 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED 
Regd. Office : Fortis Hospital, Sector 62, Phase – VIII, Mohali – 160062 
Tel : 0172-5096001, Fax : 0172-5096221, CIN : L85110PB1996PLC045933 
Fortis Healthcare Limited  
Tower-A, Unitech Business Park, Block-F, 
South City 1, Sector – 41, Gurgaon, 
Haryana – 122 001 (India) 
Tel  
 
: 0124 492 1033 
Fax 
 
: 0124 492 1041 
Emergency 
: 105010 
Email 
 
: secretarial@fortishealthcare.com 
Website 
: www.fortishealthcare.com 
 
 
 
FHL/SEC/2025-26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          July 14, 2025 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Bandra East, Mumbai – 400 051  
 
Scrip Symbol: FORTIS 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 051 
 
Scrip Code:532843 
 
Sub: 
Notice convening the 29th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
This is to inform that the 29th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company will be held on 
Monday, August 11, 2025 at 14:00 hours (IST) through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual 
Means in accordance with the applicable circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India. 
 
The Company has fixed Friday, July 04, 2025 as the cut-off date to determine the eligibility of 
shareholders to whom notice of 29th AGM and Annual Report will be sent.  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) and 53(2) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed herewith the Notice of 29th 
AGM along with the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2024-25 and other 
Statutory Reports including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’), which is 
being sent through electronic mode to those Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the 
Company/Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (‘RTA’)/Depository Participant(s) (‘DPs’). 
 
In addition, pursuant to Regulation 36(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations, letter containing the Company’s 
weblink to access the Annual Report of FY 2024-25 is being sent through ordinary post to those 
Members whose email addresses are not registered with the Company/ RTA/ DPs.  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 44 of SEBI Listing Regulations, Company is providing facility for remote e-
voting to its members as per the below schedule of events relating to AGM: -  
 
Event 
Day and Date 
Time 
Record date for payment of dividend 
Friday, July 25, 2025 
Not Applicable 
Cut-off date to determine the eligibility of the 
shareholders to cast their votes on AGM 
resolutions 
Monday, August 04, 2025 Not Applicable 
Commencement of e-Voting 
Wednesday, August 06, 
2025 
9.00 A.M (IST) 
End of e-Voting 
Sunday, August 10, 2025 
5.00 P.M (IST) 
Annual General Meeting 
Monday, August 11, 2025 2.00 P.M (IST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED 
Regd. Office : Fortis Hospital, Sector 62, Phase – VIII, Mohali – 160062 
Tel : 0172-5096001, Fax : 0172-5096221, CIN : L85110PB1996PLC045933 
Fortis Healthcare Limited  
Tower-A, Unitech Business Park, Block-F, 
South City 1, Sector – 41, Gurgaon, 
Haryana – 122 001 (India) 
Tel  
 
: 0124 492 1033 
Fax 
 
: 0124 492 1041 
Emergency 
: 105010 
Email 
 
: secretarial@fortishealthcare.com 
Website 
: www.fortishealthcare.com 
 
The Annual Report and the AGM Notice is also uploaded on the Company’s website at 
www.fortishealthcare.com  
 
This is for your information and records. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours Sincerely, 
For Fortis Healthcare Limited  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Satyendra Chauhan 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
 
 
M. No. – A14783 
Encl: as above 
SATYENDRA 
CHAUHAN
Digitally signed by 
SATYENDRA 
CHAUHAN 
Date: 2025.07.14 
14:55:06 +05'30'
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
CIN: L85110PB1996PLC045933
Registered Office: Fortis Hospital, Sector 62, Phase – VIII, Mohali, Punjab, India - 160062
Tel.: +91-172-5096001, Fax: +91-172-5096221
Email: secretarial@fortishealthcare.com, Website: www.fortishealthcare.com
NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that the Twenty Ninth (29th) Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of Fortis Healthcare Limited 
will be held on Monday, August 11, 2025 at 14:00 hours 
(IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio-Visual 
Means (“OAVM”), to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS: -
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial 
Statements (both Standalone and Consolidated) of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and 
the Auditors thereon.
2.	
To declare final dividend of ₹ 1/- (Rupee One) per equity 
share, for the financial year ended March 31, 2025. 
3.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Tomo Nagahiro (DIN-
10074111), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers his candidature for re-appointment.
4.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Lim Tsin Lin (DIN- 
10118906), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers his candidature for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: -
5.	
Ratification of Remuneration to M/s. Jitender, 
Navneet & Co., (Firm Registration No.: 000119), Cost 
Auditors for Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time 
being in force) and the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, and as per the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee and the Board of Directors, remuneration up 
to ₹ 2,95,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Ninety Five Thousand 
only) plus applicable taxes and reimbursement of out-
of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the cost 
audit, being paid to M/s. Jitender, Navneet & Co., (Firm 
Registration No.: 000119), Cost Auditors, to conduct the 
audit of the cost records of the Company, for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, be and is hereby ratified and 
confirmed.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors (which 
term includes a duly constituted Committee of the Board 
of Directors) be and are hereby authorized to do all such 
acts, deeds, matters and things as may be considered 
necessary, desirable and expedient to give effect to this 
Resolution and / or otherwise considered by them to be in 
the best interest of the Company.”
6.	
To Appoint and fix the Fees of M/s. Neelam Gupta & 
Associates, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration No. 
S2006DE086800) as Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing from 
Financial Year April 1, 2025 to March 31, 2030
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”) as amended from time to time read with 
the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“The Act”) & Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
including any amendment, modification or variation 
thereof for the time being in force and as per the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board 
of Directors, M/s. Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company 
Secretaries (Firm Registration No. S2006DE086800), who 
is a peer reviewed Company Secretary in practice and 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
1
submitted her consent to act as Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company, be and are hereby appointed as the Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company, for a term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years commencing from Financial Year April 1, 2025 to 
March 31, 2030, to undertake secretarial audit of the 
	
Company, on such fees as may be mutually agreed between 
the Board of Directors and the Secretarial Auditors and as 
mentioned in the explanatory statement.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors (which 
term includes a duly constituted Committee of the Board 
of Directors) be and are hereby authorized to do all such 
acts, deeds, matters and things as may be considered 
necessary, desirable and expedient to give effect to this 
Resolution and / or otherwise considered by them to be in 
the best interest of the Company.”
By Order of the Board
For Fortis Healthcare Limited
Sd/-
Satyendra Chauhan
Date: May 20, 2025
Company Secretary
Place: Gurugram
Membership No. A14783
NOTES:
1.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), setting out material 
facts concerning the business under item no 5 and 6 
forms part of this Notice. Further, information as required 
to be detailed/ disclosed for item no. 3 and 4, as required 
under the Secretarial Standards 2 on General Meeting (SS-
2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations”) forms an 
integral part of this notice. The relatives of Mr. Tomo 
Nagahiro and Mr. Lim Tsin Lin, Non-Executive Non- 
Independent Directors, may be deemed to be interested in 
the resolution set out at Item Nos. 3 and 4 of this Notice 
to the extent of their shareholding interest, if any, in the 
Company. Save and except the above, none of the other 
Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel of the Company/ 
their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the Ordinary Business set out 
under Item No. 3 and 4 of this Notice, however, Dr. Prem 
Kumar Nair, Mr. Dilip Kadambi, Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar 
and Mr. Ashok Pandit are the Nominee Directors of 
Northern TK Venture Pte. Ltd. (Promoter of the Company).
2.	
General instructions for accessing and participating in the 
29th AGM through VC/OAVM Facility and voting through 
electronic means including remote e-Voting:
	
a.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), vide its 
General Circular No. 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020 
read with the subsequent circulars issued from 
time to time, the latest one being General Circular 
No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 2024 (“MCA 
Circulars”) read with the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“SEBI”) circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020 and 
the latest one being SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/
CIR/2024/133 dated October 3, 2024 (“SEBI 
Circular”), has allowed the Companies to conduct 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) through Video 
Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio-Visual Means 
(OAVM) till September 30, 2025. 
	
	
Accordingly, the 29th AGM of the Company is being 
conducted through VC/ OAVM facility, without the 
physical presence of members at a common venue. 
The deemed venue for the 29th AGM shall be the 
Registered Office of the Company.
	
b.	
As per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 which came into effect from December 12, 
2024 and various MCA circulars, the requirement 
to send proxy forms is not applicable to general 
meetings held only through electronic mode. As this 
AGM would be conducted through VC / OAVM, 
the requirement to provide facility for appointment 
of Proxy by the Members is not applicable. Hence, 
the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip including Route 
Map are not annexed to this Notice.
	
	
However, in pursuance of Section 112 and Section 
113 of the Act, representatives of the Corporate 
Members may be appointed for the purpose of 
voting through remote e-Voting, for participation in 
29th AGM through VC/ OAVM Facility and e-Voting 
during 29th AGM.
	
c.	
In line with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the 
Notice of 29th AGM will be available on the website of 
the Company at www.fortishealthcare.com, on the 
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
2
website of BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com, on the 
website of National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at www.nseindia.com and also on the website of 
NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com. The Company will 
also publish an advertisement in the newspaper 
containing details of the AGM and other relevant 
information for Members viz. manner of registering 
email ID, Cut-off date for e-voting, Record date for 
payment of dividend etc. 
	
d.	
NSDL will be providing facility for voting through 
remote e-Voting, for participation in 29th AGM 
through VC/OAVM Facility and e-Voting during 
29th AGM. For this purpose, the Company has 
entered into an agreement with National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL) for facilitating voting 
through electronic means, as the authorised agency. 
The facility of casting votes by a member using 
remote e-Voting system as well as venue voting on 
the date of the AGM will be provided by NSDL.
	
e.	
Members may join 29th AGM through VC/OAVM 
Facility by following the procedure as mentioned 
below which shall be kept open for the Members 
from 13:30 p.m. IST i.e. 30 minutes before the time 
scheduled to start the 29th AGM.
	
f.	
Members may note that the VC/OAVM Facility, 
provided by NSDL, allows participation of upto 
2,500 Members on a first-come-first-served basis. 
The large shareholders (i.e. shareholders holding 
2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Auditors, 
Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel, the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, 
the Risk Management Committee, the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and the Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee etc. can attend 29th AGM 
without any restriction on account of first-come-first-
served principle.
	
g.	
Attendance of the Members participating in 29th 
AGM through VC/OAVM Facility shall be counted for 
the purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 
103 of the Act.
	
h.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of 
the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended), Secretarial Standard on General Meetings 
(SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India (“ICSI”) and Regulation 44 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations read with MCA Circulars and SEBI 
Circulars, the Company is providing remote e-Voting 
facility to its Members in respect of the business to 
be transacted at 29th AGM and facility for those 
Members participating in 29th AGM to cast vote 
through e-Voting system during 29th AGM.
	
i.	
SEBI vide Circular no. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on 
August 04, 2023) has specified that a shareholder 
shall first take up his/her/their grievance with the 
listed entity by lodging a complaint directly with 
the concerned listed entity and if the grievance 
is not redressed satisfactorily, the shareholder 
may, in accordance with the SCORES guidelines, 
escalate the same through the SCORES 2.0 portal in 
accordance with the process laid out therein. Only 
after exhausting all available options for resolution 
of the grievance, if the shareholder is not satisfied 
with the outcome, he/she/they can initiate dispute 
resolution through the Online Dispute Resolution 
(“ODR”) Portal. Shareholders are requested to take 
note of the same.
	
	
The aforesaid SEBI Circular can be viewed on the 
following 
link 
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/
drupal-data/2023-09/Online%20Dispute%20
Redressal.pdf
3.	
Instructions for Members for Remote e-Voting are as 
under:
	
The Remote e-Voting period begins on Wednesday, 
August 06, 2025 at 9:00 A.M. and ends on Sunday, 
August 10, 2025 at 5:00 P.M. The Remote e-Voting 
module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. 
The Members, whose names appear in the Register 
of Members / Beneficial Owners as on the record date 
(cut-off date) i.e. Monday, August 04, 2025, may cast 
their vote electronically. The voting right of shareholders 
shall be in proportion to their share in the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date, being 
Monday, August 04, 2025 and the person who is not 
a Member as on the cut-off date should treat this 
Notice for information purposes only.
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
3
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 09, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id in their demat accounts in 
order to access e-Voting facility.
	
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat mode with NSDL.
1.	
For OTP based login you can click on  https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., 
Verification code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/mobile 
number and click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL 
Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting 
service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting 
during the meeting.
2.	
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the 
“Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section , this will 
prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, 
you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access 
to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click 
on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed 
to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
3.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.
nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
4.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home 
page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User 
ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a 
Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be 
redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
4
5.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual Shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat mode with CDSL
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any 
further authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user, your 
existing my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by 
company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the 
e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting 
service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on 
registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. 
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the 
e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the system 
of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode) 
login 
through their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository 
site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting 
during the meeting.
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
5
	
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending 
a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 
1800-21-09911
	
B)	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
	
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section.
	
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on 
the screen.
	
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you 
can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
	
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below: -
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a)	
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your 
user ID is IN300***12******.
b)	
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user 
ID is 12**************
c)	
For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the company.
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 then user ID 
is 101456001***
	
	
5.	
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can user your existing password to login and cast your vote.
	
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was 
communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
6
	
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
	
•	
If your email ID is registered in 
your demat account or with the 
company, your ‘initial password’ is 
communicated to you on your email 
ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the 
email and open the attachment i.e. 
a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The 
password to open the .pdf file is your 
8 digit client ID for NSDL account, 
last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL 
account or folio number for shares 
held in physical form. The .pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
	
•	
If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned below 
in process for those shareholders 
whose 
email 
ids 
are 
not 
registered.
	
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received 
the “Initial password” or have forgotten your 
password:
	
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?” 
(If you are holding shares in your demat 
account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
b)	
Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password 
by aforesaid two options, you can send a 
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning 
your demat account number/folio number, 
your PAN, your name and your registered 
address etc.
	
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the 
votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the 
check box.
	
	
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
a.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all 
the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares 
and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active 
status.
b.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed 
under “Join Meeting”.
c.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
d.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent/
for or dissent/against, verify/modify the number of shares 
for which you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” 
and also “Confirm” when prompted.
e.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” 
will be displayed.
f.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by 
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
g.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not 
be allowed to modify your vote.
h. 	
Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall 
choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat 
account.
GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR SHAREHOLDERS
1.	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF / 
JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution / Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorised signatory(ies) who are authorised to vote, to 
the Scrutinizer by e-mail to magarwalandco@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in and secretarial@
fortishealthcare.com. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board 
Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by 
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
7
clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-Voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details / Password?” or “Physical 
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password.
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no.: 
022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, 
Senior Manager, NSDL at evoting@nsdl.co.in
4.	
Process for those shareholders whose e-mail ids are 
not registered with the depositories for procuring 
user id and password and registration of e-mail ids 
for e-Voting for the resolutions set out in this notice:
	
a.	
In case shares are held in physical mode, members are 
requested to provide duly filled and signed form ISR-1, 
Folio No., scanned copy of the share certificate (front 
and back), PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN 
card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) by email to secretarial@fortishealthcare.com
	
b.	
In case shares are held in Demat mode, members 
are requested to register/ update their email address 
with their respective DPs.
	
c.	
Alternatively shareholder / members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user 
id and password for e-Voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
	
d.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 09, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are required to update 
their mobile number and email ID correctly in their 
demat account in order to access e-Voting facility.
5.	
The Instructions for members for e-Voting on the 
day of the 29th Annual General Meeting are as under:
	
a.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM 
is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-Voting.
	
b.	
Only those Members / shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and 
who have not casted their vote on the Resolutions 
through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not 
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote 
through e-Voting system in the AGM.
	
c.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting 
will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they 
will not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
	
d.	
In case of any query and/ or grievance, in respect of 
voting by electronic means, members may refer to 
the Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and 
e-Voting user manual available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022-
4886 7000 or send an e-mail to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, 
Senior Manager, NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com.
6.	
Instructions for members for  attending  the  29th 
Annual General Meeting through VC/OAVM are as 
under:
	
a.	
Members will be provided with a facility to attend 
the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access by following 
the steps mentioned above for Access to NSDL 
e-Voting system. After successful login, you can see 
link of “VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join General 
meeting” menu against company name. You are 
requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed under 
Join General Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM 
will be available in Shareholder / Member login where 
the EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note 
that the members who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID 
and Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice 
to avoid last minute rush.
	
b.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
8
	
c.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera 
and use Internet with a bandwidth to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
	
d.	
Please note that Members connecting from mobile 
devices or tablets or through laptops etc connecting via 
mobile hotspot, may experience Audio / Video loss due 
to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid technical glitches.
	
e.	
Members can submit questions in advance with 
regard to the financial statements or any other 
matters, from their registered email address by 
mentioning their name, DP ID-Client ID, folio number 
and mobile number, on the Company’s email address 
at secretarial@fortishealthcare.com. Members can 
submit their questions from Monday, July 21, 2025 
to Thursday, August 7, 2025.
	
f.	
Members who would like to express their views or 
ask questions during the AGM may get registered 
themselves by sending an e-mail from their registered 
e-mail id at secretarial@fortishealthcare.com. by 
mentioning their name, folio no./ DP ID & Client ID, 
shareholding and mobile no. The speaker registration 
will be open from Monday, July 21, 2025 to Thursday, 
August 7, 2025. Only those members who are 
registered as speakers will be allowed to express their 
views or ask questions. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of questions and number 
of speakers depending upon availability of time as 
appropriate for smooth conduct of the AGM.
	
g.	
Shareholders who will participate in the AGM through 
VC/OAVM can also pose question / feedback through 
question box option. Such questions by the Members 
shall be taken up during the meeting or shall be 
replied suitably, after the meeting by the Company.
	
h.	
Institutional Investors who are Members of the 
Company, are encouraged to attend and vote in the 
29th AGM through VC/OAVM Facility.
7.	
Other Guidelines for Members:
	
a.	
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion 
to their share in the paid up equity share capital of 
the Company as on the cut-off date i.e. Monday, 
August 04, 2025.
	
b.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-
individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes member of the Company 
after the notice is sent through e-mail and holding 
shares as of the cut-off date i.e. Monday, August 
04, 2025, may obtain the login ID and password by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or Issuer / 
RTA. However, if you are already registered with 
NSDL for remote e-Voting, then you can use your 
existing user ID and password for casting your vote. 
If you forgot your password, you can reset your 
password by using “Forgot User Details / Password” 
or “Physical User Reset Password” option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com or call at 1800 1020 990 
and 1800 22 44 30. In case of Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode who acquire shares 
of the Company and become a Member of the 
Company after sending of the Notice and holding 
shares as of the cut-off date i.e. Monday, August 04, 
2025 may follow steps mentioned in the Notice of 
the AGM under “Access to NSDL e-Voting system”.
	
c.	
A person, whose name is recorded in the Register 
of Members or in the Register of Beneficial Owners 
maintained by depositories as on the Cut-off date 
shall only be entitled to avail the facility of remote 
e-Voting or casting vote through e-Voting system 
during the Meeting and the person who is not a 
Member as on the cut-off date should treat this 
Notice for information purposes only.
	
d.	
Mr. Mukesh Agarwal (C.P. No. 3851) of M/s Mukesh 
Agarwal & Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, 
has been appointed as the Scrutiniser to scrutinize 
remote e-Voting process and casting vote through 
e-Voting system during the Meeting in a fair and 
transparent manner.
	
e.	
During 29th AGM, the Chairman shall, after response to 
the questions raised by the those members who have 
registered themselves as the speaker shareholders, 
formally propose to the Members participating 
through VC/OAVM Facility to vote on the resolutions 
as set out in the Notice of the AGM and announce 
the start of the casting of vote through the e-Voting 
system. After the Members participating through VC/
OAVM Facility, eligible and interested to cast votes, 
have cast the votes, the e-Voting will be closed.
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
9
	
f.	
The Scrutiniser shall after the conclusion of e-Voting 
at the 29th AGM, first download votes cast at the 
AGM and thereafter unblock votes cast through 
remote e-Voting and shall make a consolidated 
Scrutiniser’s Report of total votes cast in favour or 
against, and whether resolution(s) has been carried 
or not, and such Report shall then be sent to the 
Chairman or a person authorised by him, within 
two working days from the conclusion of 29th AGM, 
who shall then countersign and declare the result of 
voting forthwith.
	
g.	
The Results declared along with the Report of the 
Scrutiniser shall be placed on the website of the 
Company at www.fortishealthcare.com and on 
the website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com 
immediately after declaration of Results by the 
Chairman or a person authorised by him. The results 
shall also be immediately forwarded to the BSE 
Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
8.	
Pursuant to the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the 
Notice of 29th AGM along with the Annual Report for 
the year 2024-25 is being sent by electronic mode to only 
those Members whose e-mail ids are registered with the 
Company / Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (RTA) or the 
Depository Participants (DPs), Additionally, the Company is 
also sending a letter to Members whose e-mail ids are not 
registered with Company/RTA/DP providing the weblink 
of Company’s website from where the Annual Report for 
financial year 2024-25 can be accessed.
	
The shareholders whose email address is not registered 
with the Company or with their respective Depository 
Participant/s, and who wish to receive the Notice of 
29th AGM and Annual Report for the year 2024-25 and 
all other communication sent by the Company and to 
participate in the AGM / procuring User ID & password for 
voting in the AGM, can get their email address registered 
by following the steps as given below:
	
a.	
In case shares are held in physical mode, members 
are requested to provide duly filled and signed form 
ISR-1, Folio No., scanned copy of the share certificate 
(front and back), PAN (self-attested scanned copy of 
PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of 
Aadhar Card) by email to secretarial@fortishealthcare.
com. 
	
b.	
For the Members holding shares in demat form, 
please update your email address through your 
respective Depository Participant/s.
9.	
Notice of 29th AGM and Annual Report for the FY 2024-
25 including therein the Audited Financial Statements for 
the year, will be available on the website of the Company 
at www.fortishealthcare.com and the website of Stock 
Exchanges at BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.nseindia.
com. The Notice of 29th AGM will also be available on the 
website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com.
10.	 To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised 
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any 
change in address or demise of any Member as soon as 
possible. Members are also advised to not leave their 
demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statement of 
holdings should be obtained from concerned Depository 
Participant and holdings should be verified from time to 
time.
11.	 (a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
has mandated submission of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN) by every participant in securities 
market. Members holding shares in electronic 
form are, therefore, requested to submit PAN to 
their Depository Participants with whom they are 
maintaining their demat accounts. Members holding 
shares in physical form can submit their PAN details 
to the Company.
	
(b)	
In compliance of SEBI Circular dated June 10, 2024, 
read with SEBI Master Circular for RTA dated May 
07, 2024, the security holders holding securities in 
physical form are hereby advised to update/ register 
their PAN, Contact Details (i.e. postal address with PIN 
and mobile no.), Bank Account Details and Specimen 
Signatures. Further, any grievances/ services request 
shall be entertained by RTA/ Company only after 
furnishing PAN and KYC Details. Further, any payment 
including dividends, interest (if any) in respect of 
folios, where PAN or KYC details are not updated, 
shall be made only through electronic mode.
	
(c)	
Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) Portal is introduced 
by SEBI vide its Master Circular SEBI/ HO/OIAE/OIAE_
IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/145 dated August 11, 2023, which 
is in addition to the existing SCORES 2.0 portal which 
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
10
can be utilized by the investors and the Company for 
dispute resolution. Please note that the investors are 
advised to initiate dispute resolution through the ODR 
portal only if the Company does not resolve the issue 
itself or it is not resolved through SCORES 2.0 portal.
12.	 In terms of the Listing Regulations, securities of listed 
companies can only be transferred in dematerialised form 
with effect from April 01, 2019. In view of the above, 
Members are advised to dematerialise shares held by them 
in physical form.
	
Electronic copy of all documents referred to in the 
accompanying Notice of 29th AGM and Explanatory 
Statement shall be available for inspection in the 
Investor Section of website of the Company www.
fortishealthcare.com
13.	 The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding maintained under Section 170 
of the Act, the Register of Contracts or arrangements in 
which directors are interested, maintained under Section 
189 of the Act and the relevant documents referred to 
in the Notice and Annual Report will be available for 
inspection electronically by the members of the Company 
during the AGM. All other documents referred to in 
the Notice and Annual Report will also be available for 
electronic inspection without payment of any fee by the 
members from the date of circulation of this notice up to 
the date of AGM i.e. Monday, August 11, 2025. Members 
seeking to inspect such documents can send an email on 
www.fortishealthcare.com
14.	 Details as required in sub-regulation (3) of Regulation 36 
of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on 
General Meeting (SS-2) of ICSI, in respect of the Directors 
seeking re-appointment at the AGM, are detailed in 
Annexure-A of the Notice of the AGM. Requisite 
declarations have been received from the Directors for 
seeking re-appointment.
15.	 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has undertaken a ‘Green 
Initiative in the Corporate Governance’ by allowing 
paperless compliance by companies. Also, the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, permits companies to send soft copies of Annual 
Report to all those shareholders who have registered 
their email address for the said purpose. Members are 
requested to support this Green Initiatives by registering 
/ updating their e-mail address for receiving electronic 
communications. The Notice for Annual General Meeting 
along with the Annual Report of the Company will 
be made available on the Company’s website : www.
fortishealthcare.com.
16.	 The dividend, as recommended by the Board of Directors, 
if declared at the meeting, will be paid within 30 days 
from the date of declaration to the Members holding 
equity shares as on the record date for the purpose of 
dividend i.e. Friday, July 25, 2025. In respect of shares 
held in dematerialized form, dividend will be paid on the 
basis of beneficial ownership as per details furnished by 
the respective depositories for this purpose. The Register 
of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company 
will be closed from Saturday, July 26, 2025 to Monday, 
August 11, 2025 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of 
payment of final Dividend for the FY 2024-25 and for the 
purpose of the 29th AGM.
17.	 Pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (“the IT Act”), dividend income is taxable in the 
hands of the members and the Company is required to 
deduct tax at source (“TDS”) from dividend paid to the 
members at rates prescribed in the IT Act. In general, to 
enable compliance with TDS requirements, members are 
requested to complete and/ or update their Residential 
Status, PAN, Category as per the IT Act with their Depository 
Participant(s) or in case shares are held in physical form, 
with the Company by sending email to the Company’s 
email address at secretarial@fortishealthcare.com.
18.	 Members are requested to note that in case the tax on 
dividend is deducted at a higher rate in absence of receipt 
of the requisite details/documents, there would still be an 
option available to file the return of income and claim an 
appropriate refund, if eligible. No claim shall lie against 
the Company for such taxes deducted.
19.	 Dividend, if any, approved by the members or declared 
by the Board of Directors of the Company from time to 
time, will be paid as per the mandate registered with the 
Company or with their respective Depository Participant(s).
20.	 Members holding shares in physical form, who have 
not updated their mandate for receiving the dividends 
directly in their bank accounts through Electronic Clearing 
Service or any other electronic means (“Electronic Bank 
Mandate”), can register their Electronic Bank Mandate 
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
11
to receive dividends directly into their bank account, by 
sending scanned copy of the following details/ documents 
to the Company at secretarial@fortishealthcare.com latest 
by Friday, July 25, 2025:
	
a)	
a signed request letter mentioning your name, folio 
number, complete address and following details 
relating to bank account in which the dividend is to 
be received:
	
	
i)	
Name and Branch  of Bank and Bank Account 
type;
	
	
ii)	
Bank Account Number allotted by your 
bank after implementation of Core Banking 
Solutions; and
	
	
iii)	
11-digit IFSC Code;
	
b)	
self attested scanned copy of cancelled cheque 
bearing the name of the member or first holder, in 
case shares are held jointly;
	
c)	
self attested scanned copy of  the PAN Card; and
	
d)	
self attested scanned copy of any document (such 
as AADHAR Card, Driving License, Election Identity 
Card, Passport) in support of the address of the 
member, as registered with the Company.
	
e)	
For the members holding shares in demat mode, 
please update your Electronic Bank Mandate through 
your Depository Participant(s).
	
	
Further, members holding shares in electronic form 
may please note that their bank details as furnished 
by the respective Depositories to the Company will 
be considered for remittance of dividends as per 
the applicable regulations of the Depositories and 
the Company will not entertain any direct request 
from such Members for change/addition/deletion in 
such bank details. Accordingly, the Members holding 
shares in Demat form are requested to update their 
Electronic Bank Mandate with their respective DPs. 
Further, please note that instructions, if any, already 
given by Members in respect of shares held in 
physical form, will not be automatically applied to 
the dividend paid on shares held in electronic form
21.	 Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
January 25, 2022 has mandated the listed companies 
to issue securities in dematerialised form only while 
processing service requests, viz. Issue of duplicate securities 
certificate; renewal/ exchange of securities certificate; 
endorsement; sub-division/splitting of securities certificate; 
consolidation of securities certificates/folios; transmission 
and transposition. Further SEBI vide its circular No. SEBI/
HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_ RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/65 dated May 
18, 2022 has simplified the procedure and standardised 
the format of documents for transmission of securities. 
Accordingly, members are requested to make service 
requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR-4 
& ISR-5, as the case may be.
22.	 SEBI vide its circular dated November 03, 2021 
(subsequently amended by circulars dated December 
14, 2021, March 16, 2023 and November 17, 2023 has 
mandated that with effect from April 01, 2024 dividend 
to shareholders holding shares in physical form shall be 
paid only through electronic mode. Such payment shall 
be made only if the folio is KYC complaint i.e. the details 
of PAN, contact details, mobile no. complete bank details 
and specimen signatures are registered.
	
In case of non-updation of PAN or Contact Details or 
Mobile Number or Bank Account Details or Specimen 
Signature in respect of physical folios, dividend / interest 
etc. shall be paid upon furnishing all the aforesaid details 
in entirety.
	
Further, in terms of SEBI Circular dated June 10, 2024, 
Non submission of ‘choice of nomination’ shall not result 
in freezing of Demat Accounts as well as Mutual Fund 
Folios. Securityholders holding securities in physical form 
shall be eligible for receipt of any payment including 
dividend as well as to lodge grievance or avail any service 
request from the RTA even if ‘choice of nomination’ is 
not submitted by these securityholders. However, existing 
investors are encouraged, in their own interest, to provide 
‘choice of nomination’ for ensuring smooth transmission 
of securities held by them.
23.	 The results on resolutions shall be declared on or before 
closing business hours i.e. 6:00 PM (IST) on Wednesday, 
August 13, 2025 at the Corporate office of the Company 
and the same along with scrutiniser’s report shall also 
be available on the website of the Company and on the 
website of NSDL and that of BSE & NSE. The resolutions 
will be deemed to be passed on the Annual General 
Meeting date subject to receipt of the requisite number of 
votes in favor of the resolutions.
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
12
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
(Pursuant to Section 102 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulation, 2015)
Item No. 5: Ratification of Remuneration to M/s. Jitender, Navneet & Co., (Firm Registration No.: 000119), Cost Auditors 
for Financial Year ended March 31, 2025
The Board of Directors of the Company, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, at their meeting held on May 20, 2025, 
approved the appointment & remuneration of M/s. Jitender, Navneet & Co., (Firm Registration No.: 000119), as the Cost Auditors of 
the Company, to conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 at a remuneration 
up to ₹ 2,95,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Ninety-Five Thousand only) plus applicable taxes and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses 
incurred in connection with such cost audit. The remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is in line with Industry benchmark.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148(3) of the Act read with Rule 14(a)(ii) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, the Members of the Company are required to ratify the remuneration being paid to the Cost Auditors. Accordingly, the 
consent of the members is sought for ratification of the remuneration being paid to the Cost Auditors for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the Company / their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially 
or otherwise, in this Resolution except to the extent of their respective shareholding, if any.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution as set out at Item No. 5 for the approval of the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
Item No. 6: To Appoint and fix the fees of M/s. Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration 
No. S2006DE086800) as Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing from 
Financial Year April 1, 2025 to March 31, 2030
In terms of the provisions of Section 204 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Act, read with Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 24A 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is required to undertake Secretarial Audit by a 
Peer Reviewed Secretarial Auditors who shall be appointed by the Members of the Company, on the recommendation of the Board 
of Directors, for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years.
Brief Profile/ Credentials: M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company Secretaries, was founded in the year 2005 and is registered 
with the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (Firm Registration No. S2006DE086800). This firm is managed by professional having 
combined experience of more than Thirty-Three years in various fields. They are primarily engaged in providing professional services 
in the field of Corporate Laws, SEBI Regulations, FEMA Regulations, including carrying out Secretarial Audit, Due Diligence Audit and 
Compliance Audit for various reputed companies and represent their clients before various government agencies, departments and 
quasi-judicial authorities. The firm is having a client committed team of Company Secretaries specializing in their respective practice 
areas. M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries is peer reviewed by the Institute of Companies Secretaries 
of India.
Basis of recommendation for Appointment: Based on the experience of the firm, capability, independent assessment, audit 
experience & evaluation of Audit work done by them in past and on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board of 
Directors, at its meeting held on May 20, 2025, subject to the approval of member of the Company, approved the appointment of 
M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration No. S2006DE086800), who is a peer reviewed Company 
Secretary in practice, as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company to undertake the Secretarial Audit, for a term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years, commencing from Financial Year April 1, 2025 to March 31, 2030.
Further, M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company Secretaries, has also submitted their consent to act as the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company and have confirmed that they fulfil the criteria as specified in clause (a) of Regulation 24A(1A) of SEBI Listing Regulations 
and further confirmed that they have not incurred any of disqualifications as specified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
13
Proposed Fees & Term of appointment: The proposed fees to be paid to M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company Secretaries, 
for the financial year 2025-26 is ₹ 4,25,000/- (Rupees Four Lakhs and Twenty-Five Thousand only) plus applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with such secretarial audit. The proposed fee is in line with the 
Industry Benchmark. For the subsequent years, the Board of Directors, if required, will determine the fees based on recommendation 
of the Audit Committee. Since, M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates had conducted the secretarial audit in the previous financial year 
accordingly there is no material change in the fees payable to such auditor in the current financial year.
Accordingly, the consent of the members is sought for approval of the appointment of M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company 
Secretaries as the Secretarial Auditors, to undertake the Secretarial Audit, for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years, commencing from 
Financial Year April 1, 2025 to March 31, 2030. 
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the Company / their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially 
or otherwise, in this Resolution except to the extent of their respective shareholding, if any.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution as set out at Item No. 6 for the approval of the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
By Order of the Board
For Fortis Healthcare Limited
Sd/-
Satyendra Chauhan
Date: May 20, 2025
Company Secretary
Place: Gurugram
Membership No. A14783
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
14
ANNEXURE- A
DETAILS OF THE DIRECTORS SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE 29TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
(Pursuant to Regulation 36 (3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 and 
Secretarial Standard - 2 issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Mr. 
Tomo 
Nagahiro 
– 
Non- 
Executive 
Non-
Independent Director (DIN: 10074111)
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin - Non- 
Executive Non-Independent 
Director (DIN: 10118906)
1.
Age
50 years
47 years 
2.
Qualification
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro holds Bachelor of Arts in Law 
from University of Tokyo, Japan; Master of Business 
Administration from Kellogg School of Management, 
Northwestern University and is U.S. Certified Public 
Accountant.
Mr. Lim Tsin-Lin is a Chartered 
Financial Analyst (CFA) and 
holds 
Master 
in 
Business 
Administration from the MIT 
Sloan 
Fellows 
Programme, 
the 
Massachusetts 
Institute 
of Technology, United States 
and Bachelor of Commerce 
and Management from Lincoln 
University, New Zealand.
3
Brief Profile/resume, Nature 
of Expertise in specific 
functional areas and 
Capabilities for the Role
Mr Tomo Nagahiro was appointed to the Board of IHH 
Healthcare Berhad (IHH) in February 2023. He was an 
alternate director on the Board of IHH from April 2019 
to January 2023.
Mr Nagahiro has been General Manager of Strategic 
Planning Department in Wellness Business Unit of Mitsui 
& Co., Ltd (Mitsui), overseeing Mitsui’s investment in IHH 
since April 2019.
He has over 26 years of working experience having 
served in multiple divisions in Mitsui, spanning from 
strategic planning, business development and operations 
management. Preceding his current appointment, he was 
seconded to MIMS Pte Ltd which is based in Singapore as 
the Chief Operating Officer from 2015 to 2018.
Prior to this, he was seconded to Parkway Pantai Limited, 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of IHH, as Assistant Vice 
President of Strategic Planning and Business Development 
where he led multiple business development projects 
from 2013 to 2015.
Appointed to the Board of 
IHH 
Healthcare 
Berhad 
in 
February 2023, Mr Lim Tsin-Lin 
is currently Head of Dana Impak 
of Khazanah Nasional Berhad 
(Khazanah). He was a key 
member of the team that set up 
Khazanah’s first foreign office 
in Beijing in 2008 and was 
subsequently appointed Head 
of China in 2017. After serving 
13 years overseas, he returned 
to Malaysia in 2021 to assume 
his current role in Khazanah. 
Prior to Khazanah, he was with 
Ernst & Young, Rating Agency 
Malaysia Bhd and ECM Libra 
Securities Sdn Bhd.
4
Experience
Over 26 years
Over 22 years 
5
Directorships held in other 
companies (excluding foreign 
companies) as on March 31, 
2025
None
None
6
Name of listed entities 
from which the person has 
resigned in the past three 
years 
None
None
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
15
S. 
No.
Particulars
Mr. 
Tomo 
Nagahiro 
– 
Non- 
Executive 
Non-
Independent Director (DIN: 10074111)
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin - Non- 
Executive Non-Independent 
Director (DIN: 10118906)
7
Memberships/ Chairmanships 
of committees of other 
Board as on March 31, 
2025 (excluding foreign 
companies)
None
None
8
Shareholding in the 
Company, including as a 
beneficial owner
As on the date of this notice, the directors who are seeking re-appointment do not hold 
any shares or convertible instrument in the Company.
9
Disclosure of Relationship 
between Directors inter-se, 
with Manager and other Key 
Managerial Personnel of the 
Company
There is no inter-se relationship between the directors who are seeking re-appointment at 
this meeting and other Directors / KMP’s of the Company.
10
Date of First Appointment on 
the Board
March 28, 2023
May 04, 2023
11
Terms and Conditions 
of Appointment or Re-
appointment
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro and Mr. Lim Tsin Lin have been appointed in terms of the provisions 
of Act and are responsible to undertake the roles and responsibilities prescribed under the 
provisions of the Act and other laws for the time being in force. In addition, they are also 
responsible to undertake the roles and responsibilities assigned by the Board from time to 
time.
12
Details of proposed 
remuneration and the 
remuneration last drawn, if 
any
Eligible for sitting fees for attending the meeting of 
Board and Committees (if member of any committee) as 
approved by the Board.
In 
line 
with 
the 
internal 
guidelines of the IHH Healthcare 
Berhad 
(“Utimate 
Holding 
Company”), 
no 
payment 
is made for sitting fees for 
attending the meeting of Board 
and Committees (if member of 
any committee).
13
No. of Board Meetings 
Attended in FY 2024-25
8
7
INFORMATION AT A GLANCE
Particulars
Details
Day, Date and time of AGM
Monday, August 11, 2025 at 2:00 P.M. (IST)
Mode
Video conference/ other audio-visual means
Final Dividend Record Date
Friday, July 25, 2025
Final Dividend Payment Date
On or before Tuesday, September 09, 2025
Cutoff Date for e-voting
Monday, August 04, 2025
E-voting start date and time
Wednesday, August 06, 2025 at 9:00 A.M. (IST)
E-voting end date and time
Sunday, August 10, 2025 at 5:00 P.M. (IST)
Speaker Registration start date 
Monday, July 21, 2025 
Speaker Registration end date 
Thursday, August 07, 2025
Last date of sending questions
Thursday, August 07, 2025
NOTICE (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
16
Particulars
Details
Name and Address and Contact details of e-voting service provider National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”)
Trade World, A wing, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills Compound, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013
Ms. Pallavi Mhatre
Senior Manager – NSDL
Contact Details:
Email ids:
pallavid@nsdl.co.in
evoting@nsdl.co.in
Helpline Nos.:
(022) 4886 7000
Name, address and contact details of Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent
M/s. KFIN Technologies Limited
Selenium Building, Tower B,
Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Hyderabad, Telangana - 500032
Contact Details:
Toll Fee No.: 1800 309 4001
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
17
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
TRANSFORMING 
LIVES,
GROWING  
TOGETHER
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Vision and Mission	
02
Values	
04
Key Performance Highlights 2025	 06
Board of Directors
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)	
08
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (ADL)	 10
Management Communique
Chairman’s Message	
12
MD & CEO’s Message (FHL)	
16
MD & CEO’s Message (ADL)	
22
Know Our Hospitals	
24
Agilus Diagnostics  
Limited Network	
27
Inspiring Trust Across the Nation
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)	
28
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (ADL)	 30
Our Journey	
32
Financial Highlights
Performance Snapshot	
34
Clinical Focus
Speciality Mix	
39
Operational Review
Business Review Summary (FHL)	
42
Business Review Summary (ADL)	 44
Key Initiatives of FY 2024-25
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)	
50
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (ADL)	 52
Contents
Board of Directors
Chairman 
Leo Puri  
(Independent Director)
Managing Director & CEO 
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Independent Directors
Indrajit Banerjee
Shailaja Chandra
Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
Non-Executive Directors
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair
Dilip Kadambi
Ashok Pandit
Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
Tomo Nagahiro
Lim Tsin Lim
Chief Financial Officer
Vivek Kumar Goyal
Company Secretary and  
Compliance Officer
Satyendra Chauhan
Auditors 
B S R & Co. LLP  
Chartered Accountants
Debenture Trustee 
Axis Trustee Services Limited
Registered Office:  
Axis House, 2nd Floor, Bombay 
Dyeing Mills Compound, Pandurang 
Budhkar Marg,  Worli, Mumbai City, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400025
Corporate Office:
The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW 29, Senapati 
Bapat Marg,  Dadar West, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra,  India, 400028 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Financials	
215
Consolidated Financials	
320
INVESTOR INFORMATION
BSE code: 532843
NSE symbol: FORTIS
AGM date: August 11, 2025
COMPANY
INFORMATION
Clinical Highlights	
54
Awards and Accolades	
56
Human Resources (FHL)	
58
Human Resources (ADL)	
60
Social Initiatives (FHL)	
62
Fortis and Agilus CSR 	
66
Social Initiatives (ADL)	
68
ESG Highlights	
70
STATUTORY REPORTS
Directors’ Report	
72
Report on Corporate Governance	
112
Business Responsibility and  
Sustainability Report	
141
Management Discussion and  
Analysis Report	
192
Telephone number: +91-22-62300451 
Email address: debenturetrustee@
axistrustee.in; compliance@
axistrustee.in
Fortis Healthcare Limited
CIN: L85110PB1996PLC045933
Registered Office: 
Fortis Hospital, Sector 62 
Phase – VIII, Mohali, Punjab-160062 
Tel.: +91-172-5096001 
Fax: +91-172-5096221 
Website: www.fortishealthcare.com
Corporate Office: 
Tower A, Unitech Business Park, 
Block-F, South City-1, Sector-41, 
Gurugram, Haryana - 122001 (India)
Registrar and Transfer Agent
KFin Technologies Limited
To be a globally respected healthcare 
organisation known for clinical 
excellence and distinctive patient care.
MISSION
To create a world-class integrated 
healthcare delivery system 
in India, entailing the finest 
medical skills combined with 
compassionate patient care.
VISION
2
3
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
VA L U E S
OWNERSHIP
TEAMWORK
PATIENT 
CENTRICITY
INNOVATION
INTEGRITY
4
5
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
KEY PERFORMANCE
HIGHLIGHTS 2025
PAT: Profit After Tax
EBITDA: Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation 
*Includes exceptional loss of ` 89.3 Crores for the year
**Basis Q4 FY24-25 annualised EBITDA
Overall tests performed by Agilus
39.2 Million
Average realisation per test
` 358
Revenue from Operations
` 7,783 Crores
EBITDA
` 1,655 Crores
Reported PAT*
` 809 Crores
Net Debt to EBITDA**
0.93x
Overall Hospital Occupancy
69%
Blood Test
6
7
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Suvalaxmi Chakraborty 
Independent Director
Indrajit Banerjee 
Independent Director
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair 
Non-Executive Director
Shailaja Chandra 
Independent Director
Dilip Kadambi 
Non-Executive Director
Leo Puri 
Independent Director, Chairman
Mehmet Ali Aydinlar 
Non-Executive Director
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi 
Managing Director & CEO
Ashok Pandit 
Non-Executive Director
Tomo Nagahiro 
Non-Executive Director
Lim Tsin Lin 
Non-Executive Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
8
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
9
Ashok Pandit 
Non Executive Director
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi 
Non-Executive Director, Chairman
Dr. Anand K. 
Managing Director & CEO
Suvalaxmi Chakraborty 
Independent Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
Indrajit Banerjee 
Independent Director
Dilip Kadambi 
Non-Executive Director
10
11
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
With growing demand 
for advanced diagnostics, 
digital health services, 
and quality hospital 
infrastructure, the 
healthcare sector 
presents strong 
opportunities 
for sustainable 
growth and 
innovation.
Dear Shareholders,
It is a privilege to address you for 
the first time as the Chairman of 
your Company – Fortis Healthcare 
Limited. I am proud to be part of 
an organisation that is recognised 
for its commitment to quality care, 
continuous improvement, and 
patient trust, serving millions of 
lives each year with compassion and 
dedication.
India’s healthcare sector is 
undergoing a remarkable 
transformation. It continues to 
be one of the most vital and 
dynamic segments of the Indian 
economy. With growing demand 
for advanced diagnostics, digital 
health services, and quality hospital 
infrastructure, the sector presents 
strong opportunities for sustainable 
growth and innovation. India’s 
rising prominence as a destination 
for affordable, high-quality medical 
tourism further reinforces its 
healthcare potential.
Several contributing factors, 
including technological 
advancements, policy reforms, 
and increased public and private 
investments, have driven sectoral 
momentum in recent years. A 
notable shift is also evident in the 
government’s proactive stance 
toward healthcare capacity building 
and digital enablement.
Among the most impactful 
developments are government-led 
initiatives aimed at strengthening 
India’s healthcare delivery ecosystem. 
These include substantial budgetary 
allocations such as ` 37,227 
crore under the National Health 
Mission. The expansion of medical 
education capacity, marked by the 
establishment of 60 new medical 
colleges and an increase in MBBS 
and postgraduate seats to over 
1,15,800 and 73,100 respectively, is 
helping address critical workforce 
shortages. Forward-looking steps 
like the proposed setup of 200 
Day Care Cancer Centres across 
districts and the scale-up of digital 
health platforms such as the 
Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission 
and e-Sanjeevani are laying a strong 
foundation for a more inclusive, 
technology-driven healthcare 
ecosystem.
Amidst this dynamic backdrop, your 
Company has remained focused on 
delivering responsible, high-quality, 
and patient-centric care. During the 
past year, Fortis made significant 
progress in infrastructure expansion, 
digital transformation, and clinical 
excellence.
Bed capacity was enhanced across 
multiple hospitals, supported by 
investments in advanced medical 
technologies, including the da 
Vinci Robotic System, MR LINAC, 
and Gamma Knife, strengthening 
our capabilities in tertiary and 
quaternary care. On the digital 
front, your Company advanced its 
transformation journey through 
the rollout of Hospital Information 
Systems (HIS) and Electronic Medical 
Records (EMR), ensuring greater 
clinical accuracy, faster access to 
information, and enhanced patient 
safety.
Through a series of strategic 
transactions, your Company also 
increased its shareholding in Agilus 
Diagnostics to 89.20%, reaffirming 
confidence in diagnostics as a vital 
pillar of integrated healthcare 
delivery.
India’s healthcare regulatory 
environment continues to evolve 
positively. Reforms such as the 
New Drugs, Medical Devices 
and Cosmetics Bill and IRDAI’s 
progressive insurance guidelines are 
enabling better access, affordability, 
and quality. Fortis continues to align 
with this shift through a robust and 
transparent governance framework 
that is both forward-looking 
and responsive to stakeholder 
expectations.
At Fortis Healthcare, strong 
governance remains the bedrock of 
our sustainable growth and long-
term value creation. Over the past 
year, the Board of Directors has 
continued to uphold its fiduciary 
duties through a structured and 
transparent approach. A robust 
Whistle Blower Policy empowers 
stakeholders to report concerns 
without fear, reinforcing our culture 
of transparency and integrity.
The Board has maintained 
constructive engagement with 
management, providing strategic 
direction while fostering a culture of 
At Fortis Healthcare, 
strong governance 
remains the bedrock 
of our sustainable 
growth and long-term 
value creation. Over 
the past year, the 
Board of Directors has 
continued to uphold its 
fiduciary duties through 
a structured and 
transparent approach.
MANAGEMENT COMMUNIQUE
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
12
13
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
In recognition of 
your trust and Fortis 
Healthcare’s sound 
financial performance, 
the Board is pleased 
to recommend a 
dividend of ` 1 per 
share, representing 
10% of the face value, 
subject to shareholder 
approval.
Management Communique
Chairman’s Message
healthy challenge. The management 
team remains receptive to feedback, 
and Board recommendations are 
taken seriously and acted upon. 
This collaborative dynamic has 
strengthened decision-making and 
ensured that execution remains 
aligned with our long-term vision 
of delivering exceptional, patient-
centric care.
Your Company remains deeply 
committed to giving back to 
society. Fortis Healthcare and Agilus 
Diagnostics have jointly undertaken 
CSR initiatives across four focus 
areas: Healthcare Access, Education 
& Skilling, Community Awareness & 
Capacity Building, and Innovation for 
Your Company remains 
deeply committed to giving 
back to society. Fortis 
Healthcare and Agilus 
Diagnostics have jointly 
undertaken CSR initiatives 
across four focus areas.
Sustainability. Flagship programmes 
such as the Apprenticeship Program, 
the upgradation of Primary Health 
Centres (PHCs), and the Whole 
School Transformation initiative 
were scaled up this year, amplifying 
impact and reach.
Equally, your Company continues to 
embed Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) principles into 
its core operations. In FY 2024–25, 
progress was made in areas such as 
energy efficiency, water governance, 
biomedical waste management, and 
workplace safety.
In recognition of your trust and 
Fortis Healthcare’s sound financial 
performance, the Board of Directors 
is pleased to recommend a dividend 
of ` 1 per share, representing 
10% of the face value, subject to 
shareholder approval. This reflects 
your Company’s confidence in its 
resilience, growth outlook, and long-
term value creation.
As we enter the next phase of 
our journey, we do so with a clear 
purpose-to make healthcare more 
accessible, compassionate, and 
future-ready. Backed by the global 
strength and credibility of IHH 
Healthcare, guided by a committed 
leadership team, and trusted by 
patients across India and beyond, 
Fortis is well-positioned to scale new 
heights.
I take this opportunity to thank 
our clinicians, nurses, paramedics, 
support teams, and every Fortisian 
for their relentless dedication. I am 
equally grateful to you, our valued 
shareholders, for your continued 
support and trust. Together, we will 
shape a healthier and more inclusive 
future for all.
Warm regards,
Leo Puri 
Chairman 
Fortis Healthcare Limited
14
15
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
MANAGEMENT COMMUNIQUE
MD & CEO’S MESSAGE
During FY 2024–25, we 
advanced significantly 
on multiple strategic
fronts. We executed 
a focused strategy of 
portfolio rationalisation 
on one hand and 
all-round capacity 
expansion on the other.
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the 
Annual Report of your Company 
for the Financial Year 2024–25. 
The strong performance reflects 
our commitment to our patients, 
shareholders, and all stakeholders. 
It is their continued confidence and 
trust that inspires every member of 
delivering sustainable value to our 
stakeholders.
Hospital Business 
Performance
Our hospital business witnessed 
robust growth underpinned 
by several key achievements. 
Revenue growth for the year was 
accompanied by an increase in 
Average Revenue Per Occupied 
Bed (ARPOB), which grew 9% over 
the corresponding previous period. 
The top six key medical specialties 
including Oncology, Neurosciences, 
Cardiac Sciences, Gastroenterology, 
Orthopaedics and Renal Sciences 
collectively contributed to the 
positive performance, with a growth 
of around 16% for the fiscal year. 
Revenues from overseas patients also 
saw significant growth, by 13% Year-
on-Year (YoY), while revenues from 
digital channels witnessed a healthy 
increase of 35.1% YoY for FY25.
Clinical Excellence
Our clinicians, as always, put up a 
strong performance, living up to 
the Fortis vision of being a ‘globally 
respected healthcare organisation 
In FY 2024-25, your 
Company delivered an 
outstanding financial 
performance, marked 
by significant revenue 
growth and improved 
profitability.
Robotic Surgeries
~ 6,200
known for clinical excellence and 
distinctive patient-centric care.’ The 
following key metrics offer greater 
insights:
Key Cardiac Procedures
67,400
Over
Radiation Therapy Patients
12,600
Over
Joint Replacements and 
Other Procedures
30,500
Over
Neuro and Spine Surgeries
~9,200
the Fortis family to deliver their best, 
every single day.
Before I proceed any further, 
I would like to extend a warm 
welcome to Mr Leo Puri, the new 
Chairman of our Board of Directors. 
Mr Puri is a visionary leader and 
financial sector veteran who has a 
distinguished career spanning over 
four decades. I am sure that Fortis 
will immensely benefit from his 
incredible experience and expertise. 
I would also like to thank Mr Ravi 
Rajagopal, who stepped down from 
the directorship of the Company 
with effect from September 30, 
2024, due to his other commitments, 
for his remarkable guidance during 
his tenure.
During FY 2024–25, we advanced 
significantly on multiple strategic 
fronts. We executed a focused 
strategy of portfolio rationalisation 
on one hand and all-round capacity 
expansion on the other. We also 
focused on elevating efficiency 
through the adoption of high-
end medical technology and 
the optimisation of operational 
processes across the network. 
Together, these initiatives 
contributed meaningfully to your 
Company’s excellent performance 
this year.
Financial Performance
In FY 2024-25, your Company 
delivered an outstanding financial 
performance, marked by significant 
revenue growth and improved 
profitability. Consolidated revenue 
from operations stood at ` 7,783 
Crores, reflecting a notable increase 
of 12.9% over the previous fiscal 
year. Your Company’s consolidated 
EBITDA stood at ` 1,655 with a 
healthy margin of 21.3%, which 
was clearly a result of improved 
operational efficiency and prudent 
cost management. Profit After 
Tax amounted to ` 809 Crores, 
underscoring our commitment to 
These outcomes underscore our 
ongoing investment in advanced 
clinical programs, cutting-edge 
technology, and multidisciplinary 
care, all of which have contributed 
to elevating patient outcomes and 
institutional trust.
All-round Growth & 
Expansion
Fortis continued to expand bed 
capacity at its existing facilities, 
strengthen its diagnostic and 
therapeutic capabilities by acquiring 
high tech medical equipment and 
launch high-impact clinical programs 
across its network. For instance, 
Fortis Nagarbhavi, Bengaluru, was 
16
17
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Management Communique
MD & CEO’s Message
Our 350-bed Manesar facility, 
which was acquired in FY24, 
was commissioned and 
began operations during the 
year with an initial 90 beds. 
Overall, we added 200 beds 
across key facilities in FY25.
therapy - especially beneficial for 
treating soft-tissue cancers.
	
Fortis Mohali commissioned 
the Elekta Versa HD with SGRT, 
offering enhanced precision in 
radiation oncology.
	
Robotic surgery units were 
operationalised at Cunningham 
Road, Okhla Road, and Vasant 
Kunj, strengthening our 
capabilities in minimally invasive 
procedures.
	
Fortis Faridabad introduced 
Intraoperative Neuro Navigation 
Technology to enable safer, more 
effective treatment of complex 
neurosurgical cases.
As part of our broader strategy, 
we introduced advanced clinical 
programs that reflect our focus on 
innovation, multidisciplinary care, 
and improved patient outcomes. 
These initiatives strengthen Fortis’ 
position as a centre of excellence 
and bring world-class treatments 
closer to our patients.
Electronic Medical Records
We made significant strides in our 
digital transformation journey 
with the continued rollout of 
Electronic Medical Records (EMR) 
across 15 hospitals in our network. 
This initiative marks a crucial shift 
towards a more integrated and data-
driven approach to patient care.
The EMR system, which digitally 
captures and stores patients’ 
complete medical history, enhances 
clinical decision-making, streamlines 
treatment protocols, and improves 
patient safety. In addition to 
these clinical benefits, EMRs 
enable seamless data portability 
and interoperability across Fortis 
hospitals, ensuring continuity of 
care, operational efficiency, and 
better health outcomes.
Following the successful 
implementation of the Outpatient 
module, we have now commenced 
the rollout of the Inpatient (IP) 
module, further reinforcing our 
commitment to building a digitally 
empowered, future-ready healthcare 
ecosystem.
Divestment of Richmond 
Road Facility
In December 2024, Fortis Healthcare 
divested the business operations of 
Richmond Road facility in Bangalore. 
These divestments, including the 
earlier divestments of the Malar 
facility in February 2024 and the 
Vadapalani facility in July 2023, are 
strategic decisions that are part of 
your Company’s broader portfolio 
rationalisation strategy.
Acquisition of Hospital in 
Jalandhar
In a significant strategic move 
to strengthen our footprint in 
Punjab, Fortis Healthcare through 
its wholly owned subsidiary in 
February 2025, signed definitive 
agreements to acquire the 228-bed 
Shrimann Superspecialty Hospital 
in Jalandhar. Additionally, the 
deal comprises an adjoining land 
parcel to support future expansion 
plans. The all-cash transaction is 
valued at approximately ` 462 
crores (excluding stamp duty and 
other regulatory charges) and will 
be subject to customary closing 
adjustments as stipulated in the 
agreement.
This acquisition aligns with our long-
term growth strategy of expanding 
into high-potential geographies 
and delivering advanced, accessible 
healthcare to a broader population 
base.
Brand
On 25th March 2025, the Hon’ble 
Delhi High Court confirmed that 
Fortis Healthcare Limited has 
officially purchased the ‘Fortis’ brand 
through a public auction held on 
21st December 2024, for a total 
amount of ` 200 Crores, which has 
been fully paid.
Subsequently, on 21st April 2025, 
the Joint Registrar (Judicial) of the 
Delhi High Court issued a Certificate 
of Sale, formally declaring Fortis 
Healthcare Limited as the rightful 
owner of the ‘Fortis’ brand and 
As part of our 
broader strategy, we 
introduced advanced 
clinical programs 
that reflect our 
focus on innovation, 
multidisciplinary care, 
and improved patient 
outcomes.
transformed into 92-bed multi-
speciality tertiary care facility. A 
10-bed Liver Transplant ICU, a 17-bed 
Neurosurgery ICU and a 16-bed 
Dialysis Block were launched at 
Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh. Our 
350-bed Manesar facility, which was 
acquired in FY24, was commissioned 
and began operations during the 
year with an initial 90 beds. Overall, 
we were able to add 200 beds across 
key facilities, including Anandapur, 
Shalimar Bagh and Manesar among 
others, in FY25. In the current 
financial year, we look forward 
to adding up to 1,000 beds in 
existing facilities as well as through 
acquisitions.
Capital expenditure during the 
financial year stood approximately 
` 700 Crores. The funds were largely 
spent on future bed expansions 
and to acquire some of the latest 
medical equipment enabling greater 
precision in treatment and diagnosis. 
Notable highlights include:
	
Fortis Memorial Research 
Institute, Gurugram (FMRI) 
became the first hospital in 
South Asia to introduce the 
Gamma Knife Esprit, setting 
new benchmarks in non-invasive 
brain tumour treatment.
	
FMRI also launched MR Linac 
Technology, enabling real-
time imaging during radiation 
18
19
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
In a significant strategic move, 
Fortis Healthcare, in February 
2025, signed definitive 
agreements to acquire the 228-
bed Shrimann Superspecialty 
Hospital in Jalandhar.
Management Communique
MD & CEO’s Message
trademarks, with all the attendant 
rights and liabilities thereof.
Stake Increase in Agilus 
Diagnostics
As part of its strategic vision to 
the previous year. The new brand 
is being well accepted and gaining 
prominence; placing the business in 
a better position to drive business 
expansion and enhance performance 
metrics. This transformation 
aligns with our growth strategy, 
reinforcing our commitment to 
delivering innovative and high-
quality healthcare solutions.
Dividend Announcement
The Board of Directors of Fortis 
Healthcare Limited is pleased to 
recommend a dividend of ` 1 per 
share, representing 10% of the 
face value, subject to shareholder 
approval. This payout reaffirms our 
commitment to creating long-term 
value for our shareholders and 
underscores our confidence in the 
Company’s financial strength and 
outlook. 
Awards & Accolades
It is deeply satisfying to note that 
our steadfast commitment towards 
patients is being recognised, as 
evidenced by the several prestigious 
awards won this year. While these 
recognitions reinforce our strong 
credentials and establish us as a 
leader in the Indian healthcare 
space, we acknowledge that it is 
really a manifestation of the trust 
we enjoy from our patients. Some of 
the key recognitions that came our 
way this year include the multiple 
awards under various categories 
won by Fortis hospitals at the 
annual conference of Consortium of 
Accredited Healthcare Organisation 
(CAHOCON 2024). Six Fortis hospitals 
were ranked amongst top 100 
hospitals in Newsweek’s ‘Best 
Specialised Hospitals – Asia Pacific 
2024’ list. Several Fortis hospitals also 
won awards in various categories 
at the Association of Healthcare 
Providers – India (AHPI) Healthcare 
Excellence Awards 2025.
In addition, I am proud to share 
that Fortis Hospital, Mulund, 
has received the prestigious 
JCI re-accreditation for the 7th 
consecutive time. Fortis Mulund 
is only the third hospital in the 
country to secure seven consecutive 
re-accreditations.
CSR Update
As a responsible and committed 
corporate citizen, we have been 
proactively doing our bit to be a 
catalyst for change and bring about 
improvement in the lives of as many 
as we can. In the fiscal year 2024–
25, Fortis Healthcare and Agilus 
Diagnostics deployed ` 14.77 crores 
of CSR investment in initiatives 
across the four foundation pillars of 
Healthcare Access, Education and 
Skilling, Community Awareness and 
Capacity Building, and Innovation 
for Sustainability. These programs 
were designed and implemented 
through long-term partnerships with 
reputed NGOs, industry associations, 
and implementation partners to 
ensure scale, rigor, and replicability.
Building on the foundational success 
of previous years, three flagship 
initiatives – the Fortis and Agilus 
Apprenticeship Program, the Whole 
School Transformation initiative, 
and the PHC Upgradation program – 
were expanded in the current year.
Gratitude
Financial Year 2024-25 has been a 
momentous year in our journey. Our 
success, without a doubt, reflects the 
constant encouragement we have 
received from our shareholders. I am 
grateful to all our shareholders for 
their continued and wholehearted 
support. I would like to thank our 
Board members for their exemplary 
stewardship. I also express my sincere 
gratitude and heartiest appreciation 
for all our clinicians, nurses and 
other staff members, who are the 
real architects of our success. 
As we move forward, we remain 
focused on our mission – to 
deliver world class, patient centric 
healthcare and to continuously raise 
the bar in clinical excellence and 
innovation.
Best, 
Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi 
MD & CEO 
Fortis Healthcare Limited
It is deeply 
satisfying to note 
that our steadfast 
commitment towards 
patients is being 
recognised, as 
evidenced by the 
several prestigious 
awards won this year.
strengthen its position in the 
diagnostics sector, Fortis Healthcare 
has increased its shareholding in 
Agilus Diagnostics Ltd., its material 
subsidiary, to 89.20%. This follows 
a series of transactions executed in 
December 2024 and January 2025, 
through which Fortis acquired 
the entire 31.52% equity stake 
previously held by key private equity 
investors - International Finance 
Corporation (IFC), NYLIM Jacob 
Ballas India Fund III LLC (NJBIF), and 
Resurgence PE Investments Ltd.
Diagnostics Business 
Highlights
Agilus remains the largest diagnostic 
service provider in the country with 
an extensive accredited network. 
With over 400 labs, 4,100+ customer 
touchpoints, and a growing presence 
in tier-2/3 cities, we continue to 
make high-quality diagnostics 
accessible to all. This year, Agilus 
consolidated its revenues from 
various segments and improved 
EBITDA margin from 16.7% in FY24 
to 19.5% in FY25. Despite industry 
challenges, Agilus strengthened 
its test menu, expanded into new 
markets and optimised efficiencies, 
positioning it well for sustainable 
growth.
For the financial year 2024-25, Agilus 
reported revenues of ` 1,407 Crore 
compared to ` 1,372 Crore reported 
during the Financial Year 2023-24, a 
growth of 3%. The business served 
over 16.3 million patients during the 
year and it undertook 39.2 million 
tests during the year compared to 
38.8 million tests performed in FY24.
A major highlight of this year was 
the comprehensive brand promotion 
initiative, which aimed to enhance 
the Brand’s identity and improve 
engagement with patients, partners 
and other stakeholders. Notably, 
the initiative follows the successful 
rebranding exercise executed in 
20
21
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
MANAGEMENT COMMUNIQUE
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED 
MD & CEO’S MESSAGE
A major highlight of this year 
was our comprehensive brand 
promotion initiative, which 
aimed to enhance our identity 
and improve engagement 
with patients, partners, and 
other stakeholders further to 
our rebranding exercise in the 
previous year. 
improve precision and reduce 
turnaround times. These efforts are 
instrumental in positioning Agilus 
at the forefront of technological 
excellence in the diagnostics sector. 
We have relaunched our website 
and customer app with improved 
features to enhance the overall 
customer experience. 
Quality, Accessibility, and 
Financial Performance
Agilus remains the largest diagnostic 
service provider in the country with 
an extensive accredited network. 
With over 400 labs, 4,100+ customer 
touchpoints, and a growing presence 
in tier-2/3 cities, we continue to 
make high-quality diagnostics 
accessible to all.
This year, we consolidated our 
revenues from various segments and 
improved our EBITDA margin from 
16.7% in FY’24 to 19.5% in FY’25. 
Despite industry challenges, our 
proactive approach—strengthening 
our test menu, expanding into 
new markets, and optimising 
efficiencies—has positioned us well 
for sustainable growth.
Commitment to R&D and 
Future Growth
Our R&D division remains at the 
forefront of diagnostic innovation, 
focusing on next-generation 
sequencing, infectious disease 
panels, and AI-powered pathology 
solutions. Collaborations with global 
healthcare leaders have further 
strengthened our capabilities, 
ensuring that we stay ahead of 
industry trends.
Looking Ahead
As we move forward, our focus 
remains on continuous innovation, 
customer-centric services, and 
expanding our reach to serve a 
broader population. With our 
dedicated team, robust infrastructure, 
and enhanced brand identity, we 
are confident in driving sustainable 
growth and making a lasting impact 
in the healthcare industry.
Finally, I would like to express my 
gratitude to our 6,200+ strong team, 
whose dedication and passion make 
it possible to deliver our vision every 
single day. Together, we will continue 
shaping the future of diagnostics.
Regards,
Dr. Anand. K. 
MD & CEO 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
Our R&D division 
remains at the 
forefront of diagnostic 
innovation, focusing 
on next-generation 
sequencing, infectious 
disease panels, and 
AI-powered pathology 
solutions.
Dear Shareholders,
I would like to begin by expressing 
my gratitude for your continued 
trust in Agilus Diagnostics. FY24-
25 has been a year of innovation, 
strategic growth, and strengthening 
our brand identity to solidify 
our leadership in the diagnostic 
healthcare industry.
Brand Promotion
A major highlight of this year 
was our comprehensive brand 
promotion initiative, which aimed to 
enhance our identity and improve 
engagement with patients, partners, 
and other stakeholders further 
to our rebranding exercise in the 
previous year. This transformation 
aligns with our growth strategy, 
reinforcing our commitment to 
delivering innovative and high-
quality healthcare solutions.
We continued our investments in 
genomics, precision medicine, and 
AI-driven pathology, expanding 
our capabilities into whole exome 
sequencing, pharmacogenomics, and 
AI-assisted cancer diagnostics. These 
advancements reflect our mission to 
offer the most advanced and reliable 
healthcare solutions to our patients 
and doctors.
Technology and Digital 
Transformation
Our digital initiatives have 
enhanced patient engagement, 
operational efficiency, and 
diagnostic accuracy. From AI-driven 
decision support systems to the 
automation of laboratory processes, 
we are consistently working to 
22
23
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Fortis Escorts  
Heart Institute,
Okhla, New Delhi
Fortis Hospital,
Noida
Fortis Hospital,
Shalimar Bagh, New Delhi
Fortis Flt. Lt.  
Rajan Dhall Hospital, 
Vasant Kunj, New Delhi
Fortis Hospital,
Greater Noida
Fortis La Femme,
GK - II, New Delhi 
Fortis Escorts Hospital,
Faridabad
Fortis Memorial Research 
Institute, Gurugram
Fortis Hospital,
Manesar, Gurugram
SL Raheja Hospital,  
A Fortis Associate,  
Mahim, Mumbai
Fortis Hospital,
Kalyan, Mumbai
Fortis Hospital,
Mulund, Mumbai
Hiranandani Hospital, 
Vashi, (A Fortis Network 
Hospital)
National Capital Region
West Bengal
Maharashtra
Punjab
Fortis Escorts Hospital,
Amritsar
Fortis Hospital,
Mall Road, Ludhiana
Fortis Hospital,
Mohali
Fortis Hospital,
Chandigarh Road, 
Ludhiana
Fortis Hospital & 
Kidney Institute, 
Kolkata
Fortis Hospital,
Anandapur, Kolkata
Fortis Cancer Institute,
Defence Colony,  
New Delhi
Fortis C-DOC,
Nehru Place, 
New Delhi
1
4
2
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
10
11
9
3
6
5
01
7
11
8
2
10
3
9
4
2
1
1
3
2
4
2
1
2
1
3
3
4
4
1
2
KNOW OUR HOSPITALS
24
25
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Fortis Hospital,
B.G. Road, Bengaluru
Fortis Hospital,
C.G. Road, Bengaluru
This map is a generalised illustration only for the ease of the reader to understand the locations, and is not intended to be used for reference purposes. The representation of political boundaries 
and the names of geographical features/states do not necessarily reflect the actual position. The Company or any of its directors, officers or employees cannot be held responsible for any misuse or 
misinterpretation of any information or design thereof.
Fortis OP Jindal Hospital & Research Centre, Raigarh
Fortis Escorts Hospital,
Jaipur
1
2
Fortis Hospital,
Nagarbhavi, Bengaluru
3
1
1
Fortis Hospital,
Rajajinagar, Bengaluru
4
1
1
1
2
3
4
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS NETWORK
Karnataka
Chhattisgarh
Rajasthan
Agilus is also present in UAE
27
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
26
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
27 Hospitals Network
7,500+ Nurses
~4,750 
Operational Beds* (Network)
7,500+ Doctors 
(Including VC* Doctors)
*Visiting Consultants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
INSPIRING TRUST 
ACROSS THE NATION
*Including O&M beds
7,500+
28
29
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
25 States and 
5 UTs
400+ Labs
4,100  
Customer Touch Points
14,200+ 
Pick-up Points
3,600+ Tests 
and Packages 
40+ 
Accredited Labs
6,200+ 
Employees
1,000 Towns 
and Cities and over
532 Districts
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
30
31
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
IHH infused  
` 4,000 Crores in 
Nov 2018 through 
preferential 
allotment in 
FHL and became 
controlling 
shareholder with 
31.17% equity stake 
along with majority 
Board Control
Several 
transformational 
initiatives, including 
a comprehensive 
portfolio review, cost 
efficiency initiatives 
and incorporating 
an institutionalised 
governance framework 
with robust systems 
and processes were 
implemented.
FHL witnessed 
operational 
turnaround in 
FY 2019-20 with 
significant jump 
in the operating 
profitability. This 
allowed the Company 
to accelerate its 
expansion and other 
growth levers and 
begin a new journey
Operational performance 
of the company in FY 
2020-21 was impacted due 
to COVID-19 pandemic. 
However, the Company 
was able to successfully 
navigate the challenging 
environment thereby 
ensuring sustainability and 
continuity of operations 
primarily due to well-
capitalised balance sheet, 
several cost efficiency 
initiatives and a robust 
diagnostics business 
performance on account 
of high Covid 19 tests 
volumes
In April 2021, 
Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited acquired 
the balance 50% 
equity stake in 
its existing 50:50 
DDRC Agilus JV 
in Kerala and 
consolidated its 
position in the 
Kerala market 
DDRC-SRL is the 
largest organised 
player
Despite the 
impact of COVID 
during Q1 and 
Q4, FY 2021-
22 witnessed 
healthy growth 
in both the 
hospitals and 
diagnostics 
business. The 
Company 
registered its 
highest ever 
consolidated 
EBITDA of ` 
1000+ Crores in 
FY2021-22
Funds infused by IHH 
were primarily utilised 
for the acquisition 
of RHT Health Trust 
portfolio of assets. This 
enabled the Company to 
consolidate RHT assets 
and save on annualised 
clinical establishment 
fees resulting in a 
turnaround in the 
profitability as well 
as cash flows of the 
Company
Re-constituted 
Board inducts a new 
management team with 
the appointment of the 
MD & CEO and CFO in 
March and April 2019 
respectively
For the financial 
year 2022-2023, 
the operational 
performance continued 
to witness strong 
traction led by hospital 
business which saw 
higher occupancy 
and ARPOB with a 
significant 600 bps 
increase in contribution 
from surgical volumes. 
However, the diagnostic 
business witnessed 
muted performance 
due to significant 
decline in Covid 
volumes and the 
challenging industry 
environment
In April 2023, 
the company 
signed definitive 
agreements 
to acquire a 
hospital asset 
with a potential 
bed capacity 
of 350 beds in 
Manesar. The 
transaction was 
consummated in 
August 2023
Fortis signed 
definitive 
agreement in 
February 2025 to 
acquire Shrimann 
Superspecialty 
Hospital in 
Jalandhar, Punjab. 
This acquisition 
will add 228 beds 
to Company’s 
network and 
offers the 
potential to 
increase the 
facility’s total 
capacity to over 
450 beds. This 
transaction will 
allow to further 
strengthen 
Company’s 
presence 
in Punjab 
region from 
approximately 800 
beds to over 1,000 
beds.
Performance 
in FY25 was 
primarily led 
by the hospital 
business with a 
robust revenue 
growth of 14.8% 
and a healthy 
expansion in 
EBITDA margin 
of 21.1% 
resulting in a 
Consolidated PAT 
of ` 809 Crores 
for the year
FHL Board in its 
meeting held 
in May 2023 
recommended 
maiden 
dividend of ` 1 
per share (10% 
of the Face 
Value), subject 
to shareholders 
approval
In December 2024, 
the Company 
successfully 
raised ` 1,550 
Crores through 
the issuance of 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
(NCDs). 
Leveraging these 
funds, along with 
internal accruals, 
the Company 
consolidated its 
stake in Agilus 
Diagnostics Ltd. 
to 89.20% by 
acquiring 31.52% 
from Private 
Equity investors as 
on January 2025
The Company 
successfully 
acquired the 
‘Fortis’ brand 
and trademarks 
for an overall 
considerationof 
` 200 Crores in 
April 2025 
The Board 
recommended 
a dividend 
of ` 1 per 
share (10% 
of face value) 
for the third 
consecutive 
year, subject to 
shareholders’ 
approval
In FY 2023-24, 
FHL successfully 
rationalised its 
portfolio by 
divesting two loss-
making facilities in 
Chennai, enabling 
it to enhance 
its focus on key 
strategic clusters 
and improve the 
profitability of the 
Company
During the fiscal 
year 2023-2024, 
the operational 
performance 
witnessed a 
strong traction 
primarily driven 
by the hospital 
business, which 
experienced a 
notable increase 
in ARPOB of 
10.8%
1
2
Fund infusion 
significantly re-
capitalised Fortis’ 
weak balance 
sheet, lowered 
borrowing costs 
and improved 
credit ratings. 
Stronger 
liquidity enabled 
investments 
for business 
operations 
continuity and 
capex for growth
3
5
14
16
18
4
6
13
15
17
19
10
12
11
7
9
8
OUR
JOURNEY
32
33
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT 
FY 2020-21 - FY 2024-25
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
790
FY 2021-22
633
645
809
FY 2022-23*
FY 2023-24*
FY 2024-25**
673
FY 2021-22
740
842
1,096
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Consolidated Financials
PBT (Profit Before Tax) 
(Before Exceptional Items) 
(` Crores)
PAT (Profit After Tax) 
(` Crores)
*Includes exceptional gain of ` 74 Crores for the year
**Includes exceptional gain of ` 16 Crores for the year
*** Includes exceptional loss of ` 89 Crores for the year
Operating Income (` Crores)
EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, 
Depreciation and Amortisation) (` Crores)
Margin (%)
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
63%
67%
65%
69%
 1.80 
 2.01 
 2.22 
 2.42 
Hospital Business
Hospital Business Occupancy (%)
ARPOB (Average Revenue Per 
Occupied Bed) (` Crores per annum)
Diagnostics Business
No. of Patients (Mn) 
No. of Tests (Mn)
Patients
Tests
39.1
38.8
39.2
44.2
21.4
16.6
16.4
16.3
Average Realisation Per Test and  
Average realisation per Accession (`)
ARPA
ARPT
361
344
353
358
746
808
836
858
1,096
1,163
1,306
1,655
19.2%
18.5%
18.9%
21.3%
5,718
6,298
6,893
 7,783 
34
35
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT 
Q1- Q4 (FY 2024-25)
FYQ1
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
FYQ1
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
FYQ1
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
FYQ1
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
FYQ1
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
174
FYQ1*
193
254
188
FYQ2
FYQ3*
FYQ4**
230
FYQ1
321
256
290
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
Consolidated Financials
PBT (Profit Before Tax) 
(Before Exceptional Items) 
(` Crores)
PAT (Profit After Tax) 
(` Crores)
*Includes exceptional gain of ` 0.2 Crores for quarter 1 and ` 23.8 Crores for quarter 3
**Includes exceptional loss of ` 59.8 Crores for quarter 2 and ` 53.6 Crores for quarter 4
Operating Income (` Crores)
EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, 
Depreciation and Amortisation) (` Crores)
Margin (%)
FYQ1
FYQ2
FYQ3
FYQ4
67%
72%
67%
69%
2.41
2.37
2.45
2.51
Hospital Business
Hospital Business Occupancy (%)
ARPOB (Average Revenue Per 
Occupied Bed) (` Crores per annum)
Diagnostics Business
No. of Patients (Mn) 
No. of Tests (Mn)
Patients
Tests
10.4
9.6
9.6
9.6
4.0
4.4
4.0
3.9
Average Realisation Per Test and  
Average realisation per Accession (`)
ARPA
ARPT
353
357
357
365
845
846
854
890
356
448
396
455
 19.1%
22.5%
20.5%
22.7%
 1,859 
 1,988 
 1,928 
 2,007
36
37
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Clinical Governance
It is a system which makes 
a healthcare organisation 
accountable for delivering safe 
and high-quality patient care 
while continuously improving 
services.
The Fortis Clinical Governance 
framework enables Senior 
Clinicians to come together, 
collaborate, share global best 
practices, and thereby pursue 
Evidence Based Medicine.
Quality and Patient Safety 
These indicators can assess the 
performance of healthcare 
services while representing 
opportunities for improvement 
in the delivery of care. Fortis 
has been tracking Quality and 
Patient Safety indicators across 
its network hospitals since 2013 
through centrally designed 
Clinical Excellence Scorecard 
(CESC).
Antimicrobial Stewardship 
(AMS) Program
Antimicrobial resistance has been 
identified as a global emergency 
due to misuse and overuse 
of antimicrobials increasing 
potential for resistance.
Fortis was among the first to 
institutionalise Antimicrobial 
Stewardship (AMS) program to 
address the increasing challenge 
of anti-microbial resistance.
Drug Resistance Index (DRI)
It is a single, composite 
measure or index, reflecting 
the relationship between 
antimicrobial resistance and 
antimicrobial consumption.
For the past 9 years, Fortis has 
been calculating its own Drug 
Resistance Index, using it as a 
monitoring and analysis tool for 
antimicrobial consumption at our 
hospitals.
Patient Experience
Based on unsolicited patient 
feedback, we monitor and 
evaluate Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) for identifying 
improvement opportunities.
Clinical Outcomes
In India, Fortis has been a 
pioneer and at the forefront 
of this global initiative. We 
were among the first private 
healthcare service delivery chains 
to measure and report outcomes 
for various clinical procedures.
(URL: https://www.fortishealthcare.com/
clinical-outcomes-at-fortis-healthcare).
Using PROM tools and 
questionnaires, our Patient 
Experience teams continue to 
engage with patients, post-
discharge, to learn more about 
their quality of life, daily 
functioning, symptoms, and 
other aspects of well-being.
Nursing
Nursing makes up the largest 
workforce in a hospital. They 
Medical Technology and 
Infrastructure
In addition to human resources, 
technology continues to play a 
pivotal role in the functioning 
of a successful hospital. We 
continue to upgrade and expand 
our infrastructure while making 
significant investments in state-
of-the-art medical equipment 
such as Biplane Cath-labs and 3T 
MRI among others.
Fortis Memorial Research 
Institute, Gurgaon, is among the 
first hospitals to have MR-LINAC 
and Gamma Knife installed under 
one roof.
Clinical Research
At Fortis, we carry out 
Interventional trials, Real World 
Evidence studies, Investigator 
Initiated Studies, Academic 
are integral to patient care and 
play a crucial role in improving 
quality of services. At Fortis, 
we conduct extensive induction 
programs and trainings to help 
nurses develop their skills and 
knowledge.
Nursing Attrition is a significant 
problem impacting all healthcare 
organisations and patient care 
due to factors like burnout, 
inadequate staffing, and lack 
of career growth opportunities. 
Over the past year, continued 
efforts have resulted in reducing 
Nursing attrition across Fortis 
hospitals.
The Fortis Future Operational 
Leadership Development 
Program was aimed at providing 
a career growth path for 
Nurses and encourage them for 
leadership roles. The program has 
been received well with several 
nurses successfully completing 
the course and moving forward 
towards taking up greater 
responsibilities in operations/ 
administration. 
Electronic Medical Records 
(EMR)
An Electronic Medical Record 
(EMR) is a digital collection of 
health-related information.
In a phased manner Fortis is 
implementing EMR application 
in OP and IP departments. This 
would enable interoperability 
across its network hospitals; 
automate access to information 
and streamline clinician’s 
workflow.
Research projects & large public 
health research studies.
Research sites are governed 
by their Ethics Committees 
registered with Central Drugs 
Standard Control Organisation 
(CDSCO); National Accreditation 
Board for Hospitals & Healthcare 
Providers (NABH) & Department 
of Health Research (DHR).
CLINICAL FOCUS
Specialty Mix
Cardiac, 17.3%
Ortho, 8.6%
Renal, 6.9%
Neuro, 8.8%
Gastro, 5.0%
Onco, 15.5%
Pulmo, 2.9%
Gynae, 3.3%
Other IPD, 
16.6%
OPD, 13.4%
Other Operating 
Revenue, 1.9%
FY25
38
39
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Fortis delivered a stellar performance in FY25, marked by significant 
growth in revenue and profitability. We remained sharply focused on 
executing effectively across all our key strategic pillars. Major drivers 
of growth across our hospitals included addition of new beds through 
brownfield expansions, commissioning of advanced state-of-the-art 
medical equipment and rationalisation of our portfolio of hospitals. 
We observed robust revenue growth across all our core specialities. 
Additionally, we continued to focus on generating revenue through 
digital channels and international business while further while further 
strengthening of our technology infrastructure including Hospital 
Information Sustems (HIS) and Electronic Medical Records (EMR). 
Hospital Information Systems (HIS) and Electronic Medical Records 
(EMR).
40
41
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Clinical Excellence
Fortis Healthcare continues to 
solidify its position as a leader in 
specialised medical care, focusing on 
areas such as Cardiology, Oncology, 
Orthopedics, Neurosciences, and 
Renal Sciences. We have significantly 
invested in advanced technologies, 
including MR LINAC, Biplane Cath 
Lab, and C-Arm, which enhance 
our ability to provide precision-
based treatments. Our Centers 
of Excellence (CoEs) have been 
instrumental in ensuring high-
quality care, while world-first clinical 
achievements, such as the triple 
surgery performed at Fortis CG 
Road, showcase our commitment to 
innovation and medical excellence.
Growth & Expansion
In FY25, Fortis expanded its network 
through the acquisition of a new 
unit in Jalandhar, strengthening 
our presence in Punjab cluster 
and providing high-quality care to 
a broader patient base. We also 
increased the capacity of several 
existing facilities to meet the 
growing healthcare demand. As 
part of our portfolio rationalisation 
strategy, we strategically divested 
the Richmond Road unit in 
Bengaluru, ensuring a more focused, 
efficient, and future-ready network 
that aligns with our long-term goals 
and objectives.
High-Performance Teams
At Fortis, investing in our workforce 
is key to sustaining long-term 
success. In FY25, we continued to 
enhance leadership development 
and team engagement through 
various programs. Our Employee 
Engagement Survey showed an 
impressive 97% participation, 
highlighting strong employee 
involvement and satisfaction. This 
active engagement, combined with 
our focus on talent development, 
ensures we have a highly motivated 
team that is committed to delivering 
exceptional patient care and driving 
the organisation’s success.
Digital Transformation
Digital innovation remains central 
to Fortis’ mission to enhance 
patient care and operational 
efficiency. In FY25, we rolled out 
the Electronic Medical Records 
(EMR) Outpatient Module in 12 
additional facilities, bringing the 
total to 15. Additionally, the In-
patient Module was implemented 
at Fortis Manesar, further enhancing 
real-time access to patient data 
for clinicians. This transformation 
improves care coordination, patient 
safety, and overall efficiency. We 
also enhanced patient-facing digital 
platforms like the myFortis app, 
empowering patients to manage 
their healthcare more effectively. 
These technological advancements 
reflect our commitment to creating 
a seamless and patient-centric 
healthcare experience.
ESG Initiatives
Fortis remains committed to 
sustainability, with significant 
progress in optimising energy use, 
water management, and waste 
disposal across our facilities. These 
initiatives contribute to both 
environmental sustainability and 
operational cost savings. Our focus 
on ESG reflects our dedication to 
responsible resource management 
and supporting the communities we 
serve.
Fortis continued focus on clinical 
excellence, strategic growth, 
high-performance teams, digital 
transformation, and sustainability 
positions us as a leader in the 
Indian healthcare sector. We are 
excited about our prospects as we 
expand our network and further 
enhance our capabilities to deliver 
exceptional care to our patients.
42
43
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
For the financial year FY 2024-25, 
Agilus reported revenues of ` 1,407 
Crore compared to ` 1372 Crore 
reported during the Financial Year 
2023-24, a growth of 3%. Reported 
EBITDA for the year is ` 274 Crores, 
compared to ` 229 Crores in FY24. 
EBITDA margins are 19.5% and 
16.7%, respectively. The business 
served a total of over 16.3 Million 
patients during the year, compared 
to 16.4 Million during FY24. Through 
these patients (Accessions), it 
undertook 39.2 Million tests during 
the year compared to 38.8 Million 
tests performed in FY24. 
In an endeavor to go closer to the 
customer and provide services at 
their doorstep, we have increased 
our total number of touchpoints to 
more than 4100. Our B2C:B2B mix 
is 52:48 in FY25 compared to 51:49 
in FY24. The business continued to 
have a well-diversified geographical 
mix with no over-dependence on 
any region, allowing it to capitalise 
on the pan-India network optimally. 
Regional FY 2024-25 revenue 
contributions were 31% from the 
North, 21% from the West, 31% 
from the South, 13% from East, 
and 3% from International. Our 
preventive portfolio also went 
up by 13% in FY25 compared to 
previous financial year. From a 
product standpoint, the revenue 
contributions are 34% from 
specialised testing, 55% from routine 
tests, and 11% from our wellness 
portfolio.
Retail Network Expansion: 
Strengthening Accessibility 
& Growth
At Agilus, our unwavering 
commitment to expanding our 
retail network continues to 
enhance accessibility to high-quality 
diagnostic services across India. By 
leveraging strategic collaborations, 
geographic diversification, and an 
Omni channel approach, we have 
reinforced our presence in both 
metro cities and emerging markets, 
ensuring a seamless experience for 
our customers.
Over the past year, we have 
accelerated our outreach by 
adding customer touchpoints and 
expanding our direct client base 
further deepening our engagement 
with healthcare providers and 
communities. Today, our network 
comprises 400+ labs, 4,100+ customer 
touchpoints, 14,200+ Direct Points 
and a robust presence in over 25 
states and 5 union territories.
Navigating industry dynamics, 
including brand transitions and 
evolving consumer expectations, 
we have sustained our growth 
momentum through innovative 
below-the-line (BTL) initiatives, 
hyperlocal marketing, and 
strengthened partnerships with 
residential welfare associations 
(RWAs). Looking ahead, we 
remain focused on expanding into 
underserved regions, enhancing 
digital integrations, and fostering 
strategic alliances to build a more 
connected and resilient diagnostic 
ecosystem.
International Business
Agilus International Division has a 
rich history of over two decades, 
during which it has witnessed 
various market situations across 
the geographies where we 
operate globally. The International 
Operations of the Company comprise 
state-of-the-art labs in Dubai 
(100% Subsidiary), Nepal (50:50 
Joint Venture) in Kathmandu and 
Biratnagar. Agilus’s international 
network consists of 800+ direct 
clients spread across the SAARC 
region, Sub-Saharan Africa, 
Southeast Asia, CIS, Gulf, and the 
Middle East. These centres send 
samples in a temperature-controlled 
environment to Agilus Diagnostics 
Reference labs in India, which 
process the samples and provide 
reports in real-time using Agilus 
Diagnostics efficient and highly 
acclaimed and awarded IT system 
and robust logistics network. 
Alongside laboratory services, the 
Company also assists its international 
clients and partners in the planning 
and implementation of laboratory 
management services, with complete 
44
45
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
IT support through its indigenously 
developed lab management 
software - ‘CLIMS.’
We will continue our focus on 
growing our business in Asia Pacific, 
the Middle East, CIS, and Africa 
through network expansion. 
Brand & Marketing 
Initiatives – FY 2024-25
FY2024-25 was a transformative 
year for Agilus Diagnostics as we 
continued the rebranding journey 
of our 29-year-old legacy brand. The 
name ‘Agilus’—derived from ‘Agility’ 
and ‘Trust’—reflects innovation, 
enhanced customer experience, 
and credibility. The brand revamp 
introduced a new logo and color 
scheme, with blue symbolising 
trust and loyalty, and a forward 
chevron in red, yellow, and green 
representing our commitment to 
staying ahead.
Recognising the unparalleled reach 
of cricket, we strategically leveraged 
the Indian Premier League (IPL) 
2024 in April and May to extend 
our brand’s presence. Our logo 
was prominently displayed in every 
action replay of each IPL match, 
ensuring high-impact brand visibility 
among over 50 Crores viewers. 
Given that IPL matches air live in the 
evening, we optimised our digital-
first approach, targeting mobile 
users during office commutes and 
connected TV viewers at home, 
delivering both reach and frequency 
at an unprecedented scale.
A defining moment in our brand 
journey was the onboarding of Anil 
Kapoor as our brand ambassador in 
August 2024. Known for his fitness, 
longevity, and adaptability, Kapoor 
personifies the values that Agilus 
Diagnostics upholds. His association 
with our campaign, Khud Ko Test 
Kartey Raho’ (Keep Testing Yourself), 
resonated strongly with audiences 
across demographics. The campaign 
was brought to life through a master 
film showcasing Kapoor’s dedication 
to continuous self-improvement in 
the film industry, along with two 
additional films depicting everyday 
scenarios where he emphasises the 
importance of regular health testing.
The campaign was executed at 
a massive 360-degree scale from 
September 2024 to March 2025, 
incorporating TV, digital, print, 
outdoor, and transit advertising. A 
full-page front-page ad featuring 
Kapoor was placed in leading 
newspapers such as the Times of 
India and Economic Times. Television 
ads aired on key news and spiritual 
channels, complemented by non-
FCT elements like L-band, Aston 
Band, ILUs, logo bugs, and program 
sponsorships. During the peak 
season, our presence was intensified 
on entertainment channels such 
as Sony and SAB TV, where we 
became an associate sponsor for 
Kaun Banega Crorepati and Taarak 
Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashma. A strong 
radio campaign ran across top three 
stations in six focus cities—Delhi 
NCR, Mumbai, Bangalore, Kolkata, 
Chandigarh, and Lucknow—with 
Kapoor’s voice reinforcing brand 
recall.
Outdoor branding played a crucial 
role in amplifying our reach. 
Metro train coaches in Delhi were 
wrapped with Kapoor’s imagery and 
contextual messaging tailored for 
daily commuters, while hoardings 
and bus shelters across Delhi NCR, 
Mumbai, and Kolkata ensured high-
visibility placements.
The year culminated with a high-
impact presence during the much-
anticipated India-Pakistan match 
in the ICC Men’s Champions Trophy 
2025. Aired on Star Sports on a 
Sunday, the match was watched live 
by an astounding 40 Crores viewers. 
Concurrently, our digital campaign 
featuring Kapoor’s brand film was 
promoted across YouTube, Meta 
platforms, Google, and other digital 
partners, generating over 160 Crores 
impressions.
In parallel with our branding efforts, 
we made significant strides in digital 
transformation. A new and improved 
customer mobile app and website 
were launched, designed with a 
simpler, more intuitive interface to 
enhance user experience. Over the 
year, the website attracted 38 Lakhs 
unique visitors, while the mobile 
app saw 3 Lakhs new installs, with 
an active monthly user base of 2.1 
Lakhs customers. Our hyperlocal SEO 
strategy further strengthened the 
digital presence of Agilus centers, 
increasing online leads and walk-ins.
Customer Experience 
(loyalty program and app 
development)
Club Agilus is the first-ever consumer 
loyalty program in the diagnostics 
industry. This year we undertook 
several initiatives to increase 
its awareness and to grow its 
customer base. Offering a zero-fee 
membership, the program allows 
customers to earn and redeem 
reward points on transactions, 
enrollments, profile completions, 
surveys, and other engagement 
activities. These points can be used 
for discounts and privileges at Agilus 
centers and partner establishments. 
With 34 Lakhs customers already 
enrolled, we plan to expand and 
promote the program further in 
FY2025-26.
FY2025-26 will be focused on scaling 
up brand metrics, enhancing digital 
adoption, strengthening consumer 
loyalty, and expanding our market 
presence through innovative 
campaigns. Agilus Diagnostics 
remains committed to reinforcing its 
leadership position and continuing 
its journey of growth and excellence.
Agilus Diagnostics is a research-
driven organisation committed 
to pioneering advancements in 
diagnostic medicine. To maintain 
its leadership in the field, the 
Company engages extensively 
with key stakeholders, particularly 
physicians. Over the past year, Agilus 
collaborated with more than 11,000 
specialists and super-specialists 
through 240 Continuing Medical 
Education (CME) sessions, Round 
Table Meets (RTMs), and scientific 
conferences.
Raising public awareness about 
critical health conditions remains 
a core focus. This year, Agilus 
implemented numerous targeted 
campaigns, including initiatives for 
World Doctors’ Day, Diwali, New 
Year wellness, Mother’s Day, World 
Heart Day, World Diabetes Day, 
World Hypertension Day, World 
IBD Awareness, World Thalassemia 
Awareness, World Digestive Health 
Awareness, Monsoon Dengue 
Prevention, Allergy Awareness, and 
Breast Cancer Awareness. These 
programs are designed to educate 
healthcare professionals and the 
public on disease prevention and 
early detection. Additionally, 
the ‘Ask Your Doctor’ campaign 
placed informative posters in clinics 
to encourage proactive patient 
engagement with healthcare 
providers.
To further strengthen its 
commitment to preventive 
healthcare, Agilus Diagnostics 
introduced the Complete Care 
Packages, offering a wide range 
of diagnostic services tailored to 
address diverse health concerns, 
facilitating early detection and 
proactive healthcare management. 
46
47
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
The SMART reports integrate 
advanced diagnostics with 
personalised recommendations, 
providing actionable insights into 
diet, lifestyle modifications, and risk 
factors, empowering patients and 
physicians with data-driven health 
strategies for improved clinical 
outcomes.
New Tests and Technology
This year, Agilus significantly 
expanded its diagnostic offerings 
with over 40 new specialised 
tests, including advanced panels 
for oncology, infectious diseases, 
hematology, and allergen screening. 
Notable additions include the 
Cancer Hotspot 50 Genes Panel, 
STAT Dx Comprehensive Respiratory 
Panel, STAT Dx Gastrointestinal 
Pathogen Panel, STAT Dx Meningitis-
Encephalitis Panel, Human 
Interleukin 2 Receptor Assay, 
Lymphoma NGS Panel, Leukemia 
Genetic Panel, Hemophagocytic 
Lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) Panel, 
Minimal Residual Disease Detection 
via NGS, and Comprehensive 
Infectious Disease Panel by NGS. 
The introduction of Gut Microbiome 
Analysis and specialised allergy 
panels for the Indian population 
further strengthens Agilus’ position 
in precision diagnostics.
Technological innovation remains 
at the forefront, with the launch of 
the Genexus Integrated Sequencer, 
a next-generation sequencing (NGS) 
system that delivers rapid, high-
accuracy genetic test results. The 
introduction of 3-Day Oncogenomics 
marks a significant breakthrough in 
oncology diagnostics, offering three-
day turnaround times for genomic 
profiling of myeloid malignancies. 
The Oncomine Myeloid Panel (DNA 
& RNA) significantly reduces wait 
times compared to industry norms, 
where similar analyses often take 
two to three weeks. Additionally, the 
Oncomine Precision Assay provides 
liquid biopsy results within two days, 
expediting clinical decision-making 
and improving patient care.
Strategic collaborations continue to 
enhance diagnostic capabilities. A 
partnership with Lucence, a global 
leader in molecular diagnostics, has 
strengthened Agilus’ capabilities 
in cancer detection, treatment 
selection, and disease monitoring. 
Through this collaboration, Agilus 
introduced the Liquid Hallmark Test, 
a non-invasive NGS-based assay 
offering critical therapeutic insights 
when traditional biopsies are 
insufficient. The Rapid Tissue Mark 
Test further enables the detection 
of over 50 DNA/RNA genomic 
alterations, including Microsatellite 
Instability (MSI), in FFPE tissue 
samples.
As the first commercial lab to 
offer advanced diagnostics, Agilus 
introduced the Claudin 18.2 Test, 
a Ventana-approved companion 
diagnostic test for Zolbetuximab, 
crucial for targeted treatment 
of gastric and gastroesophageal 
junction (GEJ) adenocarcinomas. 
Claudin 18.2 expression is observed 
in up to 70% of gastric cancers and 
60% of pancreatic adenocarcinomas, 
making it a promising target 
for precision medicine. The 
Company also introduced RhD 
Genotyping via Cell-Free DNA 
(cfDNA), a non-invasive prenatal 
test for determining fetal RhD 
status in pregnancies involving 
Rh-negative mothers, thereby 
reducing the need for unnecessary 
interventions. Other notable 
additions include Component 
Resolved Diagnosis (CRD) Allergy 
Testing, which allows precise 
identification of IgE-mediated 
allergies, and Gut Microbiome 
Testing, a comprehensive analysis 
of gut microbial diversity, providing 
insights into digestion, immunity, 
metabolism, and overall well-being.
Agilus’ commitment to public health 
extends to its partnership with the 
Indian Menopausal Society, aimed 
at transforming cervical cancer 
screening through co-testing (HPV 
+ Liquid-Based Cytology [LBC]). This 
initiative enhances early detection, 
improves health outcomes, and raises 
awareness about the importance 
of routine screening, particularly 
among menopausal-age women. 
Additionally, Agilus is collaborating 
on a research initiative to publish 
a national dataset establishing the 
clinical significance of co-testing in 
cervical cancer prevention.
Through these pioneering 
developments, Agilus Diagnostics 
continues to drive innovation in 
precision medicine, preventive 
healthcare, and genomic diagnostics, 
reinforcing its commitment to 
improving healthcare accessibility 
and patient outcomes.
Research and Development
In FY 2024-2025, Agilus Diagnostics 
expanded its focus on diagnostic 
advancements, process efficiency, 
high-end technologies, and 
emerging areas such as Genomics. 
The major objective was to enhance 
the esoteric test menu to cater to 
Pan India requests. Six new tests 
targeting seasonal infections and a 
broad range of bacterial detection 
and identification were introduced.
The advanced genomics portfolio 
was further expanded with new 
multi-disorder panels. Point-of-
care technology for emergency 
diagnostics was successfully 
implemented, offering rapid and 
cost-effective syndromic panels 
for respiratory, neurological, 
and gastrointestinal infections. 
Following successful deployment at 
the Goregaon Reference Lab, this 
technology was also installed at a 
key location in Gurgaon.
R&D efforts included exploring 
contract evaluation services, co-
marketing projects, and feasibility 
assessments for clinical research 
studies. A total of 22 feasibility 
assessments were supported, with 
successful execution of two clinical 
research studies. Additionally, 
innovative method development 
for measuring growth biomarkers 
in hair specimens was completed, 
processing over 250 samples.
During the year, Agilus established 
a technology transfer agreement to 
bring advanced testing capabilities 
in-house, enhancing offerings 
for wellness clients and clinical 
research service requirements. Two 
contract evaluation requests for 
new technologies were successfully 
concluded, along with a research 
collaboration with an academic 
institution.
The R&D division is progressing 
toward registration as an Evaluation 
Center for Medical Devices and 
Diagnostics under regulatory 
authorities. Marketing campaign 
support was provided for the High-
Risk HPV test launch on International 
Women’s Day and for a new 
molecular TB test planned for World 
TB Day.
Additionally, clinician engagement 
through academic discourses and 
round-table meetings focusing on 
advancements in molecular diagnosis 
continued throughout the year.
Academic Achievements 
Agilus Diagnostic Ltd is the first 
diagnostic laboratory to offer a 
one year Fellowship program to 
doctors in India that imparts applied 
knowledge of molecular pathology 
in cancers, genetic disorders and 
infectious diseases under the aegis 
of Maharashtra University of Health 
Sciences (MUHS), Nashik. Under 
this program, one pathologist is 
undergoing a Fellowship Course 
in Molecular Pathology. Two 
students from Patkar Varde College, 
Mumbai University are undergoing 
their dissertation at our Genomics 
Department at our global reference 
laboratory in Goregaon, Mumbai. 
Our innovative learning platform 
Agilus MedGurukul for upskilling 
of doctors and technologists 
conducted 15 training sessions and 
2 CME’s. At the IHH Quality Summit 
Bharat 2024 or the first time a 
dedicated Laboratory Track session 
was held. This was organised by 
Agilus doctors. Participants included 
IHH lab partners from Malaysia 
(Premier Integrated Labs), Singapore 
(Parkway Laboratories), Türkiye 
(Acibadem Labmed), Gleneagles 
Hospitals in India and Hong Kong. 
The event covered important topics, 
including innovations shaping 
modern laboratories, breakthroughs 
in infectious disease diagnosis, 
the rise of emerging pathogens, 
advancements beyond lipid profiling, 
and digital pathology. In FY 2024-25 
there were 2 issues of Pulse, Agilus’ 
medical case reports journal. Our 
doctors also contributed to Fortis 
Clinical Connect. Agilus doctors 
participated in national conferences 
and published more than 28 
scientific research papers in indexed 
peer-reviewed journals. 
49
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
48
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
KEY INITIATIVES 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Electronic Medical Records (EMR)
Queue Management Solution
Enterprise Asset Management
As part of strategic project 
and digitisation initiative to 
enhance patient experience 
and optimise digital assets, we 
began implementing an EMR 
solution to streamline patient 
health data documentation and 
sharing. While the project is 
still underway, a key milestone 
achieved in 2024–2025 was 
the successful digitisation of 
medical records in the OPDs of 
15 hospitals and the IPD of one 
hospital, significantly improving 
clinical efficiency and patient 
care.
The implementation of queue 
management solution has 
effectively streamlined patient 
flow, leading to improved 
patient satisfaction and a better 
overall care experience. While 
the project is still underway, so 
far, we have implemented QMS 
at six hospitals. 
Implemented the Enterprise 
Asset Management (EAM) 
application across two hospital 
facilities for the management 
of medical equipment. This 
initiative aims to bring further 
improvement in patient care 
by ensuring optimised asset 
availability and efficient 
maintenance practices.
MyFortis Application Feature 
Enhancement
Information Security & Resilience
IT Infrastructure
We enhanced our mobile 
application with new features, 
including the ability for patients 
to book investigation slots, 
resulting in greater convenience 
and an improved overall 
experience.
As part of our ongoing 
commitment to information 
security, we have deployed 
next-generation solutions across 
network for secure network 
access, application protection, 
and continuous monitoring.
As part of our modernisation 
journey and to further enhance 
our digital footprint we 
undertook key initiatives to 
upgrade the EUC, network, 
backend infrastructure, and 
WAN. These upgrades were 
designed to strengthen our IT 
foundation, ensuring higher 
uptime, faster systems, and 
improved productivity through 
greater agility and robustness.
50
51
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
KEY INITIATIVES 
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
Driving Innovation & Operational Excellence in Agilus via Technology
At Agilus, technology remains the 
cornerstone of our mission to provide 
accurate, population-scale, efficient, 
and accessible diagnostic solutions. 
In FY 2024-25, we continued to 
invest in cutting-edge solutions, 
automation, and Technology/Digital 
transformation to enhance patient 
care and operational efficiency. 
As India’s leading diagnostic 
laboratory, we are embarking on 
an ambitious multi-year Technology 
Transformation Program designed to 
establish us as the nation’s premier 
healthcare partner. 
Advanced Diagnostic 
Technologies
Automation & Laboratory 
Network Expansion
Seamless Patient Experience 
through Digital Solutions
Infrastructure, Cybersecurity & 
Data Protection
This year, we modernised 
our state-of-the-art Genesys 
platform to continue delivery 
of next-generation sequencing 
(NGS) in our Genomics Division, 
completed evaluation of a 
centralised-intelligent Radiology 
Software to be rolled out in 
the upcoming fiscal ensuring 
faster & precision reporting 
by eliminating any manual 
intervention.
To strengthen our nationwide 
diagnostic network, we rolled 
out SDWAN across 200+ labs, 
matured our CLIMS API offerings 
for frictionless integration with 
B2B aggregators. These initiatives 
have enhanced efficiency, 
minimised human error including 
reconciliation challenges, and 
increased scalability to meet the 
growing demand for diagnostic 
services.
In our continued commitment to 
patient-centric care, we continue 
to our mobile app and web 
platforms, enabling seamless 
booking, real-time test tracking, 
and instant report access. 
As we continue to embrace 
transformation via Application & 
Data Center Modernisation, we 
remain committed to ensuring the 
highest standards of cybersecurity 
and patient data privacy. Our 
advanced encryption protocols 
and compliance with in-country 
regulatory standards safeguard 
sensitive medical data, fostering 
trust and transparency.
52
53
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
CLINICAL HIGHLIGHTS
April 2024: 
In an extremely rare surgery, 
doctors at Fortis Hospital 
Mohali performed a Robot-
assisted Partial Nephrectomy 
on a transplanted kidney of 
a 56-year-old cancer patient. 
The challenging surgery has 
been previously performed 
only at a few centres across 
the world.
May 2024: 
A 39-year-old Kenyan 
woman’s tennis ball-sized 
facial nerve schwannoma, 
an extremely rare tumour, 
was removed after a 15-hour 
surgery at Fortis Vasant Kunj, 
New Delhi.
May 2024: 
Doctors at Fortis Hospital, 
Anandapur, conducted a 
rare procedure to remove a 
60-year-old male’s common 
bile duct (CBD) stone. The 
procedure was demanding 
as the patient suffered 
from postural defect due 
to abnormal curvature and 
deformity of the spine.
August 2024: 
Doctors at Fortis Hospital, 
Noida, successfully removed 
a watermelon sized non-
cancerous tumour weighing 
2.2 kgs from the uterus of a 
49-year-old woman via Robot-
aided surgery.
August 2024: 
Fortis Escorts, Okhla, 
achieved a historic medical 
milestone by performing 
India’s first Kidney Auto-
Transplant on a 6-year-old 
child from Uzbekistan 
suffering from Bilateral 
Wilms Tumour, a rare 
kidney cancer.
September 2024: 
Relentless two-month-long 
efforts of a multi-speciality 
team of doctors at Fortis 
Hospital Shalimar Bagh, New 
Delhi, led to the spectacular 
recovery of a 20-year-old male 
road traffic accident victim.
October 2024: 
In a first-of-its-kind case 
in the world, 14-year-old 
child suffering from Chronic 
Budd-Chiari Syndrome 
with Chronically Occluded 
Portomesenteric Venous 
System underwent a complex 
portal vein reconstruction via 
the umbilical vein at Fortis 
Gurugram. 
August 2024: 
Doctors at Fortis Hiranandani 
Hospital, Vashi, excised 
a pumpkin-sized adrenal 
tumour weighing 6.8 kg from 
the abdomen of a 44-year-old 
female patient. The tumour 
had been detected during a 
routine check-up.
October 2024: 
A team of doctors at Fortis 
Escorts Hospital, Faridabad, 
successfully extracted over 
1,170 stones from the 
gallbladder of a 36-year-old 
woman.
May 2024: 
Doctors at Fortis Cunningham 
Road, Bengaluru, achieved 
a remarkable world-first by 
performing three complex 
surgeries simultaneously — 
Coronary Artery Bypass Graft 
(CABG), gallbladder stone removal, 
and colon cancer surgery — on 
a 44-year-old patient, in a single 
surgical session lasting 7 hours.
54
55
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
Fortis Healthcare was awarded 
a Certificate of Excellence 
under the category of ‘Top 3 
Green Transition Stories’ by Tata 
Power-DDL (Delhi Distribution 
Limited), recognising 
commitment to sustainable 
practices across all facilities.
April 2024
Fortis Hospital Mohali won 
the prestigious 25th National 
Award for Excellence in Energy 
Management 2024, instituted 
by the Confederation of Indian 
Industry (CII), for the record 
11th time.
September 2024
Fortis Mulund, Fortis 
Anandapur, SL Raheja Hospital, 
Fortis Hospital & Kidney 
Institute, Kolkata, and Fortis 
Hospital, Shalimar Bagh 
won awards under various 
categories at the annual 
conference of Consortium 
of Accredited Healthcare 
Organisation (CAHOCON 2024).
April 2024
Fortis Vasant Kunj, Fortis 
Escorts Heart Institute, New 
Delhi, Fortis Gurugram, Fortis 
Ludhiana and Fortis Anandapur, 
Kolkata, won awards in various 
categories at the Association 
of Healthcare Providers – India 
(AHPI) Healthcare Excellence 
Award 2025.
January 2025
Fortis Healthcare was 
recognised with ‘Best ESG 
Initiatives to Implement Energy 
Efficiency’ and ‘Best ESG 
Performance in Healthcare’ 
awards at the 5th Annual ESG 
Summit & Awards, 2024, held in 
New Delhi.
April 2024
The Fortis Gurugram Medical 
Oncology team was honoured 
with a prestigious award for its 
pioneering work in molecular 
oncology at the European 
Society of Medical Oncology 
Asia (ESMO Asia) conference.
December 2024
MEDIA COVERAGE GARNERED BY PR INITIATIVES
32,411 Media Stories (Print + Online + Electronic) published for the duration April 2024 
to March 2025.
Six Fortis hospitals were ranked 
amongst top 100 hospitals in 
Newsweek’s ‘Best Specialised 
Hospitals – Asia Pacific 2024’ 
list.
July 2024
Fortis Hospital, Mulund, 
received the prestigious 
JCI re-accreditation for the 
7th consecutive time. Fortis 
Mulund is the third hospital 
in the country to secure seven 
consecutive re-accreditations.
June 2024
Fortis Hospital, Gurugram, was 
recognised with a prestigious 
award at the SWAAC ELSO 
Conference in Abu Dhabi for its 
outstanding contribution to the 
development of ECMO in India.
February 2025
Fortis Healthcare was named 
a Supply Chain Champion 
2024 in the Hospitals sector by 
the Institute of Supply Chain 
Management (ISCM).
September 2024
Awards and Accolades - Agilus
MEDIA COVERAGE GARNERED BY PR & BRAND INITIATIVES
Over 500+ media coverages across financial, mainline, regional, 
online and trade media publications for the duration April 2024 to 
March 2025. 
National Diagnostic Chain of 
the Year 
at The Economic Times 
Healthcare Awards 2024
Best Diagnostics Chain of the 
Year 
by ASSOCHAM
Best National Diagnostic Lab 
Chain of the Year 
(Recognised) at Voice 
of Healthcare’s National 
Diagnostic Summit
Gold Award for Smart & Future 
Ready Diagnostic Brand  
by IHW Smart Hospitals & 
Diagnostics Awards
Diagnostic Leader of the Year  
awarded to Dr. Anand K., at 
Voice of Healthcare’s National 
Diagnostics Summit & Awards
Number 1 Diagnostic Chain 
by Times Health Excellence 
Survey 2025
56
57
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Shaping a High-
performance Organisation 
This has been an exceptional year 
for us from Human Resources 
perspective. All key indices saw a big 
leap in terms of their positive impact 
on the organisation.
Our engagement score stayed in the 
higher realms of global benchmark 
and India benchmark with 97% of 
eligible employees participating in 
the survey this year. It is indeed a 
moment of pride for us. 
Our ability to provide strong anchors 
for people to continue building their 
career with us further improved 
by reduction in attrition by 2% in 
absolute terms, majorly owing to 5% 
improvement for Nursing category. 
Both are best outcomes of last 5 
years. 
Our technology edge for employee 
experience has been satisfactory 
with stabilising of the platform 
and addition of new processes. 
Automation at network level 
has brought a sense of smooth 
workflow which in turn deepens 
our commitment to becoming agile 
through efficient and effective 
operations in line with business 
requirements.
Learning & Development stays 
our most valued interventions in 
ensuring people grow and stay 
relevant in the ever-evolving 
healthcare domain. This is achieved 
through a well-defined development 
Training Statistics 
FY 2024-25
development strategies are hence 
designed to foster this across teams. 
In 2024 we launched a large-
scale training initiative to build 
collaborative skills and mindset 
across the organisation. This effort 
reached over 8000 employees, 
ensuring that our teams are better 
equipped to support each other and 
deliver coordinated, compassionate 
care. This investment reflects our 
commitment to building a culture 
where collaboration drives both 
people and performance.
Total Training Hours
7,12,876
Total Program 
Count
 25,965
Total Participants 
Count (Unique)
13,972
agenda cutting across senior leaders, 
Hospital management teams, 
functional leaders, operational 
leaders, clinicians, technicians and 
Nursing work groups. 
As an external testimony, we were 
recognised for our commendable 
efforts in the area of Women 
Empowerment by FICCI in their 
Workforce Summit & Awards. 
Long term value addition 
through Skill development 
and integration of talent 
from marginalised sections 
of society 
The key to sustained success lies 
in empowering our most valuable 
asset—our people. We continued 
to fortify our Fortis Apprentice 
Program, one of the biggest skill 
development programs in the 
Healthcare space having crossed a 
pipeline strength of approximately 
2000 apprentices across our network 
of our markets engaging and 
training frontline workforce from 
otherwise marginalised sections of 
our society and Indian landscape. 
Collaboration as a Catalyst 
for Employee Well-being 
and Excellence in Care
As an organisation, we fully 
recognise that collaboration 
is foundational to healthcare 
excellence, operational efficiency 
& employee wellbeing. Our people 
HUMAN RESOURCES
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
58
59
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Training and Development
Agilus remains committed to training 
and development, offering tailored 
competency enhancement programs 
for employees. Our curriculum 
includes a blend of technical, skills 
and behavioural training sessions 
facilitated by internal SMEs and 
external experts. In FY 2024-25 we 
clocked ~6,400 man-days conducted 
over 1,418 training hours, reaching 
23,000+ participants count. 
By leveraging platforms like 
MedGurukul and TechTalk, we 
shared technical expertise across the 
specialities. We conducted specific 
soft skills session based on identified 
training needs for different set 
of employees. We conducted 
Corporate Effectiveness series of 
training sessions covering various 
behavioural, culture related and 
overall professional effectiveness 
aspects. We leveraged Agilus LMS 
to help employees go through 
compliance training through 
interactive eLearning modules. 
Agilus facilitated targeted upskilling 
training interventions for its Sales 
Team (Agilus Consultative Selling 
Skills), Phlebotomists (Agilus 
Phlebotomy Essentials) and customer 
facing staff including phlebotomists 
(F.A.C.E. & Patient Centric Upselling). 
Agilus organised an experiential 
outbound leadership development 
program (G.R.A.C.E.) around A.C.E. 
framework for its leadership team. 
Our competency framework, 
supported by intense research, 
aims to drive a performance-driven 
culture focused on collaboration, 
ownership, teamwork, and 
innovation. Our online LMS portal 
supports the training needs of the 
employees at their convenience. 
Employee Engagement
Agilus facilitated various Employee 
Engagement initiatives throughout 
the year. We leveraged our 
festivals and national celebrations 
for organising various employee 
engagement activities wherein 
we arranged events like rangolis, 
quizzes, games etc. The employees 
were encouraged to come in Ethnic 
Attire, and we arranged special 
HUMAN RESOURCES
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
food for the employees while 
we celebrated together. Agilus 
felicitated the old employees 
completing 5, 10 and 15 years with 
Long Service Awards. Besides, we 
organised employee family picnic 
and sports activities in different 
states.
Training Statistics 
FY 2024-2025
Program Count
445
Training Hours
1,418
Participation Count
23,438
60
61
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
SOCIAL INITIATIVES 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Strategic Interventions for 
Advancing Health Equity and 
Systemic Resilience
Fortis Healthcare operates with the 
understanding that public health 
outcomes are impacted by various 
socioeconomic determinants—
ranging from educational access 
and infrastructural development 
to workforce preparedness. Our 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
strategy is intentionally designed to 
be a catalyst for structural change, 
moving beyond conventional 
philanthropy. By strengthening 
institutional capacity, knowledge 
and technological integration, our 
interventions seek to engender 
sustained improvements in 
developmental indices within 
marginalised geographies across 
India.
Anchored in four foundational 
pillars—Healthcare Access, Education 
Access, Skilling, Community 
Awareness with Capacity Building 
and Innovation for Sustainability 
as underlying enablers – our CSR 
architecture is purpose-built to align 
with national policy mandates while 
enabling systemic resilience and 
social inclusion at the grassroots.
In the fiscal year 2024–25, Fortis 
Healthcare and Agilus Diagnostics 
deployed ` 14.76 Crores of CSR 
investment in initiatives across 
all the four foundation pillars. 
These programs were designed 
and implemented through long-
term partnerships with reputed 
NGOs, industry associations, and 
implementation partners to ensure 
scale, rigor, and replicability.
Building on the foundational success 
of previous years, three flagship 
initiatives—the Fortis and Agilus 
Apprenticeship Program, the Whole 
School Transformation initiative, and 
the PHC Upgradation program—
were strategically expanded in the 
current year. This scale-up reflects a 
deliberate effort to amplify impact 
through deeper engagement, 
broader geographic outreach, and 
enhanced delivery mechanisms. 
By evolving these core programs, 
Fortis aims to drive more systemic, 
high-leverage outcomes that align 
with both national priorities and 
community-specific needs.
Program Portfolio: Strategic Overview
Fortis Apprenticeship Program: 
Augmenting Human Capital for 
Healthcare Systems
Whole School Transformation: 
Systemic Enhancement of 
Government School Infrastructure
Primary Health Centre (PHC) 
Upgradation: Enhancing 
Infrastructure for Primary Healthcare
Medical Scholarship Program: 
Democratising Access to Medical 
Education
This intervention addresses labour 
market asymmetries by providing 
competency-based training to entry- 
and mid-level medical and non-
medical field personnel. Strategically 
aligned with national initiatives 
such as the National Apprenticeship 
Training Scheme (NATS) and the 
National Apprenticeship Promotion 
Scheme (NAPS), the program 
delivers targeted skills across roles 
like Home Health Aides, Front 
Desk Coordinators, and Data Entry 
Operators.
In FY 2024–25, the initiative 
successfully trained 1,585 apprentices 
from pan-India with a corpus of 
` 5.98 Crores, reinforcing both 
healthcare system capacity and the 
employability of youth in structurally 
disadvantaged regions. The 
program's scope was expanded this 
year to encompass a larger talent 
pipeline and more specialised roles 
in response to evolving healthcare 
delivery needs.
Implemented in partnership with 
YUVA Unstoppable, this program 
seeks to institutionalise equity 
in public education through 
comprehensive school development. 
Key activities include the integration 
of smart classrooms, installation of 
gender-sensitive sanitation facilities, 
deployment of renewable energy 
solutions, and capacity building for 
educators.
With an investment of ` 3.75 
Crores in FY 2024–25, the program 
upgraded 28 schools across five 
states, positively impacting over 
12,000 students and advancing 
policy objectives under Samagra 
Shiksha and Swachh Bharat 
Abhiyan. The initiative builds on 
the groundwork laid in the previous 
year, with enhancements made to 
infrastructure standards, pedagogical 
resources, and the scale of reach.
In collaboration with the Society 
of Community Health Oriented 
Operational Links (SCHOOL), this 
initiative strengthened 42 PHCs 
across seven states through the 
deployment of critical medical 
equipment, solar energy solutions, 
and structured workforce training 
modules for approx 200 healthcare 
workers. 
With an investment of ` 2 Crores, the 
intervention reached approximately 
2.1 Million individuals, significantly 
bolstering PHC compliance of 19 
out of the 43 PHCs with National 
Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) 
and catalysing trust in public health 
delivery systems. This program 
represents a continued and scaled-up 
effort from prior years, incorporating 
the provision of critical healthcare 
equipment and broader geographic 
coverage to ensure greater access 
and service quality.
Executed with the Foundation 
for Excellence (FFE), this merit- 
and means-based scholarship 
program supports MBBS aspirants 
from economically marginalised 
households. The initiative is 
complemented by the “Beyond 
Scholarship” mentorship series, 
which connects scholars with domain 
experts from Fortis to support them 
in their professional journey.
In FY 2024–25, Fortis allocated `1.82 
Crores to support 194 scholars across 
22 states, advancing gender equity 
and geographic representation in 
India’s future medical workforce.
62
63
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Cancer Screening and Health 
and Wellness Centre (HWC) 
Strengthening
Emergency Medical 
Response Augmentation: 
Ambulance Deployment
Digital Health Training: Digitally 
Enabling the Grassroots Health 
Workforce
CSR Governance Architecture: 
Strategic Oversight and Compliance
CSR as a Catalyst for Institutional 
and Social Transformation
Fortis Healthcare’s CSR approach 
is an instrument of systemic 
transformation, conceived to address 
complex developmental asymmetries 
through integrated, evidence-informed 
interventions. By investing strategically 
in human capital, healthcare 
infrastructure, and digital enablement, 
Fortis contributes meaningfully to 
India’s national development agenda 
As a strategic contributor to a FICCI-
led initiative, Fortis enabled early-
stage cancer detection through 84 
camps, utilising advanced diagnostic 
technologies such as Niramai’s 
AI-enabled Thermalytix and the 
OralScan device. The program also 
enabled capacity building of 220 
healthcare professionals and front-
line workers.
More than 6,000 individuals were 
screened, and 74 cases were 
referred for further tertiary-level 
care. Simultaneously, five HWCs 
were upgraded in alignment 
with National Quality Assurance 
Standards (NQAS) improving the 
continuum of preventive healthcare 
at the community level.
In collaboration with the Directorate 
of Health Services, Government 
of Kerala, Fortis donated a fully 
equipped Basic Life Support (BLS) 
ambulance, thereby augmenting 
the state’s capacity for time-critical 
emergency healthcare delivery in 
high-density areas.
Under the umbrella of the 
Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, 
Fortis supported NATHealth’s 
Digital Health Training initiative 
to capacitate smaller healthcare 
providers in digital literacy, 
monitoring competency, and 
adopting efficient health 
management tools such as Electronic 
Medical Records (EMR).
In FY 2024–25, 92 professionals from 
semi-urban areas in 2 states were 
trained, thereby reinforcing the 
foundations of India’s digital health 
infrastructure.
Fortis Healthcare operationalised 
a robust governance mechanism 
through its engagement with 
Sattva Consulting, which provided 
end-to-end support in compliance 
assurance, partner due diligence, 
outcome reporting, and quarterly 
portfolio evaluations. This 
governance architecture ensures that 
all CSR activities adhere to statutory 
requirements and global best 
practices while retaining flexibility 
for context-responsive decision-
making.
and the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).
This forward-looking model repositions 
CSR as a tool for institutional resilience 
and inclusive progress. Fortis 
remains committed to evolving its 
CSR framework in line with emergent 
societal needs, thereby shaping—not 
merely supporting India’s socio-
economic trajectory toward a healthier 
and more equitable future.
64
65
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FORTIS AND AGILUS CSR 
ANNUAL ACTION PLAN: FY 2024-25
Theme
Project Name
Partner Name
Brief Description
Locations
Budget
Healthcare (20%)
Ambulance (2%)
Direct Implementation
Strengthened emergency response via 1 fully 
equipped BLS (Basic Life Support) Ambulance, 
ensuring faster critical care access.
Kerala
`28,10,513
Smart HWC and Cancer Screenings (4%)
Federation of Indian Chambers 
of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
Preventive healthcare services through 6,071 oral 
and breast cancer screenings and upgradation of 5 
HWCs, enabling early diagnosis of cancer and better 
access to quality healthcare.
Uttar Pradesh
`52,10,437
PHC upgradation (14%)
Society of Community Health 
Oriented Operational Links 
(SCHOOL)
Improved healthcare infrastructure and service 
delivery at 42 UPHCs, improving access to quality 
healthcare for underserved communities.
Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, 
Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, 
Karnataka, Uttarakhand
`2,00,00,000
Digital Health Training (0.3%)
NATHealth
Digital Health training of 92 healthcare providers for 
adoption of digital healthcare tools.
Uttar Pradesh, Punjab
`5,00,000
Education (37%)
Whole School Transformation (25%)
YUVA Unstoppable
Enhanced Learning Infrastructure, WASH facilities 
and Green Energy solutions in 28 schools to create a 
holistic learning environment and improve student 
engagement.
Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, 
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh
`3,75,00,000
Scholarships (12%)
Foundation for Excellence
Scholarships to 194 meritorious low-income students 
to pursue higher education in MBBS, enabling future 
healthcare workforce.
Pan India with majority from Andhra 
Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh
`1,82,69,457
Skilling (41%)
Apprenticeship Program (41%)
Direct Implementation
On-the-job Apprenticeship training to 1,585 
candidates, boosting employability in the multiple 
sectors including healthcare.
Pan India with majority from Delhi, 
Kerala, Karnataka
`5,98,30,165
Innovation (0%)
IIT Madras Brain Research Center (0.4%)
Direct Implementation
Supported advance brain research through 
large-scale data processing, digital imaging, and 
pathology at a cellular resolution.
Pan India
`6,08,758
Admin (2%)
Program Management Fee (2%)
Sattva Consulting
Efficient governance, periodic monitoring, and 
strategic execution of CSR initiatives.
-
`29,34,336
Total allocated CSR funds
`14,76,63,666
66
67
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
SOCIAL INITIATIVES
AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED
At Agilus Diagnostics, we believe that access to healthcare and education has the power to transform lives and 
strengthen communities. Our CSR efforts are focused on building critical healthcare infrastructure, supporting deserving 
medical students, and providing skill development opportunities to young people seeking careers in the medical & non-
medical sectors. Each initiative is crafted with long-term sustainability and measurable outcomes in mind. We continue 
to scale and refine these interventions year after year, driven by the belief that meaningful social change is achieved 
through consistent and focused efforts.
CSR Summary (FY 2024-25)
Project
Ambulance 
Donation
FY 2023-24 Impact
FY 2024-25 Impact
Medical 
Scholarships
Apprenticeship 
Program
51 scholarships provided to medical students
Expanded to 194 scholarships 
supported
797 apprentices trained and placed
Over 1,500 apprentices trained 
and placed this year
2 BLS and 1 ALS ambulance donated to 
Directorate of Health Services, Trivandrum 
serving an estimated 2,77,000 patients in their 
lifetime
1 additional ambulance 
donated; supporting an 
estimated 13,000 patients in 
its lifetime
Project Descriptions (FY 2024-25)
Ambulance Donation Project
Agilus continues to strengthen 
emergency medical infrastructure by 
donating ambulances to underserved 
regions. In FY 2023-24, Agilus 
donated two Basic Life Support 
(BLS) ambulances and one Advanced 
Life Support (ALS) ambulance to 
Trivandrum, Kerala, targeting areas 
with high healthcare demand in 
consultation with local authorities. 
This year, Agilus enhanced the 
initiative by donating an additional 
BLS ambulance to the region.
Medical Scholarship Project
To address financial barriers faced 
by aspiring medical professionals 
from low-income families, Agilus 
has scaled up its scholarship 
initiative in FY 2024-25. Building 
on the success of supporting 51 
medical students last year, Agilus 
expanded the program to cover 
194 MBBS students this year.
Apprenticeship Program
Agilus’ Apprenticeship Program addresses the skill gap in healthcare by 
training and placing apprentices across various medical and non-medical 
roles, including hospital operations, diagnostics, administration, and patient 
care. After successfully training and placing 797 apprentices in FY 2023-24, 
Agilus expanded the program significantly, training and placing over 1,500 
apprentices this year.
Collectively, these ambulances 
are estimated to benefit 
approximately 3,90,000 patients 
over their lifetime, ensuring 
timely medical intervention, 
safe transfers, and emergency 
support. The ongoing project 
reflects Agilus’ commitment to 
improving accessibility to critical 
healthcare services.
Eligible students—scoring above 
a certain percentage in board 
exams with a certain rank in 
the NEET exam and with family 
income below ` 3 Lakhs—received 
scholarships ranging from ` 
50,000 to ` 1 Lakh based on the 
actual expenses of the scholar. 
The program includes mentorship 
sessions by Agilus doctors to 
provide career guidance and 
academic support. By investing 
in these future healthcare 
professionals, Agilus aims to 
enhance medical capacity and 
strengthen healthcare delivery 
across the country.
The structured, hands-on training approach equips participants with 
essential technical and soft skills, enhancing their employability and 
readiness for the workforce. The initiative contributes to building a 
skilled healthcare workforce capable of meeting evolving industry needs.
Through these initiatives, Agilus Diagnostics continues to drive social impact 
by promoting accessible healthcare, supporting education, and enhancing 
employability in the healthcare ecosystem.
69
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
68
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE (ESG) HIGHLIGHTS
We believe ESG is not just about compliance—it’s about coherence. As healthcare 
evolves, so must our systems of accountability, equity, and resilience. Fortis 
remains committed to leading this transformation with integrity and imagination.
At Fortis Healthcare, ESG is not a parallel agenda—it is the operating 
system of a resilient, regenerative healthcare future. Guided by principles 
of stakeholder capitalism, systems thinking, and double materiality, our ESG 
strategy seeks to align short-term excellence with long-term societal value.
FY 2024–25 was a year of embedding ESG deeper into our decision-making 
architecture, through cross-functional collaboration and outcomes that 
balance equity, efficiency, and environmental limits.
Environmental Stewardship
Rooted in the idea of planetary boundaries and resource decoupling, 
our environmental actions aimed at doing more with less.
	 Achieved a 6.53% reduction in per occupied bed electricity 
consumption, reinforcing operational energy efficiency.
	 98% deployment of water metering infrastructure across hospitals 
enhances our water governance readiness.
	 Advanced responsible bio-medical waste management, reflecting 
the principle of reduce-reuse- recycle and life-cycle thinking.
Social Impact
Drawing from the lens of just transition and shared value, we 
intensified our social engagement across the value chain.
	 Training coverage on Health & Safety measures for Fortis 
employees improved significantly, rising to 89.6% in FY 2024–25, 
up from 75.0% in FY 2023–24.
	 Reached thousands during World Environment Day through 
hospital-led community outreach and awareness campaigns.
	 Completed a sustainability assessment of top vendors, 
integrating ESG thinking into procurement ecosystems.
	 Rolled out the Fortis Premier League ESG Excellence Awards, 
gamifying impact and enabling bottom-up ownership.
Governance & Transparency
In a world demanding radical transparency and adaptive governance, we 
deepened our disclosure maturity and risk alignment.
	 Conducted our first double materiality assessment, aligning ESG focus 
areas with both enterprise value and stakeholder impact.
	 Attained third-party reasonable assurance for BRSR Core disclosures 
ensuring credibility, comparability, and stakeholder trust.
70
71
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Dear Members,
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting herewith the Twenty Ninth Annual Report of your Company along with the Audited 
Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements and the Auditors’ Report thereon for the Year ended March 31, 2025.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
The highlights of Consolidated Financial Results of your Company and its Subsidiaries are as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Consolidated
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
1.	
Revenue from operations
778,275
689,292
2.	
Other income
6,694
3,825
3.	
Total income (1+2)
784,969
693,117
4.	
Expenses
	
(a)	
Purchases of medical consumable and drugs
183,807
160,325
	
(b)	
Changes in inventories of medical consumable and drugs
(788)
1,543
	
(c)	
Employee benefits expense
116,724
111,953
	
(d)	
Finance costs
18,441
13,095
	
(e)	
Professional charges to doctors
163062
145,951
	
(f)	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
38,561
34,250
	
(g)	
Other expenses
156,676
142,756
Total expenses
676,483
609,873
5.	
Net profit/(loss) from continuing operations before share in profit/(loss) of 
associates and joint ventures, exceptional items and tax (3-4)
108,486
83,244
6.	
Add: Share in profit of associate companies and joint ventures
1,152
951
7. 	
Net profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (5+6)
109,638
84,195
8. 	
Exceptional gain/(loss)
(8,934)
1,602
9.	
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations (7+8)
100,704
85,797
10.	 Tax expense/(credit)
19,766
21,275
11.	 Net profit/(loss) for the period from continuing operations (9-10)
80,938
64,522
12.	 Profit/(loss) before tax from discontinued operations
-
-
13.	 Tax expense of discontinued operations
-
-
14.	 Net profit/(loss) for the period from discontinued operations (12-13)
-
-
15.	 Net profit/(loss) for the period (11+14)
80,938
64,522
16.	 Profit/(loss) from continuing operations attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
            77,421
59,888
	
Non-Controlling Interest
            3,517
4,634
17.	 Profit/(loss) from discontinuing operations attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
-
-
	
Non-Controlling Interest
-
-
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
72
Particulars
Consolidated
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
18.	 Other Comprehensive Income (including OCI relating to associates and joint 
venture) (after tax)
            (352)
178
19.	 Other comprehensive Income/(Loss) attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
             (321)
224
	
Non-Controlling interest
(31)
(46)
20.	 Total comprehensive Income/( Loss) (15+18)
          80,586
64,700
21.	 Total comprehensive Income/(Loss) attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
          77,100
60,112
	
Non-Controlling interest
          3,486
4,588
The highlights of financial results of your Company as a Standalone entity are as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Continuing Operations
1.	
Operating Income
144,589
118,142
2.	
Other Income
19,855
14,300
3.	
Total Income (1+2)
164,444
132,442
4.	
Total Expenditure (Excluding finance cost, depreciation & tax expenses)
119,038
98,861
5.	
Operating Profit (EBITDA) (3-4)
45,406
33,581
6.	
Finance Charges, Depreciation & Amortisation
22,450
18,290
7.	
Profit before exceptional items and tax (5-6)
22,956
15,291
8.	
Exceptional items
(11,514)
9,365
9.	
Profit before tax (7+8)
11,442
24,656
10.	 Tax Expenses
5,063
4,711
11.	 Net Profit for the year (9-10)
6,379
19,945
12.	 Share in profits of associate companies
-
-
13.	 Profit for the year from continuing operations (11+12)
6,379
19,945
14.	 Discontinuing Operations
	
Profit/(Loss) before tax from discontinuing operations
-
-
	
Tax expense of discontinuing operations
-
-
	
Profit/(Loss) after tax and before minority interest from discontinuing operations
-
-
	
Share in profits/(losses) of associate companies
-
-
	
Profit for the year from discontinuing operations
-
-
15.	 Profit for the year (13+14)
6,379
19,945
	
Other comprehensive income
(145)
(33)
	
Total comprehensive income (15+16)
6,234
19,912
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
73
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
STATE OF COMPANY’S AFFAIR, OPERATING RESULTS AND 
PROFITS
For the financial year 2024-25, the Company reported a 
consolidated revenue from operations of ₹ 7,783 Crores 
compared to ₹ 6,893 Crores reported for FY 2023-24. Revenue 
from Hospital business stood at ₹ 6,528 Crores compared to 
₹ 5,686 Crores reported during the corresponding previous 
year. Hospital business revenues contributed 84% approx. to 
the total consolidated revenue in FY 2024-25 as compared to 
82% in FY 2023-24. Agilus Diagnostics Limited (“Agilus”), the 
diagnostic business of the Company, reported gross revenues 
of ₹ 1,407 Crores compared to ₹ 1,372 Crores in the previous 
financial year. Considering elimination of inter-company 
revenue (within the group), net revenue of Agilus was at ₹ 
1,255 Crores compared to ₹ 1,207 Crores in FY 2023-24.
The growth in hospital business was led by 9% growth 
in ARPOB at ₹ 2.42 Crores per annum compared to ₹ 2.22 
Crores per annum in FY 2023-24. The occupancy levels stood 
at 69 % in FY 2024-25 as compared to 65% in FY 2023-
24. The Company’s focus specialties comprising Oncology, 
Gastroenterology, Neurosciences, Renal Sciences, Orthopedics 
and Cardiac Sciences grew by 16% YoY and contributed 62% 
to the total hospital revenues, similar to 62% in FY24. Revenue 
from International business recorded growth of 13 % in FY 
2024-25 to reach ₹ 539 Crores compared to ₹ 479 Crores in 
FY 2023-24.
The consolidated EBITDA of the Company stood at 
₹ 1,655 Crores compared to ₹ 1,306 Crores for the previous 
corresponding year. EBITDA margin of the Company stood at 
21.3 % versus 18.9% in FY 2023-24. Hospital business EBITDA 
for FY 2024-25 was at ₹ 1,381 Crores compared to ₹ 1,077 
Crores reported for FY 2023-24. The EBITDA margin of the 
hospital business stood at 21.1% versus 18.9% in FY24.
The diagnostic business of the Company reported EBITDA of 
₹ 274 Crores compared to ₹ 229 Crores reported in the 
corresponding previous year. The EBITDA margin of the 
diagnostic business stood at 19.5% versus 16.7% (basis gross 
revenue) for the year FY 2023-24. 
Profit after tax for FY 2024-25 stood at ₹ 809 Crores compared 
to the PAT of ₹ 645 Crores in FY 2023-24. PAT includes an 
exceptional loss  of ` 89.3 Crores in FY 2024-25 primarily 
pertaining to impairment movement in an associate Company 
and  impairment of assets in a subsidiary company, offset by 
gain of ` 23.5 Cr related to the divestment of the  Richmond 
Road, Bangalore facility in December 2024 and ` 16.0 Crores 
in FY 2023-24 which pertains to the reversal of impairment in 
an associate company and profit related to the divestment of 
Chennai facilities.
The Company’s net debt stood at ₹ 1,694 Crores as on March 
31, 2025 compared to ₹ 264 Crores as on March 31, 2024 
(net debt to equity of 0.18x versus 0.03x in FY24). Net debt to 
EBITDA stood at 0.93x as on March 31, 2025 as compared to 
the 0.17x as on March 31, 2024 (basis Q4 annualized EBITDA). 
As one of the leading, accredited, private healthcare chains 
in India, the Company strives to pursue the highest standards 
in patient care while endeavoring to achieve a superlative 
patient experience and high-quality clinical outcomes across 
its medical specialties. The Company’s healthcare facilities 
are well supported by its investments in the state-of-the-art 
medical infrastructure and equipment enabling it to provide 
advanced treatment options to its patients. The Company’s 
clinical and paramedical talent allow it to consistently promote 
high standards of tertiary and quaternary healthcare services 
in its key specialties such as Cardiac Sciences, Oncology, 
Neurosciences, Orthopedics, and transplants.
The Company has progressed well on the strategic priorities 
that it had outlined for itself in FY25. During the year 2024-
25, the Company further strengthened its prime medical 
programs in key facilities across India with addition of several 
eminent clinicians in Neurology, Cardiac Sciences, Oncology, 
Gastroenterology, Orthopedics, and Gynecology. The Company 
augmented its medical infrastructure by commissioning Gamma 
Knife, MR LINAC, Surgical Robots, in some of its key facilities 
such as FMRI, FEHI, and others. FMRI is equipped with both 
Gamma Knife and MR-LINAC technologies under one roof, 
reaffirming the Company’s commitment to offering the most 
advanced treatment options.
The Financial Year 2024-25 has witnessed good progress for 
Company’s key growth levers, including inorganic growth, 
portfolio rationalization and brownfield bed expansion. As 
part of Company’s inorganic growth strategy, Fortis through its 
wholly owned subsidiary signed definitive agreement in February 
2025 to acquire Shrimann Superspecialty Hospital in Jalandhar, 
Punjab for ` 462 crores. This acquisition will add 228 beds to 
Company’s network and offers the potential to increase the 
facility’s total capacity to over 450 beds. This transaction will 
allow to further strengthen Company’s presence in Punjab region 
from approximately 800 beds to over 1,000 beds.
Continuing with the portfolio rationalization strategy, the 
Company has divested business operations of Richmond Road 
Hospital in Bangalore in December 2024. This is the third facility 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
74
divested by the Company after the divestment of Malar facility 
and Vadapalani facility in Chennai.
In December 2024, the Company raised ₹ 1,550 crores through 
the issuance of non-convertible debentures. Leveraging 
these funds, along with internal accruals, the Company has 
consolidated its stake in Agilus by acquiring 31.52% stake from 
private equity investors. As a result, FHL now holds 89.20% 
equity stake in Agilus.
Recently, in April 2025, the Company has also successfully 
acquired the ‘Fortis’ brand and trademarks, for a consideration 
of ` 200 crores.
The healthcare vertical of the Company primarily comprises 
day care specialty, diagnostics and tertiary and quaternary 
care. As of March 31, 2025, the Company had a network of 
27 healthcare facilities in India with ~4,750 operational beds 
including beds under the O&M model.
There has been no change in the nature of business of 
the Company during the year under review. The Company 
continues its endeavor to provide quality healthcare services 
with an emphasis on high degree of clinical outcomes and an 
unparalleled patient experience.
(further information on Company performance is detailed in 
the Company section of the “Management Discussion and 
Analysis” in the Annual Report).
SIGNIFICANT MATTERS DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW
The Company strategically reviewed and prioritised key areas 
to drive revenues and operational performance. These include 
aspects related to evaluating the current portfolio of the 
Company’s facilities and planned bed expansion, initiating 
cost optimisation measures across the network, investing in 
technology and medical equipment and further strengthening 
its clinical excellence program. Details about which are 
mentioned in the Business Strategy section of the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report (‘MDA’).
Further, the Board has from time to time during the year 
under review updated its stakeholders regarding the key 
developments that took place by disseminating necessary 
information to the stock exchanges and through various means 
of communications to the investors. Some of these key matters 
pertaining to previous years are mentioned below:
Post a successful bid, your Company had entered into share 
subscription Agreement dated July 13, 2018, for issuance 
of 235,294,117 Shares at a price of ` 170 per share for an 
aggregate consideration upto ` 4,000 Crores (Rupees Four 
Thousand Crores only) to Northern TK Venture Pte Limited 
(“NTK”), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of IHH Berhad 
(‘IHH’). Consequently, after obtaining regulatory and statutory 
approvals such as from Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Competition Commission of India and in terms of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, IHH made Mandatory Open Offer 
for acquisition of upto 197,025,660 Equity Shares representing 
additional 26% of the expanded voting share capital of your 
Company (“Fortis Open Offer”) and another Mandatory Open 
Offer for acquisition of up to 4,894,308 fully paid up equity 
shares of face value of ` 10 each, representing 26% of the 
fully diluted voting equity share capital of Fortis Malar Hospitals 
Limited (“Fortis Malar Open Offer”).
After the Preferential Allotment on November 13, 2018, public 
announcement was made on December 07, 2018 regarding 
Fortis Open Offer and Fortis Malar Open Offer, thereafter the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court of India had on December 14, 2018 
passed an order (“Status Quo Order”) directing “status quo 
with regard to sale of the controlling stake in Fortis Healthcare 
to Malaysian IHH Healthcare Berhad be maintained”. In light of 
the Status Quo Order, Fortis Open Offer and Fortis Malar Open 
Offer were put on hold until further order(s)/clarification(s)/
direction(s) issued by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. Vide 
its order dated November 15, 2019, the Hon’ble Supreme Court 
had issued suo-moto contempt notice to, among others, your 
Company, and directed its Registry to register a fresh contempt 
petition in regard to alleged violation of the Status Quo Order 
(“Contempt Petition”).
Petitions before the Hon’ble Supreme Court including the 
suomoto contempt have been disposed of vide judgement 
dated September 22, 2022 (“Judgement”). No finding of 
contempt has been made against either your Company, or its 
independent directors. Based on legal advice, the Company 
is of the clear view that the Status Quo Order dated 14th 
December 2018 no longer exists. Therefore, your Company is 
continuing to pursue actions which are in the best interest of its 
shareholders and itself. Our promoter is simultaneously seeking 
legal counsel for pursuing and securing the Open Offer.
In the Judgement, it has been stated by the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court that RHT Transaction appeared prima facie to be an 
acquisition of proprietary interest to subserve the business 
structure of the Company. It also passed certain directions 
inter alia, that the High Court of Delhi may consider issuing 
appropriate process and appointing forensic auditor(s) to 
analyze the transactions entered into between FHL and RHT 
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
75
and other related transactions. Your Company plans to 
strenuously object to any contemplation of a forensic given that 
in the Judgment, no wrongdoing by the Company had even 
been alluded to. The Company’s stated position is that these 
transactions were done in compliance with applicable laws, 
post requisite corporate and regulatory approvals and necessary 
disclosures/announcements. Currently, Your Company, is 
vehemently opposing the application filed by Daiichi before the 
High court for appointment of forensic auditor.
OTHER RELEVANT MATTERS
Based on complaint filed by your Company with the Economic 
Offences Wing (“EOW”) in November 2020 against the 
erstwhile promoters/erstwhile promoters group company 
in respect of certain transactions, First Information Report 
(FIR) was registered on July 03, 2021, against them. EOW 
is investigating the matter. The said Complaint is also being 
investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and the Company 
is co-operating and providing requisitioned documents/
information to it. Further, pursuant to the order dated February 
17, 2018 of MCA, SFIO has been investigating into the affairs 
of your Company/its subsidiaries. The Company is co-operating 
in the said investigation.
Fortis Hospitals Limited had filed a civil suit for recovery of 
Rupees 52,019 Lakhs before Hon’ble Delhi High Court against 
the ex-promoters and certain entities which is sub-judice.
DIVIDEND AND TRANSFER TO RESERVES
The Board of Directors has recommended a final dividend of 
` 1 (One) per equity share at the rate of 10% of the face value 
of the shares of the Company for the year ended March 31, 
2025, be paid subject to the approval of the shareholders, 
to those shareholders whose names appear in the register of 
members as on the record date in proportion to the paid up 
value of the equity shares. The record date for the purpose of 
dividend will be Friday, July 25, 2025.
Refer the Company’s policy on Dividend Distribution available 
on the website of the Company at https://www.fortishealthcare.
com/investors/policies-&-code/483
During the financial year ended March 31, 2025, no amount 
(previous year: nil) transferred to general reserves.
Further, the Statement of Changes in Equity is forming part of 
the Standalone and Consolidated financial statements.
MATERIAL CHANGES
There are no material changes and commitments, affecting 
the financial position of your Company which have occurred in 
FY 2024-25, except as disclosed in this Annual Report.
The following changes took place during the year under review:
1)	
Your Company has issued 1,55,000 (One lac and fifty-
five thousand) listed, senior, secured, rated, redeemable 
Non-Convertible Debenture each having a face value of 
` 1,00,000/- (Indian Rupees One lac) and an aggregate 
value of up to ` 1550,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees 
One Thousand Five Hundred and Fifty Crores only) 
(“Debentures” or “NCDs”) on a private placement basis 
to the eligible investors.
2)	
Your Company has acquired 5,970,149, equity shares 
as held by International Finance Corporation (“IFC”), 
1,24,37,811 equity shares as held by NYLIM Jacob Ballas 
India Fund III LLC (“NJBIF”) and 63,10,315 equity shares 
held by Resurgence PE Investments Limited (formerly 
known as Avigo PE Investments Limited) (“Resurgence”) 
(representing 7.61%, 15.86% and 8.05% equity stake 
respectively) in Agilus Diagnostics Limited (a material 
subsidiary of the Company) from IFC, NJBIF and Resurgence 
respectively.
3)	
Material subsidiary i.e Fortis Hospitals Limited (“FHsL”) 
of your Company has divested its business operations of 
Richmond Road facility, Bangalore in December 2024, to 
continue with the portfolio rationalization strategy.
4)	
Your Company through its material subsidiary i.e 
Fortis Hospotel Limited (“FHTL”) has signed definitive 
agreements for the acquisition of entire business 
operations 
of 
Shrimann 
Superspecialty 
Hospital 
(“Shrimann Hospital”) in Jalandhar, Punjab along with the 
underlying hospital land and the adjacent land thereto, as 
a part of Company’s inorganic strategy.
5)	
Your Company has participated in the auction conducted 
on December 21, 2024, for ‘Fortis’ brand and allied 
trademarks, by the Court appointed auctioneer, wherein 
your Company was declared as the successful bidder and 
Bid price was ` 200 Crores.
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
76
STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF ADEQUACY OF INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS 
WITH 
REFERENCE 
TO 
THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statutory Auditors in their report to the Board of Directors on 
the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“The Act”) have given the opinion that the Company and 
such companies incorporated in India which are its subsidiary 
companies have, in all material respects, adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements and the financial statements of the Company and 
such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 
March 31, 2025, based on the internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements and the financial 
statements of the Company, criteria established considering 
the essential components of such internal controls stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. The Auditor’s opinion on adequacy and 
operating effectiveness of internal control is self-explanatory.
DETAILS OF SUBSIDIARY/JOINT VENTURES/ASSOCIATE 
COMPANIES
During the year, the Company acquired an additional 
31.52%  equity stake (existing 57.68% equity stake) in Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited, comprising 2,47,18,275 equity shares. This 
acquisition was made from private equity investors, including 
Resurgence PE Investments Limited (formerly known as Avigo 
PE Investments Limited) – 63,10,315 shares, International 
Finance Corporation – 59,70,149 shares, and NYLIM Jacob 
Ballas India Fund III LLC – 1,24,37,811 shares.
Further note that your Board of Directors have adopted a 
policy for determining “material subsidiary” pursuant to 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015/SEBI Listing 
Regulations”). The said policy is available at https://www.
fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-code/483
In terms of the said policy, as on April 01, 2025, Fortis 
Hospitals Limited (FHsL), International Hospital Limited (IHL), 
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL) and Agilus Diagnostics Limited 
(ADL) are considered as Material Subsidiary(ies). Necessary 
compliances w.r.t. material subsidiaries have been duly carried 
out in accordance with Regulation 24(1) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The copies of the Secretarial Audit Reports of 
the material subsidiaries issued by the Company Secretary in 
Practice forms part of this report.
Further, no subsidiary/Joint venture/ Associate Companies has 
been added or ceased during the period under review except 
the increase in the shareholding Agilus Diagnostics Limited as 
disclosed above.
PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL POSITION OF EACH OF 
THE SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURE 
COMPANIES
The consolidated financial statements of your Company and its 
subsidiaries, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting 
standards, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India, forms part of the Annual Report. In terms of the Section 
136 of the Companies Act, 2013, financial statements of 
the subsidiary companies are not required to be sent to the 
members of the Company. Your Company will provide a copy 
of separate annual accounts in respect of each of its subsidiary 
to any shareholder of the Company who asks for it and said 
annual accounts will be available for inspection and are also 
available on the website of the Company. Performance and 
financial position of each of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint 
Ventures included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
your Company is enclosed herewith as “Annexure - I” in the 
prescribed format (Form AOC-1).
The contribution of the subsidiary/associates/joint venture 
companies to the overall performance of your Company 
is outlined in Note No. 26 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
LOANS/ADVANCES/INVESTMENTS/GUARANTEES
Particulars of Loans/Advances/Investments/guarantees given 
and outstanding during the FY 2024-25 forms part of the Notes 
to the Financial Statements.
PUBLIC DEPOSITS
During the financial year under review, your Company had not 
invited or accepted any deposits from the public, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 73 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
Companies (Acceptance of Deposit) Rules, 2014 and therefore, 
no amount of principal or interest was outstanding in respect of 
deposits from the Public as of the date of Balance Sheet.
UTILISATION OF FUNDS
The details of utilisation of funds earlier raised through 
preferential allotment are mentioned in Notes to Financial 
Statements. During the year under review, no preferential 
allotment was made by the Company for the equity shares.
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
77
Your Company has issued 1,55,000 (One lac and fifty-five 
thousand) listed, senior, secured, rated, redeemable Non-
Convertible Debenture each having a face value of ` 1,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees One lac) and an aggregate value of up to 
` 1550,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees One Thousand Five 
Hundred and Fifty Crores only) (“Debentures” or “NCDs”) on 
a private placement basis to the eligible investors to acquire an 
additional 31.52% equity stake in Agilus Diagnostics Limited. 
The details of utilisation of funds are mentioned in Notes to 
Financial Statements.
AUDITORS
M/s B S R & Co. LLP, (Registration No. 101248W/W- 100022), 
Chartered Accountants, were re-appointed as Statutory 
Auditors of your Company, by the shareholders in the 28th 
Annual General Meeting held on August 2, 2024 for a second 
term of four years i.e. up to the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting to be held in the year 2028.
The Notes on financial statements referred to in the Auditors’ 
Report are self-explanatory and do not call for any further 
comments. The Auditors’ Report does not contain any 
qualification, reservation or adverse remark. However, the 
Statutory Auditors have, in their report to the Board of Directors 
on the consolidated financial statements of the Company made 
the following comments which are self- explanatory and are 
categorised as “Emphasis of Matter”, hence no comments in 
this regard have been offered by your Board of Directors:
a)	
Note 27 and 28 of the consolidated financial statements 
which deals with various matters including the ongoing 
investigation by Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO 
on Fortis Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries regarding 
alleged improper transactions and non-compliances 
with laws and regulations including Companies Act, 
2013 (including matters relating to remuneration paid 
to managerial personnel). These transactions and non- 
compliances relate to or originated prior to take over of 
control by reconstituted board of directors of Fortis in the 
year ended March 31, 2018. As mentioned in the note, the 
Group has been submitting information required by SFIO 
and is also cooperating in the regulatory investigations.
b)	
As explained in the said note, the Group had recorded 
significant adjustments/provisions in its books of account 
during the year ended March 31, 2018. The Company had 
launched legal proceedings and also filed a complaint with 
the Economic Offences Wing (‘EOW’) against erstwhile 
promoters and their related entities based on the findings 
of the investigation conducted by the Group. Further, 
based on management’s detailed analysis and consultation 
with external legal counsel, a further provision has been 
made and recognised in the year ended March 31, 2021 
for any contingency that may arise from the aforesaid 
issues. As per the management, any further financial 
impact, to the extent it can be reliably estimated as at 
present, is not expected to be material.
c)	
Note 30A of the consolidated financial statements relating 
to the order dated September 22, 2022 of the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court, whereby it has directed the Hon’ble High 
Court of Delhi inter alia that it may also consider issuing 
appropriate process and appointing forensic auditor(s) 
to analyse the transactions entered into between the 
Company and RHT Health Trust and other related 
transactions. The above-mentioned Note also states that 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed that prima facie, 
it appears to be acquisition of proprietary interest of RHT 
Health Trust by the Holding Company are to subserve the 
business structure of the Holding Company.
	
Further, as per the requirement of Companies Auditor 
Report Order (CARO), Rules, 2016, there was no fraud 
other than as disclosed pertaining to earlier years reported 
by the above stated auditors during the year under review.
	
Cost Auditor
	
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 
2014, the cost audit records maintained by your Company 
in respect of its hospital activity is required to be audited. 
Your Directors had, on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee and the Board of Directors, appointed M/s. 
Jitender, Navneet & Co., (Firm Registration No.: 000119), Cost 
Auditors to audit the cost accounts of your Company for the 
FY 2024-25 at a remuneration of Upto ` 2,95,000/- (Rupees 
Two Lakhs Ninety Five Thousand only) plus applicable taxes 
and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred 
in connection with the cost audit. As required under the 
Companies Act, 2013, the remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditors is required to be placed before the Members in a 
general meeting for ratification. Accordingly, a resolution 
seeking member’s ratification for the remuneration payable 
to M/s Jitender, Navneet & Co., Cost Auditors is included in 
the Notice convening the ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
Further, in terms of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, 
it is confirmed that maintenance of cost records as specified 
by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of Section 
148 of the Companies Act, 2013, is applicable on your 
Company and accordingly such accounts and records are 
properly made and maintained.
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
78
	
The Report of the Cost Auditors for the FY 2023-24 does 
not contain any qualifications, reservations or adverse 
remarks and the comments given by the Cost Auditors 
are self- explanatory and hence do not call for any further 
explanations or comments.
	
Secretarial Auditor
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
M/s. Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company Secretaries 
(Firm Registration No. S2006DE086800), was appointed 
by the Board as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
for the Financial Year 2024-25. Further, the Company has 
recommended the appointment of M/s. Neelam Gupta 
& Associates, Company Secretaries for a term of 5 (five) 
consecutive years commencing from Financial Year April 1, 
2025 to March 31, 2030, to undertake secretarial audit of 
the Company.
	
Accordingly, a resolution seeking appointment and 
fixation of fees of Secretarial Auditors of the Company is 
included in Notice convening the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting.
	
Further, M/s Neelam Gupta & Associates, Company 
Secretaries, has also submitted her consent to act as 
the Secretarial Auditors of the Company and have 
confirmed that they fulfil the criteria as specified in clause 
(a) of Regulation 24A(1A) of SEBI Listing Regulations 
and further confirmed that they have not incurred any 
of disqualifications as specified by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India.
	
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 24A, 
the secretarial audit report of the Company and its 
material subsidiaries are attached as “Annexure- II” and 
“Annexure- II(A)” respectively. Further, the Report of the 
Secretarial Auditor for the FY 2024-25 does not contain 
any qualification, reservation or adverse remarks. The 
Secretarial Audit Report confirms that the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations 
and Guidelines and that there were no deviations or non-
compliances.
	
Internal Auditors
	
The Company has a well-established, independent and 
in-house Internal Audit function that is responsible 
for providing assurance on compliance with operating 
systems, internal policies and legal requirements, as well as 
suggesting improvements to systems and processes. The 
Internal Audit function monitors and evaluates the efficiency 
and adequacy of internal control systems in the Company.
	
The Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit 
Committee. Key internal audit findings are presented to 
the Audit Committee.
	
For FY25, Internal Audit(s) were performed in accordance 
with the Internal Audit plan approved by the Audit 
Committee.
	
In addition to the internal IA team conducting audit(s) 
covering key business processes as per approved plan, 
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP and Grant Thorton 
Bharat LLP were engaged as an external service provider 
to perform Internal Audit for specific processes.
	
Compliance of Secretarial Standard
	
During the period under review, your Company has 
complied with the applicable provisions of Secretarial 
Standards issued by the The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
SIGNIFICANT & MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE 
REGULATORS
During FY 2017-18 the Company, the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI), initiated investigation w.r.t. siphoning of 
approx. ` 5 Billion by its ex-promoters. Post investigation, SEBI 
had issued two Show Cause Notices i.e., dated November 12, 
2020 (SCN 1) and April 9, 2021 (SCN 2), respectively. 
A Show-Cause Notice (SCN- 1) was issued by SEBI to various 
entities including the Company and FHsL on November 20, 2020. 
In the SCN- 1, it was inter-alia alleged that the consolidated 
financials of the Company at the relevant period were untrue 
and misleading for the shareholders of the Company and the 
Company had circumvented certain provisions of the SEBI Act, 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, and certain SEBI 
regulations. In response, a joint representation/reply was filed 
by the Company and FHsL on December 28, 2020 praying 
for quashing of the SCN- 1 by inter alia reiterating that the 
Company and FHsL, were in fact victims of the schemes of the 
Erstwhile Promoters (Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder 
Mohan Singh) and justice, equity and fairness demands that 
the victim ought not be punished for the offences of the 
wrongdoers. All acts impugned in the SCN- 1 relate to the 
period when the Erstwhile Promoters controlled the affairs of 
Company and FHsL and the erstwhile Promoters are no longer 
involved in the affairs of the Company and FHsL. The Erstwhile 
Promoters were responsible for financial misrepresentation 
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
79
and not the Company and FHsL. Post resignation of the 
Erstwhile Promoters in February 2018, the Board of Directors 
of the Company, solely comprising Independent Directors 
looked after its welfare. The new promoter of the Company 
(i.e. NTK Venture Pte. Ltd.) assumed control of the Company 
pursuant to a preferential allotment, which was approved 
by both Competition Commission of India and SEBI, which 
approved the open offer that had got triggered pursuant to 
such preferential allotment. Any adverse orders against the 
Company and FHsL would harm their existing shareholders, 
employees and creditors. The Company and FHsL have taken 
substantial legal actions against the Erstwhile Promoters and 
significant steps to recover the diverted amounts. SEBI passed 
an order dated 19.04.2022 w.r.t SCN -1 directing the Company 
& FHsL to pursue the measures taken to recover the amount 
of ` 397.12 Crores (approx.) along with the interest from 
Erstwhile Promoters; & Audit Committee to regularly monitor 
the progress of such measures and report the same to board 
of directors at regular intervals. SEBI had imposed a penalty of 
` 50 lakh and ` 1 Crore on FHsL and the Company respectively.
On April 09, 2021, SEBI issued another Show cause notice 
(SCN - 2) to various noticees including Escorts Heart Institute 
and Research Centre Limited (“EHIRCL”). In the said show 
cause notice, with respect to EHIRCL, it was alleged that ` 567 
crore was lent by the Company to EHIRCL in 2011, which was 
subsequently transferred by EHIRCL to Lowe Infra and Wellness 
Private Limited (“Lowe”) in multiple transactions for the 
purchase of a land parcel. This land parcel, which was allegedly 
indirectly to be acquired by the Company through its subsidiary 
EHIRCL and another entity Lowe, was then transferred to RHC 
Holdings Private Limited (“RHC Holdings”). It was stated in the 
said Show cause notice that a structured rotation of funds was 
carried out to portray that the loan extended by the Company 
for the purchase of land had been paid back with interest in 
the year 2011. It is alleged that the Company was actually paid 
back by RHC Holding over a period of four years ending on July 
31, 2015. In this respect, the Company and FHsL funds were 
allegedly routed through various layers in order to camouflage 
the transactions, and to circumvent legal provisions with respect 
to related party transactions.
In the Show cause Notice dated April 09, 2021 EHIRCL had been 
clubbed along with the other noticees, and had been painted 
with the same brush as the other noticees in alleging that 
certain noticees, including EHIRCL, were part of a fraudulent 
and deceptive device wherein they acted in fraudulent manner 
which led to the misuse and/or diversion of funds from a listed 
company i.e. FHL, amounting to approximately ` 397.12 crore 
for the ultimate benefit of RHC Holdings and the erstwhile 
promoters. Thereby, it is alleged that EHIRCL has aided and 
abetted the routing of funds from the Company, ultimately to 
RHC Holdings, for the benefit of the promoter entities.
Further, after adjudicating the Show Cause Notice dated April 
09, 2021, SEBI passed an order dated 18.5.2022 wherein it held 
that EHIRCL is responsible for fraudulent scheme perpetrated at 
the behest of the then management of FHL/FHsL for the benefit 
of their then promoters and therefore has violated the relevant 
provisions of SEBI (PFUTP) Regulations. SEBI acknowledged the 
fact that EHIRCL working under a completely new management 
presently and the said revamped management has already taken 
steps against the erstwhile promoters for the fraud perpetrated 
under their watch, shall serve as a mitigating factor while 
computing the penalty under section 15HA of the SEBI Act. 
Having said this, SEBI vide order dated 18.5.2022 imposed a 
penalty of ` 1 crore on EHIRCL for violation of certain provisions 
of SEBI laws. The reasoning that was adopted for imposition of 
penalty on EHIRCL appears to be exactly on the same lines as 
the reasoning in the case of FHL and FHsL.
SEBI vide order dated May 18, 2022, passed in the Show Cause 
Notice dated April 09, 2021, imposed a penalty of ` 1 (one) 
Crore on EHIRCL after finding that there has been violation 
of certain provisions of SEBI laws. While imposing the said 
penalty, SEBI acknowledged that EHIRCL working under a 
completely new management presently and the said revamped 
management have already initiated civil and criminal actions 
against the erstwhile promoters for the fraud perpetrated 
under their watch.
Both the orders dated 19.4.2022 and 18.5.2022 passed by 
SEBI have been appealed against by the Company, FHsL and 
EHIRCL before Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai (“SAT”). 
On deposit of 50% of the penalty amount, in respect of FHSL 
& FHL, recovery of total penalty amount has been stayed and in 
respect of EHIRCL, operation of SEBI Order 18.5.2022 has been 
stayed. Appeals are pending adjudication.
During the Financial Year, Hon’ble High Court of Delhi on October 
29, 2024 directed the Learned Joint Registrar – High Court of 
Delhi to conduct auction of ‘Fortis’ brand and allied trademarks. 
In the auction conducted on December 21, 2024 by the Court 
appointed auctioneer, only your Company participated and was 
declared as the successful bidder. Bid price was ` 200 Crores. 
Owner of brand ‘Fortis’ had objected to the valuation of brand 
and the auction process. However, the Hon’ble Court vide its 
order dated March 25, 2025 confirmed the sale of brand ‘Fortis’ 
in favor of your Company. As per bid condition, your Company 
has deposited ` 200 Crore with the Registrar General – High 
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
80
Court of Delhi. Applicable GST, if any, will be over & above 
the bid amount and will be paid at a later stage. Learned Joint 
Registrar- High Court of Delhi vide its order dated April 04, 2025 
has issued “Certificate of Sale” in favour of your Company.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE/STOCK OPTION
During the year under review, there is no change in the capital 
structure of the Company and no further stock options were 
granted under Employee Stock Option Plan 2007 and Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2011.
The Company currently manages its stock options through 
“Employee Stock Option Plan 2007” and “Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2011” (“Schemes”) as approved by the 
shareholders. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Board of Directors of the Company, inter alia, administers 
and monitors the Schemes of the Company. Each option when 
exercised would be converted into one fully paid up equity share 
of ` 10 each of the Company. During the year under review, no 
option was granted by the Company. Disclosure pursuant to the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 is available at the website of the Company at 
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/annual-reports/476.
The certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
stating that the Schemes have been implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI Regulations would be placed at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting for inspection by members.
The Company has not made any provision of money for purchase 
of, or subscription for, its own shares or of its holding Company.
Details pertaining to shares in suspense account are specified in 
the report of Corporate Governance forming part of the Board 
Report.
ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3)(a) of the 
Act, the Annual Return as on March 31, 2025 is available on 
the Company’s website at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/
investors/annual-return/479
ENERGY CONSERVATION, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
The particulars required under Section 134(3)(m) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, regarding Conservation of Energy and 
Technology Absorption, is given in “Annexure – III”, forming 
part of the Board’s Report. Further, details pertaining to Foreign 
Exchange Earnings and Outgo is as given below:
TOTAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNED AND USED (BASED 
ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)
(` in Crores)
Particulars
Amount
Foreign Exchange earned in terms of Actual 
Inflows
14.02
Foreign Exchange outgo in terms of Actual 
Outflows
5.36
Note: Earning and expenditure in foreign currency is on accrual 
basis.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY - OUR JOURNEY 
THROUGH THE PAST YEAR
The CSR Policy (approved by the Board of Directors) approaches 
this area under the philosophy that the Company’s efforts should 
strive towards building and sustaining healthier humanity and 
fostering the holistic well-being of communities. The policy 
elucidates the concept of growing our business in a socially and 
environmentally responsible manner through an active role in 
empowering communities and driving social development and 
positive change.
The policy has defined the roles and responsibilities 
associated with governance and administration of design and 
implementation of initiatives. It further clarifies the criteria for 
identifying eligible programmes, mechanisms for monitoring, 
evaluation and as well as reporting and disclosure requirements. 
As an enterprise in the critical domain of healthcare, the 
Company has participated and implemented various socially 
responsive programs since its inception. These programs are 
consistent with the themes outlined in the relevant Acts as well 
as the CSR policy of the organisation.
The policy as approved by the Board is available on the 
Company’s website at: https://www.fortishealthcare.com/
investors/policies-&-code/483
During the year, the Company engaged Sattva Media and 
Consulting Pvt. Ltd. (“Sattva Consulting”) as an external 
agency/advisor for undertaking CSR activities of the Company 
and its subsidiaries for the financial year 2024-2025. Further, 
Sattva Consulting is engaged in the business of, inter alia, 
providing consultancy services in the social impact sector and 
implementation of corporate social responsibility programmes/
initiatives.
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
81
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
The Board of Directors of your Company as on date of this 
report comprises Eleven (11) directors, of which one (1) is a 
Managing Director and CEO (Executive Director), four (4) are 
Independent Directors [including two (2) Women Directors] 
and rest of the six (6) directors are Non- Executive & Non-
Independent Directors. In accordance with the provisions 
of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles 
of Association of the Company, Mr. Tomo Nagahiro and Mr. 
Lim Tsin Lin, Non-Executive Non- Independent Directors are 
liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting and have offered themselves for re-appointment. 
On the recommendation from Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, the Board has recommended their re-appointment 
as the directors liable to retire by rotation.
As required under Regulation 36 of SEBI LODR and Secretarial 
Standards information or details of Mr. Tomo Nagahiro and Mr. 
Lim Tsin Lin, Non-Executive Non- Independent Directors, are 
provided in the Notice convening the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting.
The re-appointment of Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi as Managing 
Director (Designated as ‘Managing Director & CEO’) of the 
Company has been approved by the shareholders in the 28th 
Annual General Meeting held on August 02, 2024, effective 
from March 19, 2025 for a period of 2 years.	
This year Company and its subsidiaries contributed their CSR Fund to the Apprenticeship training, Whole School Transformation (School 
Infrastructure Upgrade), PHC Upgradation, Scholarship to MBBS students, Cancer Screening Camps and Upgrading Health and Wellness 
Centers, and the Digital Health Training as highlighted in the table shown below:
Qualifying Amount & Spent during the FY 2024-25
(Amt in (`))
Particulars
FHL
FHTL
IHL
TOTAL
FY 2024-25 (Qualifying amount)
`1,47,00,603
`6,08,51,293
`3,09,77,433 `10,65,29,329
Total (A)
`1,47,00,603
`6,08,51,293
`3,09,77,433 `10,65,29,329
Spent for
Smart Health and Wellness Center (HWC) & Cancer Screening 
Camps - FICCI
`52,10,437
`52,10,437
Primary healthcare center (PHC) upgradation - Society of 
Community Health Oriented Operational Links (SCHOOL)
`1,45,00,000
`55,00,000
`2,00,00,000
Digital Health Training - NATHealth
`5,00,000
`5,00,000
Whole School Transformation (School infrastructure upgrade) - 
YUVA Unstoppable 
`3,75,00,000
`3,75,00,000
Scholarships to MBBS Students - Foundation for Excellence
`50,00,000
`50,00,000
Apprenticeship Program - Direct Implementation
`1,37,91,859
`77,69,877
`1,48,08,356
`3,63,70,092
Consultancy Fee - Sattva Consulting
`4,08,744
`10,81,416
`4,58,640
`19,48,800
Total (B)
`1,47,00,603
`6,08,51,293
`3,09,77,433 `10,65,29,329
Report pursuant to Clause O of Sub-Section 3 of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 9 of Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014 is given in “Annexure IV”.
During the year under review, Mr. Ravi Rajagopal resigned 
from the Directorship & Chairmanship of the Company w.e.f. 
September 30, 2024.
Consequent to the resignation of Mr. Ravi Rajagopal as 
Chairman of the Company w.e.f. September 30, 2024, Mr. 
Indrajit Banerjee was appointed as the regular Chairman w.e.f. 
October 1, 2024, till the time vacancy is filled.
Mr. Leo Puri was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. December 27, 
2024 and had also been designated as Chairman of the Board. 
Consequently, Mr. Indrajit Banerjee has passed on the position 
of the Chairman to Mr. Leo Puri and continued being a member 
of the Board as an Independent Director.
Further pursuant to the Regulation 17(1)(c) of the SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company obtained the approval of 
shareholders confirming the appointment of Mr. Leo Puri as 
Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company vide 
postal ballot on March 20, 2025.
No director of the Company was disqualified to become/
continue as Director of the Company, in terms of the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder.
There is no inter-se relationship between the Board Members.
During the FY 2024-25, Ten (10) meetings were held by the 
Board of Directors. The details of board/committee meetings 
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
82
The following process of evaluation was approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors:
Sr. 
No.
Process
Remarks
Criteria for Evaluation (including Independent 
Directors)
1.
Kick Off Board 
Evaluation 
Program
The NRC Chairperson kick starts the process. 
The relevant questionnaires were circulated to 
the Board members.
-
2.
Evaluation forms
The feedback so received from the members 
on the process was collated by Chief Human 
Resource Officer (CHRO).
This includes Board focus (Strategic inputs), Board 
Meeting 
Management, 
suggestions 
to 
improve 
Board performance Board Effectiveness Management 
Engagement, governance, risk management and 
addressing of follow up requests.
3.
Evaluation by 
the Board and 
of Independent 
Directors
A compilation of the individual self-assessments 
was placed at the meeting of the Board of 
Directors to review collectively.
This includes demonstration of integrity, commitment, 
attendance 
at 
the 
meetings, 
contribution 
and 
participation, 
professionalism, 
contribution 
while 
developing Annual Operating Plans, demonstration of 
roles and responsibilities, review of high risk issues & 
grievance redressal mechanism, succession planning, 
Effectiveness of Board Committees etc.
4.
Final recording 
and reporting
Based on the findings of the assessment, CHRO 
circulated a report to the Board members for 
further discussion and action planning.
Based on the above, a final report on Board 
Evaluation 2024-25 was presented at a meeting 
of the Board of Directors held in May 2025.
The report includes key highlights, a presentation of 
an analysis of each response, actionable insights and 
comments.
and the attendance of Directors are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Details of Key Managerial Personnel are as under:
Name
Designation
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer
Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Satyendra Chauhan
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer
Disclosures regarding the following are mentioned in report on 
Corporate Governance forming part of this report.
1.	
Composition of Committee(s) of the Board of Director and 
other details;
2.	
Details of establishment of Vigil Mechanism;
3.	
Details of remuneration paid to all the Directors including 
Stock options; and
4.	
Commission received by Independent Directors; if any.
BOARD EVALUATION
Pursuant to the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Board and the respective committees are required 
to carry out performance evaluation of the Board as a body, 
the Directors individually, Chairman as well as that of its 
Committees.
The Nomination of Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and 
the Board have laid down the manner in which formal annual 
evaluation of the performance of the Board, it’s committees 
and individual directors is required to be made.
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
83
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
MANAGERIAL REMUNERATION
Details pertaining to Remuneration as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
(a)	
The Ratio of the Remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the Employees of the Company for 
the FY 2024-25* along with the percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 
Executive Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, during the financial year under review:
Name of the Director
Designation
Remuneration 
of Director/
KMP for FY 
2024-25  
(`in Crores)
Median 
Remuneration 
of Employees 
(`in Crores)
Ratio of 
remuneration 
of each Director 
to the median 
remuneration 
of the 
employees
% Increase/
Decrease in 
remuneration 
in FY 2024-25
1.	
Dr. Ashutosh 
Raghuvanshi*
Managing 
Director and 
Chief Executive 
Officer
9.59
0.0434
220.97:1
6.00% !
2. 	
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal**
Chairman 
(Independent 
Director)
0.51
11.75:1
NA
3. 	
Mr. Dilip Kadambi#
Non-Executive 
Director
0.10
2.30:1
0.00%
4. 	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee#
Independent 
Director
1.05
24.19:1
5.00%@
5. 	
Ms. Shailaja Chandra#
Independent 
Director
1.05
24.19:1
5.00%@
6. 	
Ms. Suvalaxmi 
Chakraborty#
Independent 
Director
0.94
21.66:1
5.62%@
7. 	
Mr. Mehmet Ali 
Aydinlar#
Non-Executive 
Director
0.04
0.92:1
(50.00%) 
8. 	
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro#
Non-Executive 
Director
0.08
1.84:1
(20.00%) 
9. 	
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin^
Non-Executive 
Director
-
-
-
10. 	 Mr. Ashok Pandit#
Non-Executive 
Director
0.18
4.15:1
50.00%
11. 	 Dr. Prem Kumar Nair#
Non-Executive 
Director
0.14
3.23:1
75.00%
12. 	 Mr. Leo Puri***
Chairman 
(Independent 
Director)
0.55
12.67:1
NA
13. 	 Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal
Chief Financial 
Officer
5.51
126.96:1
11.42% !
14. 	 Mr. Satyendra Chauhan Company 
Secretary & 
Compliance 
Officer
1.01
23.27:1
NA$
	
* Annual salary paid, including taxable perquisites, excluding interest accrued on employer contributions to Provident Fund and 
National Pension Scheme for prior periods, as well as reimbursements made against submitted expense bills. 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
84
	
# All Non-Executive Directors including Independent Directors are paid sitting fees on the basis of their attendance at the Board/ 
Committee Meetings. Any variation highlighted above in the remuneration of these Directors is on account of the number of 
meetings held or attended during the year. Further, Independent Directors were also eligible for the commission, during the 
period under review.
	
** Mr. Ravi Rajagopal resigned as Chairman & Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. September 30, 2024 and consequent 
to the resignation of Mr. Ravi Rajagopal as Chairman of the Company, Mr. Indrajit Banerjee was appointed as the regular 
Chairman of the Board, with effect from October 1, 2024, till the time vacancy is filled.
	
*** Mr. Leo Puri was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. December 27, 
2024 and had also been designated as Chairman of the Board.
	
$ Appointed during FY 2023-24 i.e. from March 01, 2024, hence the remuneration paid for FY 2024-25 is not comparable.
	
^ No sitting Fee/commission paid.
	
@ Due to increase in commission and/or sitting fees for meetings attended. 
	
! Increment percentage is calculated on the Total Cost To The Company (TCTC).
(b) 	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year- 11.16%
	
Increases in annual CTC of active employees between the current and last financial year are considered to compute the above 
figure.
(c) 	 The number of permanent employees on the roll of the Company is 3184 as on March 31, 2025, this includes the full 
-time retainers.
(d) 	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the 
last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification 
thereof and any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration **
Particulars
For the Financial Year 2024-25
(A)	 Average percentile increases already made in the salaries 
of employees other than the managerial personnel
11.54%
(B)	
Percentile increase in the managerial remuneration
8.71%
Comparison of (A) and (B)
+2.83%
Justification
The Company’s average salary increment, excluding KMPs, is 
11.54%. The percentage increment varies across job grades, 
with lower grades typically receiving higher increments 
compared to senior grades. 
Additionally, market corrections are also factored into the 
overall increment.
Any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration
Not Applicable
	
**Percentage (%) increase in salary has been calculated by comparing the salaries of active employees as of 31/03/2025 with 
their salaries as of 31/03/2024, considering only those who received an increment during the year
(e) 	 Remuneration paid to Directors and KMPs is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
85
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
REMUNERATION POLICY
On the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, the Board has framed a policy for selecting 
and appointing Directors, Senior Management, and their 
remuneration including criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes, independence of a Director, etc. Details of 
the Remuneration Policy and changes, if any, are stated in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
Your Company has from time to time familiarised the Board 
of Directors with the Company’s operations, their roles, rights, 
responsibilities in your Company, nature of the industry in which 
your Company operates, business model of your Company, 
etc. The same is governed by a template viz Board of Directors 
Governance Standard and it is available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/
policies-&-code/483
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
The information required pursuant to Section 197 read with 
Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 in respect of employees 
of your Company, will be provided upon request. In terms 
of Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Report and 
Accounts are being sent to the Members and others entitled 
thereto, excluding the information on employees’ particulars 
which is available for inspection by the Members  at the 
Registered Office and / or Corporate Office of the Company 
during business hours between 10.00 am to 12.00 noon on 
working days (Except Saturday and Sunday) of the Company 
up to the date of the ensuing Annual General Meeting. If any 
Member is interested in obtaining a copy thereof, such Member 
may write to the Company Secretary in this regard.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Disclosures as required under Section 134(3)(h) read with 
Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, are given 
in “Annexure - V” in Form AOC- 2 as specified under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
The Related Party Transactions are placed before the Audit 
Committee for approval as required under SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
Prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is obtained 
for the transactions which are of a foreseeable and repetitive 
nature. The transactions entered into pursuant to the omnibus 
approval so granted are audited and a statement giving details 
of all related party transactions is placed before the Audit 
Committee for their review on a quarterly basis. The policy on 
Related Party Transactions as approved by the Board is uploaded 
on the Company’s website at https://www.fortishealthcare.
com/investors/policies-&-code/483.
None of the current Directors has any pecuniary relationship 
or transaction vis-à-vis your Company, except to the extent 
of sitting fees and remuneration/commission approved by the 
Board of Directors and/or shareholders of your Company and as 
disclosed in this Annual Report.
APPLICATION MADE OR ANY PROCEEDING PENDING 
UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE AND 
DISCLOSURE ON ONE-TIME SETTLEMENT 
As on the date of the Report no application is pending under 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and the Company 
did not file any application under (‘IBC’) during the FY 2024-25. 
Further, the Company has not made any one-time settlement
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY AND FRAMEWORK
The Company has a robust process for managing the top risks, 
overseen by the RMC. As part of this process, the Company 
has identified the risks with the highest impact and then 
assigned a likely probability of occurrence. Your company has 
also defined quantitative key risk indicators (KRIs) to monitor 
the effectiveness of actions take to mitigate the identified risks. 
Mitigation plans for each risk have also been put in place and 
are reviewed by the Management every six months before 
presenting to the RMC. The RMC has set out a review process 
to report to the Board on the progress of the initiatives for the 
major risks of each of the businesses.
POLICY FOR PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL 
OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Your Company has adopted a Policy for Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal of Sexual Harassment. As per the requirement of 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder, 
your Company has constituted Internal Complaints Committees 
(ICC). During the Financial Year 2024-25, your Company 
has received 7 complaints on sexual harassment and all 7 
complaints have been resolved with appropriate action taken 
and no complaint was pending as on March 31, 2025. 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
As per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, Corporate Governance Report with 
Auditors’ certificate thereon are attached, which forms part of 
this report.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
86
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 143(12) of the 
Companies Act 2013, neither the Statutory Auditors nor the 
Secretarial Auditors & Cost Auditors have reported any incident 
of Fraud to the Audit Committee or the Board during the period 
under review.
CODE OF CONDUCT
Declaration by Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer confirming compliance with 
the ‘Fortis Code of Conduct’ is enclosed with Corporate 
Governance Report.
CERTIFICATE 
BY 
STATUTORY 
AUDITORS 
FOR 
DOWNSTREAM INVESTMENT
A certificate from the Statutory Auditors of your Company 
stating that your Company has duly complied with the 
requirements of downstream investment made by your 
Company to second level entities in accordance with Foreign 
Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person 
Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017 would be available at 
the Annual General Meeting for inspection by members.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
To the best of their knowledge and belief and according to the 
information and explanations obtained by them, your Directors 
make the following statements in terms of Section 134(3)(c) of 
the Companies Act, 2013:
(a)	
In the preparation of the Annual Accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with 
proper explanations relating to material departures 
therefrom, if any;
(b)	
They had selected such accounting policies and applied 
them consistently and made judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of your Company at the end 
of the financial year and of the profit of your company for 
the Financial year ended March 31, 2025;
(c)	
Proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets 
of your Company and for preventing and detecting fraud 
and other irregularities; 
(d)	
The annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
concern basis;
(e)	
Proper internal financial controls have been laid down and 
that such internal financial controls were adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
(f)	
There are proper systems in place to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such 
systems are adequate and operating effectively.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Your Directors place on record their gratitude to the Central 
Government, State Governments and all other Government 
agencies for the assistance, co-operation and encouragement 
they have extended to the Company. Your Directors also take 
this opportunity to extend a special thanks to the medical 
fraternity and patients for their continued cooperation, 
patronage and trust in the Company.
Your Directors are glad to place on record that your Company 
has posted a strong financial performance during the year and 
greatly appreciate the commitment and dedication of all the 
employees, that has contributed to the growth and success 
of the Company. Your Directors also thank all the strategic 
partners, business associates, Debenture Trustee/Holders Banks, 
financial institutions for their assistance, co-operation and 
encouragement to the Company during the year. 
Last but not the least your Directors thank the Shareholders of 
the Company for their continued faith in the Company.
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Fortis Healthcare Limited
Sd/-
Sd/-
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Leo Puri
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Chairman  
(Independent Director)
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01764813
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
87
ANNEXURE- I TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT- FORM AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) 
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries or associate companies or joint ventures. 
(` in lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name of the 
subsidiary
Reporting 
period 
for the 
subsidiary 
concerned,	
if different 
from the 
holding 
company’s 
reporting 
period
Reporting 
currency and 
Exchange 
rate as on the 
last date of 
the relevant 
Financial year 
in the case 
of foreign 
subsidiaries.
Share 
capital
Reserves & 
surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit before 
taxation
Provision 
for taxation
Profit after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
shareholding*
1
Escorts Heart 
Institute and 
Research Centre 
Limited 
March 31, 
2025
`
256.29
69,654.43
91,286.24
21,375.52
68,454.10
49,394.43
4,636.83
1,107.68
3,529.15
-
100.00%
2
Fortis Healthstaff 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
510.00
(2,208.41)
16.53
1,714.94
-
-
(127.69)
-
(127.69)
-
100.00%
3
Fortis Asia 
Healthcare Pte. Ltd
March 31, 
2025
US$
16,219.40
(116,280.71)
11,839.25
111,900.56
10,192.55
25.41
676.03
-
676.03
-
100.00%
4
Mena Escorts 
Heart Healthcare 
Investment 
Company Limited
March 31, 
2025
AED
19.82
(1,122.79)
42.70
1,145.67
42.70
-
-
-
-
82.54%
5
Medical 
Management 
Company Limited
March 31, 
2025
AED
32.55
930.86
1,111.68
148.26
-
-
-
-
-
-
82.54%
6
Agilus Pathlab 
FZ-LLC
March 31, 
2025
AED
282.00
(1,563.22)
2,115.18
3,396.40
-
1,974.36
112.03
2.31
109.72
-
88.32%
7
Hiranandani 
Healthcare Private 
Ltd
March 31, 
2025
`
561.33
7,335.84
10,538.87
2,641.70
-
13,256.86
1,138.24
286.90
851.34
-
100.00%
8
Adayu 
Mindfullness 
Limited (formerly 
Fortis LA Femme 
Limited)
March 31, 
2025
`
5.00
(114.00)
293.56
400.56
-
142.40
31.45
-
31.45
-
100.00%
9
Fortis CSR 
Foundation
March 31, 
2025
`
5.00
29.43
53.98
19.55
-
156.46
0.76
-
0.76
-
100.00%
10
Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited (formerly 
SRL Limited)
March 31, 
2025
`
7,842.56
132,447.77
167,702.80
27,412.47
78,670.61
89,139.49
3,380.18
677.47
2,702.67
-
88.32%
11
Agilus Pathlab 
Private Limited 
(formerly SRL 
diagnostics Pvt Ltd)
March 31, 
2025
`
395.82
20,500.81
38,568.28
17,671.65
950.88
28,522.42
3,436.87
757.25
2,679.61
-
88.32%
12
Agilus Pathlab 
Reach Limited 
(formerly SRL 
Reach Limited)
March 31, 
2025
`
800.00
(436.15)
1,116.49
752.64
-
996.27
261.63
53.30
208.33
-
88.32%
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
88
(` in lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name of the 
subsidiary
Reporting 
period 
for the 
subsidiary 
concerned,	
if different 
from the 
holding 
company’s 
reporting 
period
Reporting 
currency and 
Exchange 
rate as on the 
last date of 
the relevant 
Financial year 
in the case 
of foreign 
subsidiaries.
Share 
capital
Reserves & 
surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit before 
taxation
Provision 
for taxation
Profit after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
shareholding*
13
Fortis Healthcare 
International 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
US$
227.30
1,698.15
2,561.13
635.68
2,551.86
13.54
(54.72)
-
(54.72)
-
100.00%
14
Fortis Global 
Healthcare 
(Mauritius) Limited
March 31, 
2025
US$
373.53
(46,302.96)
35.44
45,964.87
-
16.89
(1,630.47)
-
(1,630.47)
-
100.00%
15
Fortis Hospitals 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
7,998.76
(410.52)
323,475.74
315,887.50
33,055.83
421,984.88
40,602.58
(10,235.29)
50,837.87
-
100.00%
16
Fortis Cancer Care 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
15.00
(5,134.80)
0.32
5,120.12
-
0.01
(416.81)
-
(416.81)
-
100.00%
17
Fortis Malar 
Hospitals Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
1,875.70
1,120.71
3,657.45
661.04
5.00
271.72
58.59
17.59
41.00
-
62.71%
18
Malar Star 
Medicare Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
5.00
24.50
30.75
1.25
-
0.00
(1.78)
0.02
(1.80)
-
62.71%
19
Fortis Health 
Management 
(East) Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
7.00
(1,649.62)
16.39
1,659.02
-
0.01
(132.81)
-
(132.81)
-
100.00%
20
Birdie and Birdie 
Realtors Private 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
71.00
(14,697.15)
5.03
14,631.18
-
-
(221.76)
-
(221.76)
-
100.00%
21
Stellant Capital 
Advisory Services 
Private Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
1,750.00
1,354.80
3,401.15
296.34
-
299.68
(246.96)
-
(246.96)
-
100.00%
22
Fortis Hospotel 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
56,117.02
231,668.45
302,275.94
14,490.47
95,340.90
50,291.62
32,946.39
8,564.21
24,382.18
-
100.00%
23
RHT Health Trust 
Manager Pte Ltd
March 31, 
2025
SGD
609.45
8,740.32
9,675.42
325.66
9,457.84
91.60
(197.58)
-
(197.58)
-
100.00%
24
Fortis Emergency 
Services Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
5.00
(9,998.04)
885.27
10,878.31
-
6.40
(902.35)
-
(902.35)
-
100.00%
25
DDRC Agilus 
Pathlab Limited 
(formerly DDRC 
SRL Diagnostics 
Ltd)
March 31, 
2025
`
50.00
22,806.90
33,963.67
11,106.77
-
32,200.10
8,537.07
2,188.16
6,348.91
-
88.32%
26
Escorts Heart and 
Super Speciality 
Hospital Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
3,392.52
18,250.61
56,974.60
35,331.47
-
18,699.41
2,998.53
761.19
2,237.34
-
100.00%
ANNEXURE- I TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT- FORM AOC-1 (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
89
ANNEXURE- I TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT- FORM AOC-1 (Contd.)
(` in lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name of the 
subsidiary
Reporting 
period 
for the 
subsidiary 
concerned,	
if different 
from the 
holding 
company’s 
reporting 
period
Reporting 
currency and 
Exchange 
rate as on the 
last date of 
the relevant 
Financial year 
in the case 
of foreign 
subsidiaries.
Share 
capital
Reserves & 
surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit before 
taxation
Provision 
for taxation
Profit after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
shareholding*
27
International 
Hospital Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
33,963.13
107,745.04
311,474.66
169,766.49
145,230.63
56,718.88
15,981.77
3,705.95
12,275.82
-
100.00%
28
Hospitalia Eastern 
Private Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
5.10
(26,174.38)
12,468.03
38,637.31
-
2,610.62
(7,389.72)
(89.91)
(7,299.81)
-
100.00%
29
Fortis Health 
Management 
Limited
March 31, 
2025
`
100,956.71
(82,077.00)
63,406.36
44,526.65
52,050.01
14,261.07
(931.68)
-
(931.68)
-
100.00%
* The percentage of shareholding is considered on fully diluted basis and also includes indirect shareholding.
Notes: The following information shall be furnished at the end of the statement:
1.	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations-Nil
2.	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year-Nil
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Sd/-
Sd/-
DR. ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
Sd/-
Sd/-
Place : Gurugram
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Date : May 20, 2025
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.A14783
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
90
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO FIRST PROVISO TO SUB-SECTION(3) OF SECTION 129 READ WITH RULE 5 OF COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES, 2014 RELATED TO 
JOINT VENTURE/ASSOCIATE COMPANIES 
(` in lacs)
Sl. 
No
Name of Associates/
Joint Ventures
Latest audited 
Balance Sheet 
Date
Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures 
held by the Company on the year end
Description 
of how there 
is significant 
influence 
Reason why the 
associate/joint 
venture is not 
consolidated 
Net worth 
attributable to 
Shareholding 
as per latest 
audited 
Balance Sheet 
 Profit/Loss for the year 
No. 
Amount of 
Investment 
in Associates/
Joint Venture 
Extend of 
Holding 
% *
i. Considered 
 in Consolidation
i. Not Considered 
in Consolidation
1.
RHT Health Trust, 
Singapore
March 31, 2025
2,257.48
2,680.65
27.82%
Associate
Not Applicable
2,680.65
-
-
2.
Lanka Hospitals 
Corporation PLC
December 31, 
2024
641.21
13,967.12
28.60%
Associate
Not Applicable
13,967.12
1,152.79
-
3.
Fortis Cauvery
March 31, 2025
NA, a partnership firm
51.00%
Joint Venture
Not Applicable
27.44
-
-
4.
Agilus Diagnostics 
(NEPAL) Private 
Limited
March 31, 2025
2.40
249.82
50.00%
Joint Venture
Not Applicable
249.82
(0.50)
-
* The percentage of shareholding also includes indirect shareholding.
Notes: The following information shall be furnished at the end of the statement:
1.	 Names of Joint Venture/Associate Companies which are yet to commence operations-Nil
2.	 Names of Joint Venture/Associate Companies which have been liquidated or sold during the year- Nil
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Sd/-
Sd/-
DR. ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
Sd/-
Sd/-
Place : Gurugram
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Date : May 20, 2025
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.A14783
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
91
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year Ended March 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Tower A, Unitech Business Park, Block - F South City - 1,
Sector-41, Gurgaon, Haryana - 122001
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Fortis Healthcare Limited (hereinafter 
called “the Company”/“Fortis”). The Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby 
report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit 
period covering the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also 
that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to 
the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
I.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made 
thereunder;
II.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
III. 	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
IV. 	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent applicable;
V. 	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021;
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period);
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 (not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period);
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 (not applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period);
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to 
the Company during the Audit Period); and
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
VI.	
It is further reported that with respect to the compliance of 
other applicable laws, we have relied on the representation 
made by the Company and its officers for system and 
mechanism framed by the Company for compliances 
under general laws and specific laws. As informed to us 
following are the specific laws applicable to the Company:
	
(a)	
The 
Clinical 
Establishment 
(Registration 
and 
Regulation) Act, 2010 and Rules made thereunder;
ANNEXURE- II TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
92
Annexure- II to the Directors’ Report (Contd.)
	
(b)	
The Drugs Control Act, 1950 and Rules made 
thereunder and
	
(c)	
The Transplantation of Human Organs Act, 1994 and 
bye laws made thereunder.
	
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the Secretarial Standards with respect to Meetings of 
the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meeting (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
	
During the period under review, the Company has 
generally complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above 
except:
	
a.	
The Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are 
under ongoing Investigation which was conducted by 
Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO”) regarding 
alleged improper transactions and non-compliances 
with laws and regulations including Companies Act, 
2013 (including matters relating to remuneration 
paid to managerial personnel).
	
b.	
On May 10, 2024, Agilus Diagnostics Limited, a 
material subsidiary of the Company has received a 
notice from the Central Bureau of Investigation, Anti-
Corruption Branch, New Delhi (“the Authority”), in 
respect registration of enquiry for alleged anomalies 
in diagnostics test conducted in Aam Aadmi Mohalla 
Clinic etc., wherein the Authority have sought certain 
details/documents from Agilus Diagnostics Limited.
	
c.	
The company is pursuing recovery of the amount of ` 
397.12 Crores (approx.) along with the interest from 
Erstwhile Promoters and their related entities.
	
I further report that:
	
a.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted with proper balance of Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act. 
	
b.	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent at least seven days in advance (or 
with requisite compliances for holding of a Board 
Meeting at a shorter notice in case of urgency, if 
applicable), and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for 
meaningful participation at the meeting.
	
c.	
As per the minutes of meetings duly recorded and 
signed by the Chairman, the majority of the decisions 
of the Board were carried through unanimously. The 
dissenting members’ views, if any, were recorded as 
part of the minutes.
I further report that, based on the information provided 
and the representation made by the Company and also on 
the review of compliance reports/certificates taken on record 
by the Board of Directors of the Company, in my opinion, 
there are adequate systems and processes in the Company 
commensurate with the size and operations of the Company 
to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period under review:
1.	
The Shareholders of the Company at its Annual General 
Meeting held on August 02, 2024 inter-alia approved:
a.	
final dividend of Re. 1/- per equity share for the 
Financial Year 2023-24;
b.	
re-appointment of M/s B S R & Co. LLP, as Statutory 
Auditors from the conclusion of 28th AGM to 32nd 
AGM to be held in the year 2028;
c.	
payment of commission to Independent Director(s) 
for a period of three years effective April 01, 2024 to 
March 31, 2027 and
d.	
re-appointment of Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi as 
MD (designated as Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer) for a period of two years effective 
March 19, 2025.
2.	
The Shareholders of the Company through its Postal Ballot 
dated August 02, 2024 inter-alia approved:
a.	
to consider entering into a material RPT for acquire 
the entire stake held by NYLIM Jacob Ballas India 
Fund III LLC (“NJBIF”), Resurgence PE Investments 
Limited (formerly known as Avigo PE Investments 
Limited) (“Resurgence”) and International Finance 
Corporation (“IFC”) (collectively “PE Investors”) in 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited;
b.	
to consider raising debt through issuance of listed, 
senior, secured, rated, redeemable NCDS aggregating 
for a value of up to ` 1550,00,00,000/- having a face 
value of ` 1,00,000/- on a private placement basis;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
93
c.	
to consider creation of encumbrance on the securities 
held by the Company in Agilus Diagnostics Limited 
for the purposes of raising funds by way of issuance 
of NCDs &
d.	
to consider Amendment in the AOA.
3.	
The Company has acquired 31.52% shareholding in 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited from NYLIM Jacob Ballas 
India Fund III LLC (“NJBIF”), Resurgence PE Investments 
Limited (formerly known as Avigo PE Investments Limited) 
(“Resurgence”) and International Finance Corporation 
(“IFC”) (collectively “PE Investors”) and the composite 
transaction in this respect now stands completed, with 
the Company holding 89.2% shareholding in Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited
4.	
The Composite Scheme of Arrangement is entered 
between International Hospital Limited, Fortis Hospitals 
Limited and Fortis Hospotel Limited (collectively referred 
as wholly-owned subsidiaries) and their respective 
shareholders and creditors. The Scheme is pending for 
disposal by the National Company Law Tribunal.
5.	
The Shareholders of the Company through its Postal Ballot 
Notice dated February 18, 2025 inter-alia approved:
a. 	
Approval 
of 
appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Leo 
Puri 
(DIN:01764813) as Director (an Independent & Non-
Executive Director) of the Company;
b. 	
Payment of Commission/Remuneration to Chairman 
(ID) till March 31, 2027;
c.	
to consider Amendment in the Articles of Association 
of the Company;
d.	
acquisition of Shrimann Hospital at Jalandhar City & 
transactions in relation thereto to be entered into by 
Fortis Hospotel Limited, WOS Company;
e.	
raising debt through Fortis Hospotel Limited (“FHTL”), 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary for meeting funding 
requirements, largely to finance the acquisition of 
Shrimann Hospital and for its future growth/capex 
requirements and to pledge, mortgage, hypothecate 
and/or create charge on any assets/properties of 
FHTL;
f.	
amendment in the AOA of Agilus Diagnostics Limited 
Diagnostics Limited.
This report is to be read with my letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure and forms integral part of this report.
For Neelam Gupta and Associates
Neelam Gupta
Practicing Company Secretary
FCS : 3135 
CP : 6950
PR No.: 747/2020
UDIN: F003135G000379599
Place : Ghaziabad 
Date : May 20, 2025
Annexure- II to the Directors’ Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
94
The Members,
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Management Responsibility for Compliances
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of 
the management of the Company. My responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on 
my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and process as were 
appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The 
verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the 
process and practices I followed provide a reasonable basis 
for my opinion.
3.	
I have relied upon the books, records and documents 
made available by the Company to us through electronic 
means and in digital format.
4.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of 
financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
ANNEXURE TO SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT OF FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED 
for financial year ended March 31, 2025
5.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management 
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
6.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is 
the responsibility of management. My examination was 
limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
7.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted 
the affairs of the Company.
For Neelam Gupta and Associates
Neelam Gupta
Practicing Company Secretary
FCS : 3135 
CP : 6950
PR No.: 747/2020
UDIN : F003135G000379599
Place : Ghaziabad  
Date : May 20, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
95
	
FORM No. MR-3
Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
To,
The Members,
International Hospital Limited
Fortis Memorial Research Institute,
Sector - 44 Gurgaon -122002  
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by International Hospital Limited 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our 
opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025 complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to 
the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by International 
Hospital Limited for the period covering April 01, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder.
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; 
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder;
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India 
During the period under review the Company has duly complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Secretarial standards etc. mentioned above.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive, Non-Executive and Independent 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of 
Directors that took place during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent 
reasonably in advance except in cases where meetings were 
convened at a shorter notice and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All decisions are carried through majority and recorded as part 
of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company has: 
(i)	
Approved the redemption of the Optionally Convertible 
Debentures (“OCDs”) issued to Escorts Heart And Super 
Specialty Hospital Limited (“EHSSHL”).
(ii)	
Approved to subscribe the Optionally Convertible Non-
Cumulative Preference Share of Fortis Health Management 
Limited (“FHML”), issued in lieu of cancellation of OCDs 
issued by FHML to IHL.
(iii)	 Appointed Ms. Priyanka Negi as Company Secretary and 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company. 
	
	
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
Mukesh Kumar Agarwal
	
M No-F5991
Place: Delhi	
C P No.3851
Date: May 16, 2025 	
UDIN: F005991G000320624 
Note- This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure-A” and forms an integral part of this report.
ANNEXURE- IIA TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
96
To,
The Members,
International Hospital Limited
Fortis Memorial Research Institute,
Sector - 44 Gurgaon -122002  
The Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
5.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
Mukesh Kumar Agarwal
M No-F5991
Place: Delhi	
	
C P No.3851
Date: May 16, 2025 	
UDIN: F005991G000320624 
Annexure-A
Annexure- IIA to the Directors’ Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
97
To,
The Members,
Fortis Hospitals Limited
Escorts Heart Institute & Research Centre
Okhla Road, New Delhi-110025
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Fortis Hospitals Limited (hereinafter 
called the Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my 
opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our 
opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company 
has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in 
place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by Fortis 
Hospitals Limited for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
1.	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India
During the period under review the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Secretarial Standards etc. mentioned above.
FORM No. MR-3
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED March 31, 2025
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Director. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent 
reasonably in advance and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All decisions are carried through requisite majority and recorded 
as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company 
has 
(i)	
Approved re-appointment of Mr. Ravi Rajagopal as an 
Independent Director for a second term of five years;
(ii)	
Approved appointment of Ms. Vinti Verma as a Company 
Secretary of the Company and Key managerial Personnel.
(iii)	 Approved divestment proposal of the Fortis Hospital, 
Richmond Road, Bengaluru.
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
                              Mukesh Kumar Agarwal 
Practicing Company Secretary
M No-F5991
                            C P No.3851
UDIN: F005991G000320591
Place : Delhi  
Date : May 15, 2025
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure-A” and forms an integral part of this report.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
98
To,
The Members,
Fortis Hospitals Limited
Escorts Heart Institute & Research Centre
Okhla Road, New Delhi-110025
The Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
                          	
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
                              Mukesh Kumar Agarwal
                           M No-F5991
Place: Delhi	
C P No.3851
Date: May 15, 2025	
UDIN: F005991G000320591 
Annexure-A
Secretarial Audit Report of Material Subsidiaries (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
99
To,
The Members,
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
(Fomerly Known as SRL Limited)
Fortis Hospital Sector 62, Phase-VIII,
Mohali - 1600622  
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by AGILUS DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED 
(hereinafter called the Company). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our 
opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025 complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to 
the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by AGILUS 
DIAGNOSTICS LIMITED for the period covering April 01, 2024 
to March 31, 2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder.
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; 
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder in respect to issue and 
allotment of shares;
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India 
FORM No. MR-3
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
During the period under review the Company has duly complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Secretarial standards etc. mentioned above.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Non-Executive and Independent Directors. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were 
sent reasonably in advance except in cases where meetings 
were convened at a shorter notice and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
All decisions were carried through majority and recorded as 
part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company has: 
(i)	
Appointed Mr. Akshay Tiwari as Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company in place of Mr. Mangesh Shirodkar w.e.f. 
September, 9, 2024.
(ii)	
Appointed Mr. Indrajit Banerjee as an Independent Director 
(Additional) of the Company w.e.f.  October 1, 2024. 
(iii)	 Designating Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi as the Chairman of 
the Board. 
(iv)	 Approved amendment in Article of Association (AOA)
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
                              Mukesh Kumar Agarwal 
M No-F5991
                            C P No.3851
              UDIN: F005991G000320767 
Place : Delhi  
Date : May 16, 2025
Note- This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure-A” and forms an integral part of this 
report.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
100
Annexure-A
To,
The Members,
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
(Formerly Known as SRL Limited)
FORTIS HOSPITAL SECTOR 62, PHASE-VIII,
MOHALI - 160062  
The Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
5.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
                          	
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
                              Mukesh Kumar Agarwal
                           M No. F5991
Place: Delhi	
C P No.3851
Date: May 16, 2025	
UDIN: F005991G000320767
Secretarial Audit Report of Material Subsidiaries (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
101
To,
The Members,
Fortis Hospotel Limited 
Fortis Memorial Research Institute,
Sector - 44 Gurgaon -122002 
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by FORTIS HOSPOTEL LIMITED 
(hereinafter called the company). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the company has, during the audit period covering April 01, 
2024 to March 31, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-
processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in 
the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by FORTIS 
HOSPOTEL LIMITED for the period covering April 01, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder.
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; 
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder;
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India 
During the period under review the Company has duly complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Secretarial Standards etc. mentioned above.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES
FORM No. MR-3
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2025
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive, 
Non-Executive and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during 
the period under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent 
reasonably in advance except in cases where meetings were 
convened at a shorter notice and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All decisions are carried through majority and recorded as part 
of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the company that commensurate with the size and 
operations of the company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the company had:
(i)	
Appointed Mr. Gourav Khatri as Company Secretary w.e.f 
May 20, 2024.
(ii)	
Mr. Gourav Khatri resigned from the position of Company 
Secretary w.e.f September 9, 2024.
(iii)	 Appointed Mr. Satyendra Chauhan as Company Secretary 
of the Company w.e.f September 12, 2024.
(iv)	 Mr. Manu Kapila resigned from the position of Director 
w.e.f September 9, 2024. 
(v)	
Appointed Mr. Mahipal Bhanot as an Additional Director 
of the Company.  
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
                              Mukesh Kumar Agarwal 
M No-F5991
                            C P No.3851
               UDIN: F005991G000320351 
Place : Ghaziabad  
Date : May 13, 2025	
	
Note- This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure-A” and forms an integral part of this report.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
102
To,
The Members,
Fortis Hospotel Limited 
Fortis Memorial Research Institute,
Sector - 44 Gurgaon -122002  
The Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the company.
4.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
5.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
                          	
For Mukesh Agarwal & Company
                              Mukesh Kumar Agarwal
                           M No-F5991
Place: Delhi	
C P No.3851
Date: May 06, 2025	
UDIN: F005991G000320351 
Place: Delhi	
Date: May 13, 2025	
Annexure-A
Secretarial Audit Report of Material Subsidiaries (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
103
(A)	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY: 
1.	
The Steps taken or impact on conservation of 
energy
	
a)	
ESG at Fortis Healthcare: Deepening Purpose, 
Broadening Impact
	
At Fortis Healthcare, ESG is not a peripheral function—
it is the deep code of our institutional operating 
system. Inspired by the Triple Bottom Line framework 
(People, Planet, Profit) and Donella Meadows’ 
systems thinking principles about interconnected 
wholes instead of isolated parts, our ESG philosophy 
views healthcare not just as a service, but as a force 
for societal regeneration. FY 2024–25 marked a year 
of weaving ESG more tightly into our organizational 
DNA—translating strategy into structure, data into 
decisions, and intent into institution-wide alignment.
	
We operate in a sector where the stakes are 
inherently high—where each kilowatt saved, each 
liter conserved and each human treated with dignity 
echoes far beyond the walls of our hospitals. Our 
ESG strategy is thus shaped by double materiality, 
balancing enterprise value with ecosystem wellbeing, 
and aligning short-term excellence with long-term 
shared prosperity.
	
b)	
Environmental Stewardship: Doing More with 
Less
	
In FY 2024–25, we continued to push the frontiers of 
operational sustainability:
•	
6.53% reduction in per occupied bed electricity 
consumption across all Fortis units marked 
a significant step in our energy optimization 
efforts. This achievement is not just a metric—it 
reflects improved system efficiency, enhanced 
behavioral alignment, and smart engineering 
solutions.
•	
With 98% water metering infrastructure 
deployed across all Fortis units, we are future-
ready in water governance—enabling precision, 
accountability, and proactive conservation 
across our hospitals.
•	
Our 
approach 
to 
bio-medical 
waste 
management is evolving from compliance to 
circularity. We are embracing principles of 
reduce, reuse, recycle, and life-cycle thinking 
ANNEXURE- III TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORBTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING AND OUTGO
ensuring safe, scientific, and sustainable 
waste management across all five mandated 
categories.
	
Our approach towards achieving energy & 
water efficiency has been summarised as below:
• 	
Per 
Occupied 
Bed 
Energy 
& 
Water 
Monitoring: Since last two financial years, 
we have meticulously monitored energy 
consumption per occupied bed across all Fortis 
healthcare facilities on a monthly basis. This 
granular data allows us to identify the most and 
least energy efficient units and sharing of best 
practices across the organization. 
• 	
Benchmarking and Initiative Identification: 
Based on the monitoring data, we conduct 
in-depth benchmarking across all units. This 
process has resulted in the identification of 
multiple distinct initiatives designed to optimize 
energy consumption. 
	
c)	
Looking Ahead: ESG as a Practice of Becoming
	
Sustainability is not a destination—it is a discipline 
of continuous becoming. At Fortis Healthcare, we 
envision ESG not as a static checklist, but as a living, 
evolving commitment to excellence. As we look 
ahead, we remain guided by a philosophy of “ever 
better”—refining our energy practices, deepening 
our social equity lens, and advancing governance as 
an act of stewardship.
	
We aspire to move beyond efficiency into empathy, 
from metrics to meaning, and from compliance to 
conscious capitalism. Our vendor partners are not 
ancillary actors, but fellow travelers—co-authors of 
a shared ESG journey. Together, we are reimagining 
what it means to heal: not just the individual, but the 
institution, the industry, and the ecosystem.
	
The detailed outcomes of our FY 2024–25 i.e 
performance 
across 
Business 
Responsibility 
& 
Sustainability parameters are outlined in the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR). We 
extend our gratitude to every individual, team, and 
partner who has made this journey purposeful—
and who walks with us towards a healthier, more 
harmonious future.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
104
	
A compelling testament to the sustainability efforts 
of Fortis Healthcare is seen in the National Energy 
Leader Award & National Excellence in Energy 
Management, instituted by the Confederation of 
Indian Industry (CII), bagged by the Fortis Hospital 
Mohali in February 2025.
	
2.	
Steps taken by the Company for utilizing 
alternate source of energy
	
Fortis Healthcare has undertaken a multi-pronged 
approach to integrate alternate sources of energy 
into its hospital operations, with a strong emphasis 
on sustainability and cost optimization. Recognizing 
the critical role of clean energy in reducing the 
environmental footprint of healthcare infrastructure, 
the Company has progressively adopted renewable 
energy solutions across its network.
	
As of FY24–25, nine Fortis hospitals across the 
states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab, 
Rajasthan, Haryana, and Delhi are partially 
powered by solar and wind energy, contributing 
to day-to-day hospital operations.
	
The Company utilizes a diverse mix of renewable 
energy procurement models, including:
•	
Rooftop solar installations on hospital 
buildings where feasible;
•	
Third-party Power Purchase Agreements 
(PPAs) with renewable energy developers, 
especially in states with Open Access provisions;
•	
Group 
Captive 
Power 
Generation 
arrangements 
in 
compliance 
with 
state 
electricity regulations;
•	
Group Net Metering, where rooftop solar 
generation is optimized across multiple meters 
within a hospital facility.
	
This hybrid strategy enables Fortis to reduce 
dependency on conventional grid power 
while aligning with regional renewable energy 
policies. The Company continues to explore 
scalable and policy-aligned renewable energy 
opportunities with a view to increasing its 
overall renewable energy share in a pragmatic 
and phased manner.
3.	
Capital Investment on Energy Conservation 
Equipment’s- Approx ` 6.80/- Cr
(B)	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
	
1.	
The 
efforts 
made 
towards 
technology 
absorption
	
Fortis Healthcare embraces a forward-looking 
technology ethos, viewing each new platform not 
merely as an equipment upgrade but as a strategic 
enabler for clinical excellence, operational efficiency 
and sustainable growth. We rigorously evaluate 
emerging innovations for their ability to enhance 
patient safety, streamline workflows and reduce 
environmental impact. This commitment ensures 
that every technology investment—from imaging 
suites to robotics—aligns with our dual mandate 
of elevating care standards and optimising resource 
utilisation.
	
During FY 2024–25, Fortis oversaw the evaluation, 
procurement, 
commissioning 
and 
operational 
integration of key clinical systems. Installations 
included next-generation Gamma Knife and a new 
and innovative radiation therapy MR LINAC system at 
FMRI , State of the art Cath Labs at FEHI and Noida, 
Neuro Navigation suites at Faridabad and Noida, Soft 
Tissue and Da Vinci XI robotic platforms at Anandpur 
and Noida, 3D/4K ICG laparoscopy systems at FHKI 
and Vasant Kunj, 3D C-Arms at Mulund, high-field 
MRI units at Manesar and Anandpur, and a Surface-
Guided Radiation Therapy system at FMRI. Each 
deployment was accompanied by vendor-led training 
sessions and the development of updated standard 
operating procedures, ensuring rapid, consistent 
adoption into existing clinical workflows.
	
Further, in parallel with our technology roll-out, 
we integrated a broad suite of energy-saving 
measures across hospital services—HVAC, electrical 
distribution, plumbing, STP/ETP and lighting. All 
newly commissioned systems feature energy-smart 
designs: Cath Labs and C-Arms operate in low-dose 
imaging modes; MRI suites and theatres employ LED 
illumination and optimized cooling circuits. These 
combined strategies optimize system performance, 
lower operational costs, ensure compliance with 
green-building norms and maintain a comfortable, 
safe environment for patients, staff and visitors.
ANNEXURE- III TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
105
2.	
Benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development or import substitution 
	
The integrated technology and conservation initiatives have enhanced diagnostic accuracy, reduced procedural radiation 
exposure and improved equipment uptime. By standardizing on platforms with comprehensive domestic support for spares 
and consumables, we have reduced import dependencies and streamlined maintenance processes without compromising 
clinical performance.
3.	
Following are the details of imported technology (imported during the last 3 years reckoned from the beginning 
of the financial year) :
Details of Technology Imported
Year of Import
Has technology been 
fully absorbed ?
If not absorbed, areas, 
where this has not taken 
place, reasons therefore 
and future plans of action
MR LINAC
24
Yes
NA
Gamma Knife
24
Yes
NA
Cath lab
24
Yes
NA
LINAC
23
Yes
NA
MRI -3T
25
Yes
NA
Dual source 256 Slice CT scanner
25
Yes
NA
Ortho Robot
24
Yes
NA
Soft Tissue Robot -Da vinci
24
Yes
NA
REZUM
24*
Yes
NA
OCT
24*
Yes
NA
Cardiac Laser
25
Yes
NA
Bi Plane cath lab
25
Yes
NA
Full roomHigh End Digital X ray
25*
Yes
NA
Digital Mammography with 
Tomosynthesis
25*
Yes
NA
3D CARM For neurosurgery
24*
Yes
NA
Neuro Navigation for Navigated surgery
23*
Yes
NA
Holmium Laser
24*
Yes
NA
3D 4 K LAP system for Laparoscopic 
surgeries
24*
Yes
NA
Digital PET CT
23
Yes
NA
	
	
*Import done by the equipment supplier
4.	
Expenditure incurred on Research & Development
	
	
No expenditure was incurred on Research and Development by the Company during the period under review
(C)	 FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
	
a)	
The Foreign Exchange earned in terms of actual inflows- ` 14.02/- Crore (On standalone Basis).
	
b)	
Foreign Exchange outgo during the year in terms of actual outflows- ` 1,785.15/- Crore (On standalone Basis).
ANNEXURE- III TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
106
ANNEXURE – IV 
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES
1.	
BRIEF OUTLINE ON CSR POLICY OF THE COMPANY:
	
The CSR Policy (approved by the Board of Directors) 
approaches this area under the philosophy that the 
Company’s efforts should strive towards building and 
sustaining healthier humanity and fostering the holistic 
well-being of communities. The policy elucidates the 
concept of growing our business in a socially and 
environmentally responsible manner through an active 
role in empowering communities and driving social 
development and positive change.
	
The policy has defined the roles and responsibilities 
associated with governance and administration of design 
and implementation of initiatives. It further clarifies the 
criteria for identifying eligible programmes, mechanisms 
for monitoring, evaluation and as well as reporting and 
disclosure requirements. As an enterprise in the critical 
domain of healthcare, the Company has participated and 
implemented various socially responsive programs since its 
inception. These programs are consistent with the themes 
outlined in the relevant Acts as well as the CSR policy of 
the organisation.
	
The policy as approved by the Board is available on the 
Company’s web site at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/
investors/policies-&-code/483
	
Aligned to the CSR policy, in the fiscal year 2024-25, 
our Company undertook the following projects detailed 
below.
DETAILS OF THE PROJECTS/INITIATIVES:
During the year, the Company undertook the following projects/
initiatives:
(i) 	 Digital Health Training Program
	
Fortis Healthcare supported the “Digital Health Training” 
Program being implemented by NATHealth enhanced 
the digital health skills of smaller healthcare providers, 
and improved their ability to manage healthcare records 
using digital technology. Through this initiative, 92 smaller 
healthcare providers in semi-urban and peri-urban areas 
received training focused on adopting Electronic Medical 
Records (EMRs). 
	
Four-hour training sessions were conducted in Lucknow 
and Mohali. These locations were strategically chosen 
due to their significant healthcare service density. This 
effort supported the goals of the Ayushman Bharat Digital 
Mission (ABDM) by strengthening digital competencies at 
the grassroots level and contributed to a more efficient 
healthcare system.
(ii) 	 Fortis Apprenticeship Program
	
The Apprenticeship Program, directly implemented by 
Fortis provided 1136 youth across 7 states with structured 
skill training and on-the-job experience in medical and 
non-medical fields.
	
Implemented under the National Apprenticeship Promotion 
Scheme (NAPS) and the National Apprenticeship Training 
Scheme (NATS) by the Government of India, the program 
aimed to enhance employability, build industry-relevant 
skills, and create sustainable livelihood opportunities. By 
fostering a skilled healthcare workforce, Fortis reaffirmed 
its commitment to strengthening India’s healthcare 
ecosystem and bridging the gap between education and 
employment.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
107
	
Brief details of CSR amounts spent on the said projects/initiatives are mentioned hereunder:
Sr. 
No.
CSR Project or activity 
identified
Sector in which the 
Project/initiatives is 
covered (schedule 
VII of the Companies 
Act, 2013)
Projects or programs 
local Area or other 
specify the state and 
districts where projects 
were undertaken
Amount outlay 
(budget) project 
or programs 
Amount spent: 
Direct or through 
implementing 
agency
(i)
Digital Health Training 
Program
i
Punjab, Uttar Pradesh
5,00,000
Implementing 
Agency
(ii)
Fortis Apprenticeship 
Program
ii
Punjab, New Delhi
1,37,91,859
Direct
*The contribution was refunded due to technical issue and was paid again by the Company.
2.	
COMPOSITION OF CSR COMMITTEE:
Sr.
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee held 
during the year (FY 2025)
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year (FY 2025)
1.
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Member  
(Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer)
2
2
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Member  
(Independent Director)
2
2
3.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra*
Member  
(Independent Director)
-
-
4.
Mr Ravi Rajagopal**
Member  
(Independent Director)
1
1
*Ms. Shailaja Chandra was appointed as member w.e.f. October 01, 2024
** Mr. Ravi Rajagopal ceased to be a member w.e.f. September 30, 2024
3.	
PROVIDE THE WEB-LINK(S) WHERE COMPOSITION OF CSR COMMITTEE, CSR POLICY AND CSR PROJECTS APPROVED 
BY THE BOARD ARE DISCLOSED ON THE WEBSITE OF THE COMPANY.
	
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/composition-of-committees/485	
4.	
PROVIDE THE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ALONG WITH WEB-LINK(S) OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF CSR PROJECTS CARRIED 
OUT IN PURSUANCE OF SUB-RULE (3) OF RULE 8, IF APPLICABLE: 	
	
Not applicable
5.	
a.	
Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135. ` 73,50,30,128
	
b.	
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135. ` 1,47,00,603/-
	
c.	
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years. NIL
	
d.	
Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any. 
	
	
NIL
	
e.	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)].
 	
	
` 1,47,00,603/-
6.	
a.	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project).  
	
	
` 1,42,91,859/-
	
b.	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads. ` 4,08,744/-
	
c.	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable. Not Applicable 
	
d.	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]. ` 1,47,00,603/-
Annexure – IV (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
108
	
e.	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year: 
Total Amount Spent for the 
Financial Year (in `)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
sub-section (6) of section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso to 
sub-section (5) of section 135
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of 
transfer
1,47,00,603/-
-
-
-
-
-
	
f.	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sr. 
No.
Particular
Amount 
(in `)
(1)
(2)
(3)
i
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
1,47,00,603/-
ii
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
1,47,00,603/-
iii
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
NIL
iv
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial 
Years, if any
NIL
v
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
NIL
7.	
DETAILS OF UNSPENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AMOUNT FOR THE PRECEDING THREE FINANCIAL YEARS:
	
Not Applicable
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under sub-
section (6) of 
section 135 
(in `)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under sub-
section (6) of 
section 135 
(in `)
Amount 
Spent in the 
Financial 
Year (in `)
Amount 
transferred to a 
Fund as specified 
under Schedule 
VII as per second 
proviso to sub-
section (5) of 
section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining 
to be 
spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in `)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in `)
Date of 
transfer
1
FY-1
2
FY-2
3
FY-3
8.	
WHETHER ANY CAPITAL ASSETS HAVE BEEN CREATED OR ACQUIRED THROUGH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
AMOUNT SPENT IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR:
	
 Yes  No
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired- Not Applicable
Annexure – IV (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
109
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
S. 
No.
Short 
particulars of 
the property 
of asset(s)
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of 
the property]
Pincode of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of 
CSR amount 
spent
Details of entity/authority/beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
Not Applicable
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/
Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9.	
SPECIFY THE REASON(S), IF THE COMPANY HAS FAILED TO SPEND TWO PER CENT OF THE AVERAGE NET PROFIT AS 
PER SUB- SECTION (5) OF SECTION 135: Not Applicable
Annexure – IV (Contd.)
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Fortis Healthcare Limited
Sd/-
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer – (Chairman of CSR Committee)
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 02775637
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Gurugram
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
110
PARTICULARS OF CONTRACT/ARRANGEMENT MADE WITH RELATED PARTIES
(pursuant to Clause (h) of Sub Section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014)
This form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangement entered into by the Company with related parties referred 
to in Section 188(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transaction under third proviso thereto.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transaction not at arm’s length basis
There were no contracts or arrangement or transactions entered into during the year ended March 31, 2025, which were not at 
arms’ length basis.
ANNEXURE- V TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT - FORM AOC-2
Details of material contracts or arrangements or transaction at arm’s length basis
There were no material contracts or arrangements or transactions (as per the Company’s Policy on ‘Materiality on Related Party 
Transactions’) entered into during the year ended March 31, 2025, which were on arm’s length basis.
(` in Lakhs)
Name of Related Party
Nature of 
Relationship
Nature of 
Contract/
arrangement/
transaction
Duration of 
the Contract/
arrangement/
transaction
Salient 
terms of the 
Contract/
arrangement/
transaction 
including the 
value, if any
Date of 
approval by 
the Board, if 
any
Amount 
paid in 
advance
Nil
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Fortis Healthcare Limited
Sd/-
Sd/-
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Leo Puri
Managing Director and
Chairman
Chief Executive Officer
(Independent Director)
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01764813
Date: May 20, 2025
Place: Gurugram
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
111
1.
INTRODUCTION
	
Corporate Governance essentially is the system of 
structures, rights, duties and obligations by which 
companies are directed and controlled. This governance 
structure specifies the distribution of rights and 
responsibilities amongst different participants in the 
corporation (such as the board of directors, management, 
shareholders, creditors, auditors, regulators and other 
stakeholders) and specifies the rules and procedures for 
making decisions in corporate affairs. Effective Corporate 
Governance practices constitute the strong foundation 
on which successful commercial enterprises are built to 
last. This is reﬂected in the Company’s philosophy on 
Corporate Governance. The Report has been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements laid down under 
Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and with 
a view to meticulously attain the highest standards of 
governance.
2.
COMPANY’S 
PHILOSOPHY 
ON 
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
Our Corporate Governance is a reﬂection of our 
value system encompassing our culture, policies, and 
relationships with our stakeholders. Integrity and 
transparency are key to our Corporate Governance 
practices to ensure that we gain and retain the trust of our 
stakeholders at all times. Corporate Governance ensures 
fairness, transparency and integrity of the management. 
The essence of Corporate Governance lies in promoting 
and maintaining integrity, transparency and accountability 
in the management’s higher echelons. As a part of growth 
strategy, the Company believes in adopting the ‘best 
practices’ that are followed in the area of Corporate 
Governance across various geographies. The Company 
emphasis the need for full transparency and accountability 
in all its transactions, in order to protect the interests of 
its stakeholders. The Board considers itself as a trustee 
of its shareholders and acknowledges its responsibilities 
towards them for creation and safeguarding their wealth.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
3.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS - COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
	
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) is at the core of 
the Company’s Corporate Governance practices and 
oversees how management serves and protects the 
long-term interests of its stakeholders. It is our belief 
that an enlightened Board consciously creates a culture 
of leadership to provide a long-term vision and policy 
approach to improve the quality of governance. The 
Board’s actions and decisions are aligned with the 
Company’s best interests. The Board is committed to 
the goal of sustainably elevating the Company’s value 
creation.
	
Our policy towards the composition of Board is to have 
an appropriate mix of Executive, Non-Executive, Women 
and Independent Directors, representing a judicious mix 
of professionalism, diversity and wide spectrum subject to 
specific competence in areas critical to the organisation, 
knowledge and experience.
	
This helps to drive value-based guidance whilst 
maintaining the independence of the Board and to 
separate its function of Governance and Management.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Board consisted of 11 (Eleven) 
Members, of which 1 (One) was an Executive Director 
(Managing Director & CEO) and rest all being Non- 
Executive Directors. Out of the 10 (Ten) Non-executive 
Directors, 4 (Four) were Independent Directors including 
2 (Two) Woman Independent Directors. The Non-
Executive Directors bring an external and wider 
perspective in Board’s deliberation and decisions.
	
The size and composition of the Board conforms to the 
requirements of Regulation 17 and 17A of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
referred as ‘Listing Regulations’/‘SEBI Listing Regulations’ 
in this report) and the Companies Act, 2013. Further, 
All Independent Directors have confirmed that they 
meet the Independence criteria as mentioned under 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder. Other details relating to the Directors 
during the period under reveiw are as follows:
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
112
Name of the Director
Position held in the 
Company
Directorship 
in other 
Companies 
as on March 
31, 2025@
Membership 
of the 
Committee 
in Other 
Companies 
as on March 
31, 2025#
Chairmanship 
of the 
Committee 
in Other 
Companies as 
on March 31, 
2025#
Name of the Indian 
Listed Entity in 
which holding other 
directorship and the 
category of directorship 
as on March 31, 2025
1Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
2
0
0
-
Mr. Dilip Kadambi
Non-Executive Director
1
0
0
-
2Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
Independent Director
3
2
1
Endurance Technologies 
Limited (Independent 
Director)
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
Independent Director
3
2
1
Fortis Malar Hospitals 
Limited (Independent 
Director) 
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
Independent Director
2
2
2
Fortis Malar Hospitals 
Limited (Independent 
Director) 
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro
Non-Executive Director
0
0
0
-
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
Non-Executive Director
0
0
0
-
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin
Non- Executive Director
0
0
0
-
Mr. Ashok Pandit
Non-Executive Director
1
1
0
-
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair
Non-Executive Director
0
0
0
-
3Mr. Leo Puri
Non-Executive Chairman 
and Independent Director
2
2
1
Hindustan Unilever Limited 
(Independent Director) 
Dr. Reddys Laboratories 
Limited (Independent 
Director)
4Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
Non-Executive Chairman 
and Independent 
Director
-
-
-
-
	
@ Excluding Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies formed under Section 8 of Companies Act, 2013.
	
# Represents membership/chairpersonship of Audit Committee & Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Indian Public Limited 
Companies (i.e. other than Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies formed under Section 8 of the 
Companies Act, 2013).
	
1The re-appointment of Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi as Managing Director (Designated as ‘Managing Director & CEO’) of the 
Company has been approved by the shareholders in the 28th Annual General Meeting held on August 02, 2024, effective from 
March 19, 2025, for a period of 2 years.
	
2Consequent to the resignation of Mr. Ravi Rajagopal as Chairman of the Company w.e.f. September 30, 2024, Mr. Indrajit	
	
	
Banerjee was appointed as the regular Chairman of the Board, w.e.f October 1, 2024, till the time vacancy is filled.
	
3Mr. Leo Puri was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. December 27, 2024 
and had also been designated as Chairman of the Board. Consequently, Mr. Indrajit Banerjee has passed on the position of the 
Chairman to Mr. Leo Puri and continued being a member of the Board as an Independent Director. 
	
4Mr. Ravi Rajagopal, had resigned w.e.f. September 30, 2024
	
None of the Directors on Board of the Company is a member in more than 10 (Ten) Committees and/or act as a Chairman/
Chairperson of more than 5 (Five) Committees across all the Companies in which he/she is a Director. Further, no independent 
director serves in more than 7 (seven) listed companies and none of the person who is serving as whole time director in the 
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
113
	
The Board has identified the following core skills/expertise/Competence as required in the context of its business(es) and sector(s) 
for it to function effectively and those actually available with the Board, during the period under review:
Core skills/
Expertise/
Competence
Mr. Ravi 
Rajagopal*
Dr. Ashutosh 
Raghuvanshi
Mr. Dilip 
Kadambi
Mr. 
Indrajit 
Banerjee
Mr. Lim 
Tsin Lin
Mr. 
Mehmet 
Ali 
Aydinlar
Ms. 
Shailaja 
Chandra
Ms. 
Suvalaxmi 
Chakraborty
Mr. Tomo 
Nagahiro
Mr. 
Ashok 
Pandit
Dr. 
Prem 
Kumar 
Nair
Mr. 
Leo 
Puri**
People of proven 
business capability, 
people of integrity 
and reputation












Experience in 
handling senior 
level responsibility 
(especially in 
large complex 
organisations) 
either business or 
otherwise












Ensure members 
are from diverse 
background that 
bring different 
perspective and 
experiences












Exposure and 
understanding 
of Corporate 
Governance, 
systems and 
control












Altleast some 
members to have 
capability and 
experience in 
healthcare industry
–


–



–




Background in 
finance, risk 
management and 
control












*Mr. Ravi Rajagopal, had resigned w.e.f. September 30, 2024. 
**Mr. Leo Puri was appointed as an Additional Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. December 27, 2024 
and had also been designated as Chairman of the Board.
	
Disclosure regarding appointment or re- appointment 
of Directors
	
Every appointment made to the Board is recommended 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee after 
considering various factors such as qualifications, positive 
attributes, area of expertise and other criteria as laid down 
in the “Board of Directors-Governance Standards”. The 
same is further taken for shareholders’ approval, as and 
when required, under the provisions of applicable laws.
	
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro and Mr. Lim Tsin Lim are liable to retire 
by rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting of the 
Company.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, all the Independent Directors hold office for a 
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
Company is serving as an independent director in more than 3 (Three) listed companies. Further, none of the Directors hold 
directorship in more than twenty (20) Indian Companies, with not more than ten (10) Public Limited Companies. All the 
Independent Directors (IDs) of the Company have been appointed as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, (The Act) 
and the Listing Regulations. The Chairman of the Company is a Non-Executive Director (NED) and is not related to the Managing 
Director (MD) and Chief Executive Director (CEO) of the Company.
	
Further, there are no inter-se relationship amongst the directors. None of the other director(s) are related to any other director 
on the Board.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
114
tenure of five consecutive years and are not liable to retire 
by rotation. In the opinion of the Board of Directors, the 
independent directors fulfil the conditions specified in the 
relevant listing regulations and are independent of the 
management.
	
As required under Regulation 36 of SEBI LODR, the 
information or details pertaining to the Directors seeking 
re-appointment in the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
are provided in the Notice convening the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
	
Change in the Board of Directors
	
During the Financial year 2024-25, following changes 
have been took place:
	
a)	
The re-appointment of Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi 
as Managing Director (Designated as ‘Managing 
Director & CEO’) of the Company has been approved 
by the shareholders in the 28th Annual General 
Meeting held on August 02, 2024, effective from 
March 19, 2025, for a period of 2 years.
	
b)	
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal resigned from the Directorship 
& Chairmanship of the Company w.e.f. September 
30, 2024 due to his expanded board commitments. 
Further, there were no other material reasons for his 
resignation except provided here.
	
c)	
Consequent to the resignation of Mr. Ravi Rajagopal as 
Chairman of the Company w.e.f. September 30, 2024, 
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee was appointed as the regular 
Chairman of the Board of the Company, with effect 
from October 1, 2024, till the time vacancy is filled.
	
d)	
Mr. Leo Puri was appointed as an Additional Non-
Executive Independent Director of the Company 
w.e.f. December 27, 2024 and had also been 
designated as Chairman of the Board. Consequently, 
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee has passed on the position of 
the Chairman to Mr. Leo Puri and continued being a 
member of the Board as an Independent Director.
	
	
Further pursuant to the Regulation 17(1)(c) of 
the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the Company 
obtained the approval of shareholders confirming 
the appointment of Mr. Leo Puri as Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company vide postal 
ballot on March 20, 2025.
	
Board Functioning and Procedure
	
The Board is an apex body constituted by the members 
for overseeing the overall functioning of the Company. 
The Board provides and evaluates the strategic directions 
of the Company, Management’s policies and their 
effectiveness and ensures that the long-term interests of 
the Shareholders are being served.
	
The probable dates of the Board Meetings for the 
forthcoming year are decided in advance and published 
as part of the Annual Report. The Board meets at least 
once in a quarter to review the performance of the 
Company and approves, inter alia, the financial results. 
Whenever necessary, additional meetings are held. In case 
of business exigencies or urgency of matters, resolutions 
are passed by circulation. The Board oversees the process 
of disclosures and communication.
	
Independent 
Directors 
are 
regularly 
updated 
on 
performance of the Company, business strategies and 
new initiatives being taken/proposed to be taken by 
the Company. The agenda for each Board/Committee 
Meeting along with background papers are circulated in 
advance to the Board Members to facilitate meaningful 
discussion at the meetings.
	
With the permission of the Chair, Company’s executives 
are invited to meetings of the Board/Committees at 
which their presence and expertise helps the Members to 
develop a full understanding of matters being deliberated.
	
All material information is incorporated in the agenda so 
as to give sufficient time to the Directors to go through 
the presentations/documents and take a well-informed 
decision. In case of exigencies/sensitive matters, the details 
are directly placed at the meeting, with the permission of 
the Chair and majority of Directors present.
	
Independent Directors 
	
The Company has received declarations from all the 
Independent Directors of the Company confirming that 
they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed 
under subsection (6) of section 149 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and as stipulated under Regulation 16(1)(b) of 
the SEBI (Listing Agreement and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. Accordingly, in the Opinion of the 
Board, the Independent Directors fulfils the conditions 
as per the applicable laws & are independent of the 
management of the Company.
	
The maximum tenure of Independent Directors is 
determined in accordance with the Companies Act, 
2013 and Regulation 25(2) of SEBI LODR. The Company 
has issued formal letters of appointment to Independent 
Directors in the manner as provided in the Companies Act, 
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
115
2013 and the terms and conditions of such appointment 
are disclosed on the website of the Company at 
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-
code/483?page=1
	
Meetings of Independent Directors during the year
	
Two (2) Meeting of Independent Directors were held 
during the year on February 06, 2025 and March 19, 
2025. All the Independent Directors attended the same.
	
The salient roles and responsibilities associated with 
the Independent Directors Meeting include, but are not 
limited to, the following:
(a) 	 review 
the 
performance 
of 
non-independent 
directors and the board of directors as a whole;
(b) 	 review the performance of the chairperson of the 
Company, taking into account the views of executive 
directors and non-executive directors;
(c) 	 assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of 
flow of information between the management 
of the Company and the board of directors that is 
necessary for the board of directors to effectively and 
reasonably perform their duties.
	
Familiarisation Programs for Independent Directors
	
Independent Directors inducted on the Board are given a 
formal introduction about the Company and its operations. 
This is enabled through a meeting with the Managing 
Director and members of senior management team. The 
objective is to provide them an insight about the industry 
in which the Company operates and comprehensive 
information about Company’s business, its operations and 
management.
	
Various familiarisation initiatives are carried out throughout 
the year on an on-going basis which include comprehensive 
update at Board and Committee meetings on Company’s 
performance and industry scenario, and information on 
specific functions/departments through presentations by 
senior executives. Further, an analysis on amendments in 
corporate laws and regulations applicable to the Company 
including its implications thereof are also complied and 
circulated for information of Board members.
	
The aim of familiarisation programmes is to give 
independent directors an update on:
	
i.	
the industry in which the Company operates;
	
ii.	
Business strategy and financial model of the 
Company;
	
iii.	
Risk management;
	
iv.	
Important developments in legal and auditing 
matters;
	
v.	
Change in government policies having impact on the 
business;
	
vi.	
Development in statutory compliances; and
	
vii.	 Development in business undertaken by the 
Company.
	
The Directors have unrestricted access to information 
and are free to interact with the Senior Management 
Officials/Key Managerial Personnel. Such forums provide 
an opportunity to the Board members to interact with 
project/functional teams which gives an insight from 
business perspective and provides a platform for the 
management to receive strategic inputs from the directors. 
The time devoted by each of the Independent Directors on 
such forums is not included in the details of familiarisation 
program published.
	
Details of familiarisation initiatives undertaken by the 
Company are made available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/
familiarization-programmes/557
	
The Company effectively uses facility of audio-visual 
means to enable the participation of Directors who cannot 
attend the Board or Committee meeting(s) in person.
	
During the year under review, Ten (10) Board Meetings 
were held on (i) May 23, 2024 (ii) July 05, 2024 (iii) 
August 06, 2024 (iv) August 30, 2024 (v) October 09, 
2024 (vi) November 08, 2024 (vii) December 18, 2024 
(viii) December 27, 2024 (ix) February 07, 2025 (x) March 
20, 2025.
	
The following table gives the attendance record of the 
directors at the above said Board meetings and also at the 
last Annual General Meeting, which was held on August 
02, 2024.
S. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
No. of 
Board 
Meetings 
attended
Attendance 
at last AGM
1.
1Mr Ravi Rajagopal
3
Yes
2.
Dr. Ashutosh 
Raghuvanshi
10
Yes
3.
Mr Dilip Kadambi
10
Yes
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
116
S. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
No. of 
Board 
Meetings 
attended
Attendance 
at last AGM
4.
Mr Indrajit Banerjee
10
Yes
5.
Ms Shailaja Chandra
10
Yes
6.
Ms Suvalaxmi 
Chakraborty
10
Yes
7.
Mr Tomo Nagahiro
8
Yes
8.
Mr Mehmet Ali 
Aydinlar
4
No
9.
Mr Lim Tsin Lin
7
Yes
10.
Mr Ashok Pandit
10
Yes
11.
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair
9
Yes
12.
2Mr. Leo Puri
2
NA
	
1Resigned w.e.f September 30, 2024.
	
2Appointed w.e.f December 27, 2024 
	
Save as elsewhere provided in this report, the information/
documents as required under Listing Regulations, to the 
extent applicable, were placed before the Board.
	
Statutory Compliances
	
The Board periodically reviews the mechanism put in place 
by the management to ensure the compliances with Laws 
and Regulations as may be applicable to the Company 
as well as the steps taken by the Company to rectify the 
instances of non- compliances, if any.
	
Code of Conduct
	
The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct (“the 
Code”) for all employees of the Company including 
Senior Management and Board Members, which covers 
the ethics, transparency, behavioral conduct, a gender 
friendly workplace, legal compliance and protection of 
the Company’s property and information. Further, in terms 
of Schedule IV of Companies Act, 2013, the Company 
has adopted an additional code of conduct for the 
Independent Directors. Both the codes are hosted on the 
website of the Company. In terms of Listing Regulations, 
the Senior Management and Board Members have 
confirmed the compliance with the Codes for the year 
ended on March 31, 2025. A declaration to this effect 
signed by the Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company, forms part of this Report. Details 
of the Code of Conduct are available on the Company’s 
Website 
at 
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/
policies-&-code/483
4.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
In terms of Listing Regulations and the Companies Act, 
2013, the Board has constituted 5 (Five) Committees 
viz. Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee.
	
Keeping in view the requirements of the Companies 
Act, 2013 as well as Listing Regulations, the Board 
decides the terms of reference of these Committees 
and the assignment of members to various Committees. 
The recommendations, if any, of these Committees are 
submitted to the Board for its approval.
	
A.	
Audit Committee
	
Ø	
Composition
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, Audit Committee comprised 
of the following members, namely:
	
	
(i)	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, Chairperson;
	
	
(ii)	
Ms. Shailaja Chandra;
	
	
(iii)	 Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty; and
	
	
(iv)	 Mr. Ashok Pandit
	
	
All members of the Committee are financially literate 
and have the requisite accounting and financial 
management expertise. Company Secretary acts as 
the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
	
	
The salient roles and responsibilities associated with 
the Audit Committee include, but are not limited to 
the following:
	
	
•	
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process,
	
	
•	
overseeing the integrity of the Company’s 
financial statements and announcements,
	
	
•	
overseeing the Company’s internal control 
processes and procedures,
	
	
•	
overseeing the Company’s risk management 
systems,
	
	
•	
overseeing Company’s internal audit function 
and matters in relation thereto,
	
	
•	
ensuring the independence of the statutory 
auditors with a view to facilitate a fair, 
transparent and effective audit process,
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
117
	
	
•	
to review significant accounting and reporting 
issues, including any significant changes in 
accounting principles and accounting practices,
	
	
•	
to review, with the management, the financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before 
submission to the board for approval,
	
	
•	
to review management discussion and analysis 
of financial condition and results of operations,
	
	
•	
to review the financial statements, in particular, 
the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary 
company(ies),
	
	
•	
to review and approve all related party 
transactions as reported by the Management or 
any subsequent modification thereof,
	
	
•	
to review, with the management, the statement 
of uses/application of funds raised through 
an issue, the statement of funds utilised 
for purposes other than those stated in the 
offer document/prospectus/notice and the 
report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a 
public or rights issue and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps 
in this matter,
	
	
•	
to scrutinise the inter corporate loans and 
investments,
	
	
•	
obtaining valuation of undertakings or assets 
of the Company, wherever it is deemed so 
necessary. Refer to Schedule II, Part C, A (10) 
of the LODR. While transactions in general 
do not require approval of the Committee, it 
is a general obligation of the Committee to 
undertake valuation of undertakings and assets 
of the Company,
	
	
•	
to recommend appointment, remuneration 
and terms of appointment of auditors of the 
Company after taking into consideration the 
qualifications and experience of the individual 
or the firm proposed to be considered for 
appointment as auditor,
	
	
•	
to investigate any activity within its terms of 
reference, seek information from any employee, 
obtain outside legal or other professional 
advice and secure attendance of outsiders with 
relevant expertise, if it considers necessary,
	
	
•	
to review the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism 
including 
establishing 
review 
procedures for receiving, retaining and treating 
complaints received by the Company regarding 
accounting, internal controls, and auditing 
matters which shall allow for the confidential, 
anonymous submission by employees; and 
protection of employees and others who raise 
concerns through the whistleblower mechanism, 
including direct access to the chairperson of the 
Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases,
	
	
•	
management letters/letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors,
	
	
•	
to review Internal audit reports relating to 
internal control weaknesses,
	
	
•	
evaluating internal financial controls and risk 
management systems,
	
	
•	
approving the appointment of chief financial 
officer after assessing the qualifications, 
experience and background, and other aspects 
with respect to the candidate,
	
	
•	
the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor,
	
	
•	
approving all audit and permitted non- auditing 
services to be provided by the statutory auditor to 
the Company. Adopting policies and procedures 
for the Committee’s pre-approval of the permitted 
services by the Company’s independent auditors 
on an ongoing basis, including delegation to one 
or more designated members of the Committee 
the authority to pre-approve audit and permissible 
non-audit services, provided such pre-approval 
decision is presented to the full Committee at its 
scheduled meetings.
	
	
	
The detailed and exhaustive Mandate of the 
Audit Committee reﬂecting the terms of 
reference and responsibilities for the Committee 
is available on the website of the Company 
for reference at https://www.fortishealthcare.
com/investors/terms-of-reference-of-board-
committees/484 
 
Ø	
Meetings of Audit Committee during the year
	
	
Eight (8) Meetings of the Audit Committee were held 
during the year under review on (i) May 06, 2024 (ii) 
May 22, 2024 (iii) August 06, 2024 (iv) August 30, 
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
118
2024 (v) October 25, 2024 (vi) November 07, 2024 
(vii) February 06, 2025 (viii) March 12, 2025.
	
	
The Attendance of members of Audit Committee at 
the said meetings was as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
No. of 
meetings 
attended
1.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, 
Chairperson
8
2
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
8
3.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
8
4.
Mr. Ashok Pandit
8
	
	
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, Head- Risk and Internal Audit and 
representatives of Statutory Auditors are generally 
invited to the meetings of the Audit Committee.
	
B.	
Risk Management Committee
 
Ø	
Composition
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, Risk Management Committee 
comprised of the following members, namely:
	
	
(i)	
Ms. Shailaja Chandra, Chairperson;
	
	
(ii)	
Mr. Dilip Kadambi;
	
	
(iii)	 Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi;
	
	
(iv)	 Mr. Anil Vinayak; and
	
	
(v)	
Dr. Bishnu Prasad Panigrahi
	
	
The Company Secretary, acts as the Secretary of the 
Risk Management Committee.
	
	
The salient roles and responsibilities associated with 
the Committee include, but are not limited to the 
following:
	
	
•	
to review and amend risk management policy 
and procedures,
	
	
•	
to monitor the Company’s risk profile including 
but not limited to strategic, financial, operational, 
people, 
medical, 
information 
technology 
(including cyber security), regulatory, safety, i.e. 
on-going and potential exposure to various risks 
both medical and non-medical,
	
	
•	
to take periodic review from Management 
Risk Committee on the key risk assessed and 
their mitigation plans. Further, to call upon the 
members of the Management Risk Committee 
of the Company for specific updates;
	
	
•	
to obtain reasonable assurance from the 
Management that all known and emerging 
risks have been identified;
	
	
•	
to review the measures/action plan taken by 
the management to mitigate the key/material/
existing and emerging risks, deliberate upon 
the specific actions proposed for risk mitigation 
and provide inputs where considered necessary;
	
	
•	
to review and assess the effectiveness of 
the 
Company’s 
risk 
assessment 
process 
and 
recommend 
improvement 
wherever 
appropriate;
	
	
•	
to communicate with Audit Committee at 
least once a year to exchange information and 
coordinate on issues related to risks and internal 
controls;
	
	
•	
to periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity; and
	
	
•	
to carry out such other functions as may be 
delegated by the Board from time to time.
	
	
The detailed and exhaustive Mandate of the Risk 
Management Committee reﬂecting the terms of 
reference and responsibilities for the Committee is 
available on the website of the Company for reference 
at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/terms-
of-reference-of-board-committees/484 
	
	
The Company has laid down sufficient safeguards to 
ensure risk assessment and risk management which 
forms part of Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report.
 
Ø	
Meetings of Risk Management Committee 
during the year
	
	
Two (2) Meeting of the Risk Management Committee 
were held during the year under review on 
April 17, 2024 and September 11, 2024. Further, 
one joint session has also been held with Audit 
Committee 
Members 
on 
March 
12, 
2025, 
accordingly, the attendance of members of Risk 
Management Committee at the said meetings was 
as follows:
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
119
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra, 
Chairperson
2
2.
Mr. Dilip Kadambi
0
3.
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
3
4.
Mr. Anil Vinayak
3
5.
Dr. Bishnu Prasad 
Panigrahi
3
	
	
Chief Financial Officer and Head- Risk and Internal 
Audit are invited to the meetings of the Committee.
	
C.	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
	
Ø	
Composition
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee comprised of the following members, 
namely:
	
	
(i)	
Ms. Shailaja Chandra, Chairperson;
	
	
(ii)	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee; and
	
	
(iii)	 Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
	
	
Mr. Satyendra Chauhan, Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer of the Company, acts as the 
Secretary to the Committee. 
	
	
The salient roles and responsibilities associated with 
the Stakeholders Relationship Committee include, 
but are not limited to the following:
	
	
•	
to issue the Share Certificates under the seal of the 
Company, which shall be affixed in the presence 
of and signed by any two Directors (including 
Managing or Whole-time Director, if any), and 
Company Secretary/Authorised Signatory;
	
	
•	
to authorise affixation of the Common Seal 
of the Company on Share Certificates of the 
Company;
	
	
•	
to monitor redressal of stakeholder’s complaints/
grievances including relating to non-receipt 
of Annual Report, non-receipt of dividend 
warrants, Non-receipt of securities etc; and
	
	
•	
to authorise, to maintain, preserve and keep 
in its safe custody all books and documents 
relating to the issue of share certificates, 
including the blank forms of share certificates.
	
	
The detailed and exhaustive Mandate of the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee reﬂecting 
the salient terms of reference and responsibilities is 
available for reference on the website of the Company 
at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/terms-
of-reference-of-board-committees/484 
 
Ø	
Meetings of Stakeholders Relationship Committee during the year
	
	
Four (4) meetings of Stakeholders Relationship Committee were held during the year ended March 31, 2025 on (i) May 22, 
2024 (ii) August 06, 2024 (iii) November 07, 2024 and (iv) February 06, 2025.
	
	
The attendance of members of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee at the said meetings was as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra, Chairperson
4
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
4
3.
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
3
 
Ø	
Details of Investors’ Grievances received during the FY 2024-25:
Nature of Complaints
Pending 
as on April 
01, 2024
Received 
during the 
year
Resolved/
attended 
during the 
year
Pending as 
on March 31, 
2025
Complaints not 
solved to the 
satisfaction of 
shareholder
Clarification regarding Shares Non-receipts 
of dividend warrants SEBI Complaints
0
6
6
0
0
Total
0
6
6
0
0
	
	
The Company gives utmost priority to the redressal of Investors’ Grievances which is evident from the fact that all complaints 
received from the investors were resolved expeditiously, to the satisfaction of the investors.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
120
	
D.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
 
Ø	
Composition
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee comprised of the following members, 
namely:
	
	
(i)	
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi;
	
	
(ii)	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee; and
	
	
(iii)	 Ms. Shailaja Chandra1.
	
	
1 Ms. Shailaja Chandra was appointed as member 
w.e.f. October 01, 2024 and Mr. Ravi Rajagopal 
ceased to be a member w.e.f. September 30, 2024
	
	
At every meeting, the chairperson is elected with 
mutual consent of the members present.
	
	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
	
	
The salient roles and responsibilities associated 
with the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
include, but are not limited to the following:
	
	
•	
reviewing and making recommendations, as 
appropriate, with regard to the Company’s 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy(ies) 
indicating the activities to be undertaken by the 
Company;
	
	
•	
reviewing the various proposals of CSR 
programmes/projects as submitted by CSR 
department of the Company and if thought 
fit, approval thereof, provided that the same is 
within the framework of CSR Policy;
	
	
•	
identification and appointment of various 
eligible agencies/entities for execution of CSR 
programmes or projects of the Company;
	
	
•	
fix the schedule of implementation of CSR 
projects and programmes and supervise and 
review the same;
	
	
•	
liaising with management on the Company’s 
corporate 
social 
responsibility 
program, 
including significant sustainable development, 
community relations and procedures;
	
	
•	
satisfying itself that management of the 
Company monitors trends and emerging issues 
in the corporate social responsibility field and 
evaluates the impact on the Company;
	
	
•	
scheduling reports from CSR Departments 
and/or various eligible agencies or entities on 
the Company’s corporate social responsibility 
performance to assess the effectiveness of the 
corporate social responsibility program;
	
	
•	
identifying the principal areas of risks and 
impacts relating to corporate social responsibility 
and ensuring that sufficient resources are 
allocated to address these liabilities;
	
	
•	
reviewing the Company’s corporate social 
responsibility 
performance 
to 
assess 
the 
effectiveness of the Company’s corporate 
social responsibility program and to determine 
whether the Company is taking all appropriate 
action in respect of those matters and 
has been duly diligent in carrying out its 
responsibilities and to make recommendations 
for improvement, where appropriate;
	
	
•	
recommendation of the amount of expenditure 
to be incurred on the CSR activities as per the 
framework of CSR Policy and
	
	
•	
reviewing the annual budget for the Company’s 
CSR activities to confirm that sufficient funding 
is provided for compliance with this mandate.
	
	
The detailed and exhaustive mandate of the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee reﬂecting 
the salient terms of reference and responsibilities 
for the Committee is available on the website 
of the Company for reference at https://www.
fortishealthcare.com/investors/terms-of-reference-
of-board-committees/484 
	
Ø	
Meetings of Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee during the year
	
	
2 (Two) Meetings of Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee were held during the year ended March 31, 
2025 on (i) April 25, 2024 and (ii) October 25, 2024.
	
	
The Attendance of members of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee at the said meetings was 
as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
2
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
2
3.
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal**
1
4.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra*
1
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
121
	
	
* Ms. Shailaja Chandra was appointed as member 
w.e.f. October 01, 2024
	
	
** Mr. Ravi Rajagopal ceased to be a member w.e.f. 
September 30, 2024
	
E.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
Ø	
Composition
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee comprised of the following 
members:
	
	
(i)	
Ms. Shailaja Chandra, Chairperson
	
	
(ii)	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee, and
	
	
(iii)	 Dr. Prem Kumar Nair
	
	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
	
	
The salient roles and responsibilities associated with 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
include, but are not limited to, the following:
	
	
•	
assist in identifying and finalising suitable 
candidates as members of the Board and 
recommendation of compensations norms;
	
	
•	
assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
relating to compensation of the Company’s 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) 
and other employees;
	
	
•	
formulate 
the 
criteria 
for 
determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a director and for performance 
evaluation of the Board, its directors on the 
Board and its Committees;
	
	
•	
formulate criteria for the Company’s nomination 
process for appointment of KMP’s and Senior 
Management (SMs);
	
	
•	
recommend appointment and removal of 
Directors and KMP;
	
	
•	
recommend a policy on Board;
	
	
•	
devising of remuneration policy and Board 
diversity policy for the Board Members;
	
	
•	
monitor and Evaluation of Board Evaluation 
Framework;
	
	
•	
identification of the persons who may be 
appointed in senior management, evaluation 
of performances of Key Managerial Personnel, 
monitoring 
their 
compensation 
packages, 
employment arrangements and remuneration 
policy;
	
	
•	
review and approve successsion plan for 
the Key Managerial Personnel and all senior 
Management personnel;
	
	
•	
review grant of stock options to the employees 
under different ESOP Plans of the Company.
	
	
The detailed and exhaustive Mandate reﬂecting the 
salient terms of reference and responsibilities for 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is 
available on the website of the Company for reference 
at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/terms-
of-reference-of-board-committees/484
	
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
works with the Board on the succession planning and 
ensures contingency plans are in place to meet any 
exigencies. 
	
Ø	
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent 
Directors 
	
	
The details of Board Evaluation including criteria for 
evaluation of Independent Directors form part of 
Board’s Report.
	
Ø	
Meetings of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee during the year
	
	
5 (Five) meetings of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee were held during the year ended March 
31, 2025. These were held on (i) April 26, 2024 (ii) 
May 22, 2024 (iii) July 05, 2024 (iv) December 26, 
2024 and (v) February 07, 2025.
	
	
The attendance of members of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee at these meetings was as 
follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra, 
Chairperson
5
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
5
3.
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair
5
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
122
	
Ø	
Senior Management:
	
	
The following are the Senior Management Personnel of the Company as at March 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name
Designation
1
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
2
Mr. Manu Kapila
Head – Corporate Affairs, CSR, Asset Protection & Fraud Prevention & Projects
3
Mr. Ajey Maharaj
Head - Corporate Communication & PR and Corporate Administration
4
Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal
Chief Finance Officer
5
Ms. Richa S Debgupta
Chief of Strategy, Group Head ESG & Business Head – Jaipur & Kolkata
6
Mr. Anil Vinayak
Group Chief Operating Officer (GCOO)
7
Mr. Ranjan B Pandey
Chief Human Resources Officer
8
Mr. Prabhat Kumar
Group General Counsel
9
Dr. Bishnu Prasad Panigrahi
Group Head - MSOG
10
Mr. Bipin Kumar
Chief Information Officer
11
Mr. Satyendra Chauhan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
12
Mr. Sanjay Baweja
Chief Internal Audit & Risk Officer
13
Dr. Ritu Garg
Chief Growth & Innovation Officer
14
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Dua
Vice President - M&A
15
Mr. Bidesh Chandra Paul
Group Head Supply Chain Management
	
	
The details of changes in the Senior Management Personnel during the year ended March 31, 2025 is as mentioned 
hereunder:
Sl. 
No
Name 
Designation 
Change 
1
Mr. Ajey Maharaj
Head - Corporate 
Communication & PR and 
Corporate Administration
Change in Designation w.e.f 17-Jul-24, erstwhile 
Designation - Head - Corporate Communication & PR
2
Mr. Rajeev Kumar 
Dua
Vice President - M&A
Change in Designation w.e.f 1-Apr-24, erstwhile designation 
Head Business Development & Supply Chain Management
3
Dr. Ritu Garg
Chief Growth & Innovation 
Officer
Addition to the SMP list w.e.f. 11-Jun-24
4
Mr. Bidesh Chandra 
Paul
Group Head Supply Chain 
Management
Addition to the SMP list w.e.f 11-Jun-24
 
Ø	
Remuneration policy & Criteria of making payments to Executive and Non-Executive Directors including 
Independent Directors
	
	
The remuneration policy of the Company is aimed at rewarding performance based on review of achievements on a regular 
basis and is in consonance with the existing industry practice.
	
	
The Directors’ remuneration policy of your Company is in line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. The 
remuneration paid/payable to the Executive Director(s) is, as recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, decided by the Board and approved by the Shareholders and Central Government, wherever required.
	
	
Presently, the Non-Executive Director(s) are being paid sitting fees for attending the Meetings of Board of Directors 
and various Committee(s) of Board viz. Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and separate meeting 
of Independent Directors.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
123
	
	
Non-Executive Independent Directors may be paid remuneration upto ` 73,50,000 each per annum and upto 
` 1,95,00,000/- per annum to the Chairman, if he is Independent or commission upto 1% of the Net Profits of the 
Company plus applicable taxes, calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section 198 of Companies Act, 2013, as 
approved by the shareholders at Annual General Meeting held on August 02, 2024 (valid upto March 31, 2027) which 
was later modified through postal ballot dated March 20, 2025. For the year under review, the following commission has 
been paid to Independent Directors:
Sr. No. Name of the Independent Director
(Amount in `)
1.
1Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
47,25,000
2.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
73,50,000
3.
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
73,50,000
4.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
73,50,000
5.
2Mr. Leo Puri
51,42,123.29
	
	
1Mr. Ravi Rajagopal resigned w.e.f September 30, 2024
	
	
2Mr. Leo Puri appointed w.e.f December 27, 2024
	
	
The key components of the Company’s Remuneration Policy for the Board Members are:
	
	
•	
compensation will be based on credentials and the major driver of performance;
	
	
•	
compensation will be competitive and benchmarked with industry practice;
	
	
•	
compensation will be fully transparent and tax compliant.
	
	
The Governance Document for Board which inter alia includes the Remuneration Policy of the Company is made 
available on the weblink of the website Company at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-code/483
	
Ø	
Remuneration to Directors
	
a)	
Executive Director
	
	
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi was re-appointed as Managing Director (Designated as ‘Managing Director & CEO’) of the 
Company w.e.f. March 19, 2025 for a further period of 2 years, and the same was approved at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) of the Company held on August 02, 2024. He was paid Gross salary of ` 9,59,05,889/- (Rupees Nine 
Crores Fifty Nine Lakhs Five Thousand Eight Hundred Eighty Nine Only) during the financial year ended March 31, 2025 as 
per terms of appointment. Further, in terms of his contract the notice period is 3 months.
	
	
The details of his remuneration for the FY 2024-25 are as under:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars of Remuneration
(Amount in `)
1
Gross salary
(a)
Salary as per provisions contained in section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
9,28,78,768
(b)
Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) Income-tax Act, 1961*
22,77,121
(c)
Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) Income- tax Act, 1961
Nil
2
Stock Options (in Nos.)
Nil
3
Sweat Equity
Nil
4
Commission
Nil
5
Others (Provident fund- tax free amount)
7,50,000
Total
9,59,05,889
	
	
* The perquisites include a car benefit valued at ₹ 39,600 and the employer’s contribution to the Provident Fund exceeding 
₹ 7.5 lakhs per annum. It is important to note that employer contributions up to ₹ 7.5 lakhs are tax-exempt. However, 
the perquisite value arising from the interest accrued on employer contributions to the Provident Fund and the National 
Pension Scheme (NPS) for the previous year—amounting to ₹ 7,11,496—has not been factored into the remuneration 
calculations, although it is considered for tax purposes as per the Income Tax Rules.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
124
	
b)	
Non-Executive Directors
	
	
During the period under review, sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and their shareholding as on March 31, 2025 
is as follows:
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
Gross Sitting 
Fees (`)
Shareholding in the Company 
as on March 31, 2025 or as 
on the date of resignation, 
whichever is earlier
1.
1Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
4,00,000
Nil
2.
Mr. Dilip Kadambi
10,00,000
Nil
3.
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
31,00,000
Nil
4.
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
31,00,000
Nil
5.
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
20,00,000
Nil
6.
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro
8,00,000
Nil
7.
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
4,00,000
Nil
8.
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin
-
Nil
9.
Mr. Ashok Pandit
18,00,000
Nil
10.
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair
14,00,000
Nil
11.
2Mr. Leo Puri
4,00,000
Nil
	
	
1Resigned w.e.f September 30, 2024.
	
	
2Appointed w.e.f December 27, 2024.
	
	
The Company has not granted any stock options to any of its Directors. Except as stated above and as disclosed elsewhere 
in this Annual Report including notes to Financial Statements, there was no other pecuniary relationship or transaction 
of the Non-Executive Director(s) vis-à-vis the Company, during the year under review. Further, none of the Non-Executive 
Directors are holding any convertible instrument of the Company.
5.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
	
As on April 01, 2025, Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL), International Hospital Limited (IHL), Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL) and 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (ADL) are considered as Material Subsidiaries and accordingly necessary compliances w.r.t. material 
subsidiaries have been duly carried out.
	
The Audit Committee of the Company reviews the financial statements and the investments made by the subsidiary company(ies).
	
The minutes of the Board Meeting(s) of subsidiaries as well as the statement of significant transactions and arrangement entered 
into by the unlisted subsidiaries, if any, are placed before the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time. Further, 
composition of the Board of material  subsidiaries is in accordance with Regulation 24(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
The policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries is available at https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-code/483
6.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) & CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (CFO) CERTIFICATION
	
The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certification as stipulated in Regulation 17(8) of 
Listing Regulations was placed before the Board along with financial statement(s) for the year ended March 31, 2025. The Board 
reviewed and took note of the same. The said certificate forms part of the Annual Report.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
125
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
7.
GENERAL BODY MEETING(S)
	
The location and time of the General Meetings held during the preceding three years are as follows:
Financial 
Year
Date
Time (IST)
Venue
Special Resolution(s) passed
Annual General Meetings
FY 2023-
24
August 02, 
2024
02.00 P.M.
Through Video 
Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual Means
1.	
Payment of Remuneration to Independent Director(s) for 
a period of three years effective April 1, 2024 to March 
31, 2027.
2.	
Re-appointment 
of 
Dr. 
Ashutosh 
Raghuvanshi 
(DIN: 02775637) as Managing Director (designated as 
Managing Director & CEO) for a period of two years 
effective March 19, 2025
FY 2022-
23
August 01, 
2023
02.00 P.M.
Through Video 
Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual Means
 None
FY 2021-
22
August 01, 
2022
02.00 P.M.
Through Video 
Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual Means
1.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Ravi Rajagopal (DIN: 00067073), 
as an Independent Director of the Company for another 
period of five years with effect from April 27, 2023.
2.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Indrajit Banerjee (DIN: 01365405), 
as an Independent Director of the Company for another 
period of five years with effect from April 27, 2023.
3.	
Re-appointment 
of 
Ms. 
Suvalaxmi 
Chakraborty, 
(DIN: 00106054), as an Independent Director of the 
Company for another period of five years with effect from 
April 27, 2023.
	
There is no immediate proposal for passing any resolution through Postal Ballot as on the date of this report, except as per the 
details available in public domain.
	
Details of resolutions passed by way of Postal Ballot.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations and Section 108, 110 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rules made thereunder, the members of the Company have during the year under review, approved the 
following resolutions by way of postal ballot.
	
1.	
Postal ballot Notice dated August 30, 2024 (approved on October 03, 2024):
	
	
a)	
To consider entering into a material related party transaction between the Company, NYLIM Jacob Ballas India 
Fund III LLC (“NJBIF”) and Resurgence PE Investments Limited (formerly known as Avigo PE Investments Limited) 
(“Resurgence”) (“NJBJF and Resurgence are collectively, “Related Parties”) as part of a composite transaction whereby 
the Company shall acquire the entire stake held by NJBIF, Resurgence and International Finance Corporation (“IFC”) 
(collectively “PE Investors” ) in Agilus Diagnostics Limited (“ADL”) (representing 31.52% equity stake of paid up share 
capital of ADL. (Special Resolution)
	
	
b)	
To consider raising debt through issuance of listed, senior, secured, rated Non-Convertible Debentures by the Company 
and utilisation thereof for the purposes of the proposed acquisition by the Company of 31.52% shareholding of 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited held by NYLIM Jacob Ballas India Fund III LLC, Resurgence PE Investments Limited (formerly 
known as Avigo PE Investments Limited) and International Finance Corporation. (Special Resolution).
	
	
c)	
To consider creation of encumbrance on the securities held by the Company in Agilus Diagnostics Limited (“ADL”) for 
the purposes of raising funds by way of issuance of the Non-Convertible Debentures.(Special Resolution).
	
	
d)	
To consider Amendment in the Articles of Association of the Company. (Special Resolution)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
126
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
	
	
	
For conducting the aforementioned postal ballot/electronic voting exercise, Mr. Mukesh Agarwal proprietor of M/s 
Mukesh Agarwal & Co, Practicing Company Secretaries (C.P. No. 3851), was appointed as the Scrutiniser.
	
	
	
Summary of the results of aforementioned Postal Ballot/electronic voting process announced by the Company 
Secretary of the Company on October 04, 2024:
Item
Net Valid Votes 
Polled (No. of 
Equity Shares)
Votes with assent 
for the Resolution 
(No. of Equity 
Shares and % of 
net valid votes
Votes with dissent 
for the Resolution 
(No. of Equity 
Shares and % of 
net valid votes)
To consider entering into a material related party 
transaction between the Company, NYLIM Jacob 
Ballas India Fund III LLC (“NJBIF”) and Resurgence 
PE Investments Limited (formerly known as Avigo 
PE Investments Limited) (“Resurgence”) (“NJBJF 
and Resurgence are collectively, “Related Parties”) 
as part of a composite transaction whereby the 
Company shall acquire the entire stake held 
by NJBIF, Resurgence and International Finance 
Corporation (“IFC”) (collectively “PE Investors” ) in 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (“ADL”) (representing 
31.52% equity stake of paid up share capital of 
ADL.. (Special Resolution).
41,85,29,366
41,68,83,954
(99.61%)
16,45,412 
(0.39%)
To consider raising debt through issuance of listed, 
senior, secured, rated Non-Convertible Debentures by 
the Company and utilisation thereof for the purposes 
of the proposed acquisition by the Company of 
31.52% shareholding of Agilus Diagnostics Limited 
held by NYLIM Jacob Ballas India Fund III LLC, 
Resurgence PE Investments Limited (formerly known 
as Avigo PE Investments Limited) and International 
Finance Corporation. (Special Resolution).
65,38,23,580
65,21,76,607 
(99.75%)
 16,46,973 
(0.25%)
To consider creation of encumbrance on the 
securities held by the Company in Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited (“ADL”) for the purposes of raising funds by 
way of issuance of the Non-Convertible Debentures.
(Special Resolution)
65,38,23,630
65,21,74,910 
(99.75%)
16,48,720
(0.25)%
To consider Amendment in the Articles of Association 
of the Company. (Special Resolution)
65,38,21,576
65,24,00,973 
(99.78%)
14,20,603 
(0.22)%
	
2.	
Postal Ballot Notice dated February 07, 2025 (approved on March 20, 2025):
	
	
a)	
Approval of appointment of Mr. Leo Puri (DIN: 01764813) as Director (an Independent & Non-Executive Director) of 
the Company. (Special Resolution).
	
	
b)	
To Recommend Payment of Commission/Remuneration to Chairman (Independent Director) Till March 31, 2027). 
(Special Resolution)
	
	
c)	
To consider Amendment in the Articles of Association of the Company. (Special Resolution).
	
	
d)	
Proposal for acquisition of Shrimann Hospital at Jalandhar City and transactions in relation thereto to be entered into 
by Fortis Hospotel Limited, Wholly Owned Subsidiary Company. (Special Resolution).
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
127
	
	
e)	
To consider raising debt through Fortis Hospotel Limited (“FHTL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company for 
meeting funding requirements, largely to finance the acquisition of Shrimann Hospital and for its future growth/capex 
requirements and to pledge, mortgage, hypothecate and/or create charge on any assets/properties of FHTL . (Special 
Resolution).
	
	
f)	
To consider amendment in the Articles of Association of Agilus Diagnostics Limited. (Special Resolution) 
	
	
	
For conducting the aforementioned postal ballot/electronic voting exercise, Mr. Mukesh Agarwal proprietor of M/s 
Mukesh Agarwal & Co, Practicing Company Secretaries (C.P. No. 3851), was appointed as the Scrutiniser.
	
	
	
Summary of the results of aforementioned Postal Ballot/electronic voting process announced by the Company 
Secretary of the Company on March 20, 2025:
Item
Net Valid Votes 
Polled (No. of 
Equity Shares)
Votes with assent 
for the Resolution 
(No. of Equity 
Shares and % of 
net valid votes)
Votes with dissent 
for the Resolution 
(No. of Equity 
Shares and % of 
net valid votes)
Approval of appointment of Mr. Leo Puri (DIN: 
01764813) as Director (an Independent & Non-
Executive Director) of the Company. (Special 
Resolution).
65,45,23,201
654195948 
(99.95%)
327253 
(0.05%)
To 
Recommend 
Payment 
of 
Commission/
Remuneration to Chairman (Independent Director) 
Till March 31, 2027). (Special Resolution)
65,45,24,809
59,40,68,571 
(90.76%)
6,04,56,238 
(9.24%)
To consider Amendment in the Articles of Association 
of the Company. (Special Resolution).
65,45,25,293
64,74,16,140
(98.91%)
71,09,153
(1.09%)
Proposal for acquisition of Shrimann Hospital at 
Jalandhar City and transactions in relation thereto 
to be entered into by Fortis Hospotel Limited, Wholly 
Owned Subsidiary Company. (Special Resolution).
65,38,31,695
64,00,59,891 
(97.89%)
1,37,71,804 
(2.11%)
To consider raising debt through Fortis Hospotel 
Limited (“FHTL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Company for meeting funding requirements, largely 
to finance the acquisition of Shrimann Hospital 
and for its future growth/capex requirements and 
to pledge, mortgage, hypothecate and/or create 
charge on any assets/properties of FHTL . (Special 
Resolution).
65,45,25,295
64,03,83,323 
(97.84%)
1,41,41,972 
(2.16%)
To consider amendment in the Articles of Association 
of Agilus Diagnostics Limited. (Special Resolution).
65,45,25,302
65,43,47,459 
(99.97%)
1,77,843 
(0.03%)
	
	
	
Procedure for Voting by Postal Ballot and E-voting
	
	
	
In compliance with Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations and Section 108, 110 and other applicable provisions of 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules made thereunder, the Company provides e-voting Facility to the Members. The 
Notice of Postal Ballot along with the Explanatory Statement pertaining to the draft Resolution(s) explaining in detail, 
the material facts along with Postal Ballot form are sent to all the members, whose name appear on the register of 
members as on the cut-off date, under secured mode of Posting/through e-mail. The members were given option 
to vote either through the Postal Ballot Forms or through e-voting facility. The Company also publishes a notice 
in the newspaper declaring the details of completion of dispatch and other requirements as mandated under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
128
	
	
	
The members are required to carefully read the 
instructions printed in the Postal Ballot Form, 
fill up the Form, give their assent or dissent on 
the resolution(s) at the end of the Form and 
return the duly completed and signed postal 
ballot form via registered email id so as to reach 
the scrutiniser before the closure of working 
hours of the last date fixed for the purpose or 
post their assent or dissent through e-voting 
module. Postal Ballot Form received after this 
date, is strictly treated as if the Form has not 
been received from the member.
	
	
	
Voting rights are reckoned on the basis of 
number of shares and paid-up value of shares 
registered in the name of the shareholders on 
the specified date. A resolution is deemed to 
have been passed as special resolution if the 
votes cast in favor are at least three times than 
the votes cast against and in case of ordinary 
resolution, the resolution is deemed to have 
been passed, if the votes cast in favor are more 
than the votes cast against.
	
	
	
For the members who opted for e-voting facility, 
they casted their votes via E-voting portal of 
Depositories (NSDL or CDSL) or through KTL 
e-voting system of KFIN Technologies Limited 
(KFIN) as detailed in Notice of Postal ballot.
	
	
	
The scrutiniser appointed for the purpose 
scrutinises the postal ballots and e-votes 
received and submit his consolidated report to 
the Company. The results are also displayed 
on the website of the Company- https://
www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/general-
meeting-and-postal-ballots/491 and the last 
date for voting is deemed to be the date of 
passing the resolution(s).
8.
DISCLOSURES
	
•	
Related Party Transactions
	
	
The details of transactions with related parties as 
prescribed in the Listing Regulations, are placed 
before the Audit Committee periodically. Further, the 
details of all material transactions if any with related 
parties, are also disclosed quarterly along with the 
compliance report on Corporate Governance.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
	
	
In the cases of material transaction, the same 
are pursued under direct guidance of the Audit 
Committee 
with 
appropriate 
disclosures 
and 
safeguards being implemented to isolate the conﬂict. 
Wherever, required external expert opinion is sought 
for Board/ Audit consideration. Further, in accordance 
with the Listing Regulations, the Company has 
adopted a Policy on ‘Materiality on Related Party 
Transactions’ and the same is viewed at https://www.
fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-code/483 
on ‘Materiality on Related Party Transactions.
	
	
During the year under review, there have been no 
materially significant related party transactions, 
monetary transactions or relationships between the 
Company and its directors, the Management, their 
relatives or subsidiaries which may have potential 
conﬂict with the interest of Company at large except 
for those disclosed in the Board’s Report. Detailed 
information on materially significant related party 
transactions is enclosed to the Board’s Report.
	
	
Your Company has complied with the disclosure 
requirement in compliance with the Accounting 
Standards on “Related Party Disclosures”. Further, 
your Directors wish to draw attention of the members 
to note 6 in the notes to accounts in the standalone 
financial statement and to note 9 in the notes to 
accounts in the consolidated financial statement 
which sets out related party disclosures.
	
•	
Accounting Treatment
	
	
While in the preparation of financial statements, the 
treatment that has been prescribed in the Accounting 
Standards has been followed to represent the facts in 
the financial statement in a true and fair manner.
	
•	
Compliances by Company
	
	
The Company has complied with the requirements 
of the Stock Exchange(s), Securities and Exchange 
Board of India or other authorities on any matter 
related to Capital Market during the last 3 (three) 
years, except, as disclosed from time to time.
	
	
During the year under review, there were no 
non compliance of requirements of Corporate 
Governance Report of Sub para 2 to 10 of Clause C 
of Schedule V of SEBI (LODR), 2015.
	
	
There were no penalties levied by the Stock Exchanges 
during the FY 2024-25.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
129
9.
MANAGEMENT
	
During the period under review, no material, financial 
and commercial transaction had been entered by Senior 
Management Personnel, where they have any personal 
interest that may have potential conﬂict with the Company 
at large. The Company has obtained requisite declarations 
from all Senior Management Personnel in this regard and 
the same were duly placed before the Board of Directors 
on periodic basis.
10. WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY/VIGIL MECHANISM
	
The Company strongly supports and strives to provide 
a structured platform via Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil 
Mechanism for reporting of instances of alleged wrongful 
conduct or gross waste or misappropriation of funds 
including instances of unethical behavior, actual or 
suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s code 
of conduct. Through this Policy, the Company seeks to 
provide a procedure for all the employees, Directors and 
other stakeholders of the Company to report concerns 
about unethical and improper practice taking place in the 
Company and provide for adequate safeguards against 
victimisation of Director(s)/employee(s)/Stakeholder(s) who 
avail of the mechanism and also provide for direct access 
to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, in exceptional 
cases. It protects employees, officers and Directors who 
in, good faith, raise a concern about irregularities within 
the Company. It is hereby confirmed that no personnel 
have been denied access to the Audit Committee. The 
Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy in line with 
the requirements laid down under Companies Act, 2013 
and Listing Regulations. The same is available at https://
www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-code/483
	
Code of conduct for Prevention on Insider Trading
	
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading of the 
Company, as approved by the Board of Directors, inter 
alia, lays down the procedure for dealing in securities of 
the Company by Directors, Designated Employees and 
other employees while in possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information in relation to the Company and its 
disclosure thereto. The same is available at https://www.
fortishealthcare.com/investors/policies-&-code/483 
11. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
a)	
Quarterly Results: The Company’s quarterly/half 
yearly/annual financial results are sent to the Stock 
Exchanges and generally published in Financial 
Express (English) and Rozana Spokesman (Punjabi).
	
b)	
Website: The financial results are posted on the 
Company’s website viz. https://www.fortishealthcare.
com/investors/outcome-of-board-meeting/516
	
c)	
Press Release, Presentations: The Company also 
makes a presentation to the institutional investors 
and analysts after taking on record the financial 
results of the Company. The press releases/official 
news, detailed presentation made to media, analysts, 
institutional investors etc. are displayed on the 
Company’s website viz. https://www.fortishealthcare.
com/investors/disclosure-under-reg.-30-of-sebi-
(lodr)/513. Official Media Releases are also sent to 
the stock exchanges before dissemination to the 
media.
	
d)	
Intimation to the Stock Exchanges: The Company 
intimates the Stock Exchanges on all price sensitive 
information or such other matters which in its 
opinion are material and of relevance to the Investors 
from time to time in compliance with SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations.
	
e)	
NEAPS (NSE Electronic Application Processing 
System), BSE Corporate Compliance and the 
Listing Centre: NEAPS is a web-based application 
designed by NSE for corporates. BSE Listing is a web-
based application designed by BSE for corporates. All 
periodical compliance filings, inter alia, shareholding 
pattern, Corporate Governance Report, corporate 
announcements, amongst others in accordance with 
the Listing Regulations are filed electronically.
	
f)	
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES 2.0) 
and Online Dispute Resolution (ODR): The 
investor complaints are processed in a centralised 
web-based complaints redress system. The salient 
features of this system are: Centralised database of 
all complaints, online upload of Action Taken Reports 
(ATRs) by concerned companies and online viewing 
by investors of actions taken on the complaint and 
its current status. The Company submits ATR on 
timely basis with respect to the complaints received 
from SCORES. The Members can access the SCORES 
portal at https://scores.sebi.gov.in/.
	
	
In case any Member is still not satisfied with the 
outcome of the resolution, they can initiate dispute 
resolution through the ODR Portal at https://
smartodr.in/login. 
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
130
	
	
The ODR Portal has the necessary features and 
facilities to, inter alia, enroll the Member to file 
the complaint/dispute. Your Company has done 
necessary enrolment on the ODR Portal of the stock 
exchanges. For detailed processes, the said circulars 
can be viewed on the Company’s website on the 
link 
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investors/
regulatory-updates/846
	
g)	
Designated Exclusive email-id: The Company 
has designated the following email-id for investor 
servicing: secretarial@fortishealthcare.com. Investors 
can also mail their queries to Registrar and Transfer 
Agent at einward.ris@kfintech.com.
12. GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
	
Annual General Meeting 
	
Date of AGM
	
The Annual General Meeting of the Company for the FY 
2024-25 is proposed to be held on Monday, August 11, 
2025 at 14:00 P.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing or 
other Audio-Visual means.
	
(i)	
Financial Year of the Company is starting from 
April 01 and ending on March 31 of next year.
	
(ii)	 Financial calendar 2025-26 (tentative & subject 
to change)
S. 
No.
Tentative Schedule
Tentative Date
 (On or Before)
1
Financial Reporting for the 
quarter ended June 30, 
2025
August 14, 
2025
2
Financial Reporting for the 
quarter ending September 
30, 2025
November 14, 
2025
3
Financial Reporting for the 
quarter ending December 
31, 2025
February 14, 
2026
4
Financial Reporting for the 
quarter and year ending 
March 31, 2026
May 30, 
2026
5
Annual General meeting for 
the year ending March 31, 
2026
September 30, 
2026
	
(iii)	 Listing on Stock Exchanges
	
	
As on date, the Company’s Equity Shares are listed 
on the following Stock Exchanges:
	
	
•	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE), 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai-400051
	
	
•	
BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal 
Street, Mumbai - 400 001.
	
	
Further, the Company has issued 1,55,000 (One 
lac and fifty-five thousand) listed, senior, secured, 
rated, 
redeemable 
Non-Convertible 
Debenture 
each having a face value of ` 1,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees One lac) and an aggregate value of up to 
` 1550,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees One Thousand 
Five Hundred and Fifty Crores only) which are listed 
on BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal 
Street, Mumbai - 400 001.
	
	
The Company has paid listing fees to the above 
stock exchanges for equity and Non-Convertible 
Debentures for the FY 2025-26 and there are no 
outstanding payments as on date.
	
(iv)	 Registrar and Transfer Agent
	
	
M/s. KFIN Technologies Limited (formerly known 
as KFIN Technologies Private Limited) is acting as 
Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) for handling the 
shares related matters both in physical as well as 
dematerialised mode. All work relating to equity 
shares are being handled by them. The Shareholders 
are therefore, advised to send all their correspondence 
directly to the RTA. The address for communication is:
	
	
M/s. KFIN Technologies Limited Selenium Building, 
Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad, Telangana - 
500032.
	
	
Toll Free No.: 1800 309 4001
	
	
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
However, for the convenience of shareholders, 
correspondence relating to shares received by the 
Company is forwarded to the RTA for necessary 
action thereon.
	
(v)	 Nomination Facility
	
	
The shareholders holding shares in physical form 
may, if they so want, send their nomination(s), as 
per Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rule 19 of the Companies (Share Capital and 
Debentures) Rules, 2014, in form SH-13, which can 
be obtained from the Company’s RTA. Those holding 
shares in dematerialised form may contact their 
respective Depository Participant (DP) to avail the 
nomination facility.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
131
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, 75,48,18,690 Equity shares 
representing 99.98% of the paid-up Equity Share 
Capital of the Company have been dematerialised.
	
	
The shareholders holding shares in physical form 
are requested to get their shares dematerialised at 
the earliest, as the Company’s Shares are required 
to be compulsorily traded at Stock Exchanges in 
dematerialised form only.
	
(vi)	 Elimination of Duplicate Mailing
	
	
The shareholders who are holding Shares in 
more than one folio in identical name or in joint 
holders’ name in similar order, may send the share 
certificate(s) along with request for consolidation 
of holding in one folio to avoid mailing of multiple 
Annual Reports.
	
(vii)	Share Transfer System
	
	
The Company’s share transfer authority has been 
delegated to the officials of the Company. The 
delegated authority(ies) attend the share transfer 
formalities to expedite all matters relating to 
transfer, transmission, transposition, split and re-
materialisation of shares and take on record status of 
redressal of Investors’ Grievance, etc., if any. Further 
in terms of Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations, the 
board of directors of a listed entity may delegate 
the power for certain activities to a committee or to 
compliance officer or to the registrar to an issue and/
or share transfer agent(s). The Board of Directors of 
the Company has authorised M/s. KFIN Technologies 
Limited (formerly known as KFIN Technologies 
Private Limited), Registrar and Transfer Agent of the 
Company for approving certain activities on behalf 
of the Company upto a threshold limit. Further, 
any request beyond the specified limit is approved 
by the Stakeholders Relationship Committee and 
subsequently placed before the Board for its noting.
	
(viii)	Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit
	
	
The Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit as 
stipulated under Regulation 76 of SEBI (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulations, 2018) (erstwhile 
Regulation 55A of SEBI (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations, 1996) was carried out by a Practicing 
Company Secretary for each of the quarter in the FY 
2024-25, to reconcile the total admitted capital with 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) 
and total issued and listed capital. The Reconciliation 
of Share Capital Audit Reports (the Audit report) 
confirm that the total issued/subscribed paid up 
capital is in agreement with the total number of 
shares in physical form and the total number of 
dematerialised shares held with the depositories. 
Such Audit Report for each quarter of the FY 2024-
25, has been filed with Stock Exchanges within Thirty 
days from the end of the respective quarter.
	
(ix)	 Details of Demat Suspense Account -
	
	
The Company had opened a Demat Suspense 
Account- “Fortis Healthcare Limited IPO Suspense 
Account”.
	
	
i.	
Aggregate Number of the Shareholders and 
the outstanding shares in the suspense account 
lying at the beginning of the year i.e. April 01, 
2025: 48 shareholders and 4,677 shares.
	
	
ii.	
Number of shareholders who approached issuer 
for transfer of shares from suspense account 
during the year: NIL
	
	
iii.	
Number of shareholders to whom shares were 
transferred from the suspense account during 
the year: NIL
	
	
iv.	
Aggregate number of shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in the suspense account 
lying at the end of the year i.e. March 31, 2025: 
48 shareholders and 4,677 shares.
	
	
It is also confirmed that that the voting rights on 
the above shares shall remain frozen till the rightful 
owner of such shares claims the shares.
	
(x)	 Share Dematerialisation System and Liquidity
	
	
The requests for dematerialisation of shares are 
processed by RTA expeditiously and the confirmation 
in respect of dematerialisation is entered by RTA in 
the depository system of the respective depositories, 
by way of electronic entries for dematerialisation of 
shares generally on weekly basis. In case of rejections, 
the documents are returned under objection to the 
Depository Participant with a copy to the shareholder 
and electronic entry for rejection is made by RTA in 
the Depository System.
	
	
Further, w.e.f. April 01, 2019, as per the circular issued 
by SEBI, no transfer can be affected in physical form.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
132
	
(xi)	 Details on Outstanding Securities as on March 31, 2025 and details of commodity price risk, foreign exchange 
risk & hedging activity
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Company has not issued any GDRs, ADRs, Warrants or any other convertible instruments. No 
FCCBs stand outstanding in the Books of the Company as on date.
	
	
During the year the Company has issued the Listed Rated Senior Secured Non Convertible Debentures through private 
placement under following series- 
Particulars
No. of Securities
Face Value (in `)
Series 1
50,000
1,00,000
Series 2
50,000
Series 3
55,000
	
	
Details of commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk & hedging activity (commodity or otherwise), as applicable, during 
the financial year under review are provided in notes to accounts which forms part of the Annual Report. It is hereby 
confirmed that the Company is not involved in commodity and/or derivative market.
	
(xii)	Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025
Distribution of Shareholding as on 31/03/2025 (TOTAL)
Sr. 
No.
Category (Shares)
No. of Holders
% to Holders
No. of Shares
% to Equity
1
 1-5000
 2,15,905 
 95.71 
 1,12,30,896 
 1.49 
2
 5001- 10000
 4,716 
 2.09 
 36,65,120 
 0.49 
3
 10001- 20000
 2,151 
 0.95 
 32,31,864 
 0.43 
4
 20001- 30000
 719 
 0.32 
 18,33,657 
 0.24 
5
 30001- 40000
 373 
 0.17 
 13,49,856 
 0.18 
6
 40001- 50000
 280 
 0.12 
 13,30,357 
 0.18 
7
 50001- 100000
 502 
 0.22 
 37,96,599 
 0.50 
8
100001& Above
 938 
 0.42 
 72,85,19,799 
 96.50 
Total
 2,25,584 
 100.00 
 75,49,58,148 
 100.00 
	
(xiii)	Shareholding pattern as on March 31, 2025
Sr. 
No
Category (Shares)
No. of Cases
Total Shares
% Equity
1
ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND 
14
10,03,621
0.13
2
BANKS 
2
90,00,015
1.19
3
CLEARING MEMBERS 
5
374
0.00
4
EMPLOYEES 
24
1,87,414
0.02
5
FOREIGN CORPORATE BODIES 
1
6,70,194
0.09
6
FOREIGN NATIONALS 
1
159
0.00
7
FOREIGN PROMOTERS 
1
23,52,94,117
31.17
8
FOREIGN PORTFOLIO - CORP 
410
20,68,62,725
27.40
9
H U F 
4507
15,47,823
0.21
10
BODIES CORPORATES 
937
89,46,832
1.19
11
MUTUAL FUNDS 
168
19,45,36,717
25.77
12
NBFC 
6
14,855
0.00
13
NON RESIDENT INDIANS 
2414
12,76,976
0.17
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
133
Sr. 
No
Category (Shares)
No. of Cases
Total Shares
% Equity
14
NON RESIDENT INDIAN NON REPATRIABLE 
1925
6,87,235
0.09
15
RESIDENT INDIVIDUALS 
215139
7,69,53,530
10.19
16
QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER 
20
1,78,89,948
2.37
17
TRUSTS 
10
85,613
0.01
 
Total:
2,25,584
75,49,58,148
100.00
	
(xiv)	Lock-in of Equity Shares
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, no Equity shares of the 
Company are under lock in.
	
(xv) Employee Stock Option
	
	
Detailed information relating on Employee Stock 
Option, has been mentioned in the Board’s Report.
          (xvi)	 Details of Agreement under Clause 5A, Para A of 
Part-A of Schedule III of SEBI LODR Regulations:
	
	
The requisite details are mentioned in the annual 
report for the year ended 2023-24.
       (xvii)	Hospitals/Unit(s)/Location(s)-
	
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited alongwith its subsidiaries 
provide healthcare services in Delhi-NCR, Chennai, 
Bangalore, Punjab, Jaipur and other cities. The 
locations of the hospital units managed by your 
Company are as follows:
	
	
Fortis Hospital, Mohali
	
	
Sector-62, 
Phase-VIII, 
SAS 
Nagar, 
Mohali, 
Punjab-160062
	
	
Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh	
	
	
A Block, Shalimar Bagh, Near Kela Godown, New 
Delhi-110088
	
	
Fortis Hospital, Manesar
	
	
Fortis Hospital, Plot no 2, Sector-5, IMT Manesar, 
Gurugram, Haryana-122052
	
	
Fortis O P Jindal Hospital, Raigarh  
(a Fortis network hospital)
	
	
Fortis O P Jindal Hospital, Patrapali, Near JSPL Plant, 
Kharsia Road, Raigarh - 492001, Chhattisgarh
	
	
Fortis Hospital, Kangra
	
	
Dharamshala Road, Kangra, Himachal Pradesh  - 
176001
	
	
S L Raheja Hospital, Mumbai  
(a Fortis network hospital)
	
	
S L Raheja Hospital, Raheja Rugnalaya Marg, Mahim 
West, Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400016
     (xviii)	 Shareholders Communication – Address for 
correspondence
	
	
The Company understands the significance of two- 
way communication with the shareholders. The 
Company’s website is constantly updated with the 
latest disclosures/information as the shareholders 
may require from time to time. In compliance 
with Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations, a 
separate dedicated section under ‘Investors’ on the 
Company’s website gives information on various 
announcements made by the Company, Annual 
Report, Quarterly/Annual financial results along 
with the applicable policies of the Company. The 
Company’s official press releases and presentations 
made to the institutional investors and analysts are 
also available on the Company’s website (www.
fortishealthcare.com).
	
	
For Share transfer/dematerialisation of shares/
payment of dividend and for any other query 
relating to shares, the shareholders may contact 
at the below address:
	
	
M/s. KFIN Technologies Limited
	
	
Selenium Building, Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, 
Gachibowli, 
Financial 
District, 
Nanakramguda, 
Hyderabad, Telangana - 500032,Selenium Building, 
Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad, Telangana - 
500032, Toll Free No.: 1-800 309 4001, E-mail: 
einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
For Investor Assistance
	
	
The Company Secretary and Compliance Officer, 
 	
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited
	
	
Tower A, Unitech Business Park,  
Block F, South city - 1, Sector - 41, 
Gurugram, Haryana - 122001  
Telephone No. 0124 4921021
	
	
Fax No. 0124 4921041
	
	
Email: secretarial@fortishealthcare.com,  
Website: www.fortishealthcare.com
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
134
	
(xix)	Details of Credit Ratings
	
	
List of all credit ratings obtained by the entity and its subsidiaries along with any revisions thereto during the relevant 
financial year, for all debt instruments of such entity or any fixed deposit programme or any scheme or proposal of the 
listed entity involving mobilisation of funds, whether in India or abroad is as given below:
Entity
Credit 
Rating 
Agency
Type of Rating
Rating as on  
March 31, 2024
Movement
Rating as on 
March 31, 2025
Fortis Healthcare Limited
CRISIL
Long Term Loan 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL AA 
/Stable
-
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
Fortis Healthcare Limited
CRISIL
Non Converible 
Debentures
- 
Fresh rating during 
FY 2024-25
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
Fortis Healthcare Limited
CRISIL
Working Capital 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL A1+
-
CRISIL A1+
Fortis Hospitals Limited
CRISIL
Long Term Loan 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL AA 
/Stable
-
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
Fortis Hospitals Limited
CRISIL
Working Capital 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL A1+
-
CRISIL A1+
Escorts Heart Institute and 
Research Centre Limited
CRISIL
Long Term Loan 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL AA 
/Stable
-
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
Escorts Heart Institute and 
Research Centre Limited
CRISIL
Working Capital 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL A1+
-
CRISIL A1+
International Hospital 
Limited
CRISIL
Long Term Loan 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL AA 
/Stable
-
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
International Hospital 
Limited
CRISIL
Working Capital 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL A1+
-
CRISIL A1+
Fortis Hospotel Limited
CRISIL
Long Term Loan 
Facility e/(ies)
CRISIL AA 
/Stable
-
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
Fortis Hospotel Limited
CRISIL
Working Capital 
Facility/(ies)
CRISIL A1+
-
CRISIL A1+
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
CRISIL
Long Term Loan 
Facility e/(ies
CRISIL AA 
/Stable
-
CRISIL AA  
/Stable
	
(xx)	 Details of Utilisation of funds raised through preferential allotment
	
	
The details of utilisation of funds raised through preferential allotment forms part of Notes to Financial Statement which 
forms part of this Annual Report.
	
(xxi)	Certificate from Practicing Company Secretary
	
	
The Company is in receipt of a certificate from M/s. Neelam Gupta & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries confirming 
that none of the directors on the board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as directors of companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. The said 
certificate is attached to this report.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
135
	
(xxii)	Payments to statutory auditors
	
	
Particulars of total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries (including indirect taxes), on a consolidated 
basis, to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part is 
given below:-
 (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Statutory Audit
596.96
Tax Audit
35.97
Limited Reviews
342.99
Other services
39.53
Out of Pocket Expenses
93.33
Total
1,108.79
	
(xxiii)	Disclosure(s) in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013 is provided in the Board’s Report.
	
(xxiv)	It is confirmed that there was no instance during FY 2024-25 when the Board had not accepted any recommendation of 
any committee of the Board.
	
(xxv)	 Particulars of Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which directors are interested for the FY 
2024-25 forms part of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
	
(xxvi)	Details of material subsidiaries of the Company including the date and place of incorporation and the name and date of 
appointment of the statutory auditors of such subsidiaries, are as under:
Name of Material Subsidiary
Date of 
Incorporation
Place of 
Incorporation
Name of Statutory 
Auditors
Date of 
Appointment
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
July 07, 1995
New Delhi, Delhi
M/s. B S R & Co. LLP
August 01, 2024
Fortis Hospitals Limited
June 18, 2009
Gurgaon, Haryana
July 31, 2024
International Hospital Limited
March 08, 1994
New Delhi, Delhi
August 28, 2020
Fortis Hospotel Limited
January 23, 1990
Mohali, Punjab
September 14, 2020
	
(xxvii)	The Board of Directors has recommended a Final Dividend of ` 1 per share for the Financial Year 2024-25, subject to the 
shareholder’s approval. The same shall be paid on or before September 9, 2025 (i.e. within 30 days from the date of AGM). 
Further, the Dividend shall be paid electronically to all the shareholders who have furnished bank account details to the 
Company/its Registrar and Transfer Agent/Depository Participant, as applicable.
13. MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
	
The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of the Listing Regulations relating to Corporate Governance 
i.e. Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of Listing Regulations except elsewhere 
mentioned in this report.
	
M/s. Neelam Gupta & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries has audited the compliances of Corporate Governance and 
after being satisfied on the same, issued a certificate on compliance to the Company, which forms part of this report.
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
136
14. COMPLIANCE/ADOPTION OF DISCRETIONARY REQUIREMENT UNDER PART E TO SCHEDULE II TO THE LISTING
REGULATIONS
	
A. 	 The Board 
	
	
The Company’s Non-Executive Chairperson is entitled to maintain Chairperson’s Office at the Company’s expense and also 
allowed reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.
	
B. 	 Modified Opinion(s) in Audit Report
	
	
The statutory Auditors have issued Audit report with unmodified audit opinion.
	
C. 	 Separate posts of Chairman and CEO
	
	
The Company has appointed separate persons to the post of the Chairman and the Managing Director or the Chief 
Executive Officer. The Company’s Chairman is a Non-Executive Independent Director.
	
D. 	 Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
	
The Chief Internal Audit and Risk Officer reports directly to the Audit Committee/Board of Directors.
	
E. 	
Independent Directors
	
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Independent Directors met twice on  February 06, 2024 and March 19, 2025 
without the presence of Non-Independent Directors and Members of Management.
15. GO GREEN INITIATIVE
	
(a)	
The shareholders having shares in physical form are requested to register their e-mail ids with us or our RTA, at the address 
given in this report, to enable us to serve any document, notice, communication, annual report, etc. through e-mail.
	
(b)	
The shareholders holding shares in Demat form are requested to register their e-mail id with their respective Depository 
Participant for the above purpose.
Declaration as required under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015
All Directors and Senior Management personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with the provisions of the Fortis Code of 
Conduct for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
For & on behalf of Board of Directors
Sd/-
Date: May 20, 2025	
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Place: Gurugram	
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
DIN: 02775637
Report on Corporate Governance (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
137
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
[for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025]
Regulation 17(8) and Regulation 62(D) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
The Members
Audit Committee/Board of Directors
Fortis Healthcare Limited
Dear Sir(s)/Madam(s),
We, Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer and Mr Vivek Kumar Goyal, Chief Financial 
Officer of the Company, certify that:
(a)	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash ﬂow 
statement for the year ended March 31, 2025 and that to 
the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
(1)	
these statements do not contain any materially 
untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading;
	
(2)	
these statements together present a true and fair 
view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance 
with existing accounting standards, applicable laws 
and regulations.
(b)	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no 
transactions entered into by the Company during the year 
which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s 
code of conduct.
(c)	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining 
internal controls for financial reporting and that we have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems 
of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and 
have disclosed to the auditors and the audit committee, 
deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal 
controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps 
taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
(d)	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee 
that:
	
(1)	
There have been no significant changes in internal 
control over financial reporting during the year under 
review;
	
(2)	
There have been no significant changes in accounting 
policies during the year except to the extent already 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statement(s); 
and
	
(3)	
There are no instances of significant fraud of which 
we are aware and the involvement therein, if any, of 
the management or an employee having a significant 
role in the Company’s internal control system over 
financial reporting.
For Fortis Healthcare Limited
Sd/-
Sd/-
Vivek Kumar Goyal
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Chief Financial Officer
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer 
DIN: 02775637
Place : Gurugram 
Date :May 20,2025
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
138
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS 
under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
To,
The Members
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Tower A, Unitech Business Park, Block - F South City - 1,
Sector-41, Gurgaon, Haryana - 122001
1.	
This report contains details of compliance of conditions of corporate governance by Fortis Healthcare Limited (hereinafter 
called “the Company”/“Fortis”) for the year ended March 31, 2025, as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, clause (b) to (i) of 
Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time (‘Listing Regulations’) pursuant to the Listing 
Agreement of the Company with the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (collectively referred to as 
the ‘Stock Exchanges’).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONDITIONS OF LISTING REGULATIONS
2.	
The compliance with the terms and conditions contained in the Corporate Governance, including the preparation and 
maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents, is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARY’S RESPONSIBILITY
3.	
The examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance 
of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
4.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is my responsibility to provide a reasonable assurance whether the 
Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations for the year ended 
March 31, 2025.
OPINION
5.	
In my opinion, and to the best of my information and according to explanations given to me, I certify that the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
6.	
I state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
RESTRICTION ON USE
7.	
The certificate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Company solely for the purpose to enable the Company to 
comply with the requirements of the Listing Regulations, and the same shall not be used by any other person or for any other 
purpose. Accordingly, I do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person 
to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands it may come without my prior consent in writing.
For Neelam Gupta and Associates
(Neelam Gupta)
Practicing Company Secretary 
FCS : 3135 
CP : 6950
Date: May 20, 2025	
PR : 747/2020
Place: Ghaziabad	
UDIN: F003135G000379478 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
139
To,
The Members,
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Tower A, Unitech Business Park, Block - F South City - 1,
Sector-41, Gurgaon, Haryana - 122001
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of FORTIS HEALTHCARE 
LIMITED (hereinafter called “the Company”/“Fortis”) having CIN: L85110PB1996PLC045933, produced before me by the Company 
for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company and its officers, 
I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on March 
31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. 
No. 
Full Name
DIN
Date of Appointment
1.
Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
00106054
April 27, 2018
2.
Indrajit Banerjee
01365405
April 27, 2018
3.
Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
02775637
March 19, 2019
4.
Dilip Kadambi
02148022
June 04, 2020
5.
Shailaja Chandra
03320688
June 28, 2020
6.
Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
10073483
March 28, 2023
7.
Tomo Nagahiro
10074111
March 28, 2023
8.
Lim Tsin Lin
10118906
May 04, 2023
9.
Ashok Pandit
09279899
September 13, 2023
10.
Prem Kumar Nair
10348774
November 10, 2023
11.
Leo Puri
01764813
December 27, 2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
For Neelam Gupta and Associates
(Neelam Gupta)
Practicing Company Secretary 
FCS : 3135 
CP : 6950
Place : Ghaziabad 
PR No. : 747/2020
Date 
: May 20, 2025
UDIN : F003135G000379500 
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
140
SECTION A - GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Statement by director responsible for the business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure)
ESG at Fortis Healthcare: Deepening Purpose, Broadening 
Impact
At Fortis Healthcare, ESG is not a peripheral function—it is the 
deep code of our institutional operating system. Inspired by the 
Triple Bottom Line framework (People, Planet, Profit) and Donella 
Meadows’ systems thinking principles about interconnected 
wholes instead of isolated parts, our ESG philosophy views 
healthcare not just as a service, but as a force for societal 
regeneration. FY 2024–25 marked a year of weaving ESG more 
tightly into our organisational DNA—translating strategy into 
structure, data into decisions, and intent into institution-wide 
alignment.
We operate in a sector where the stakes are inherently high—
where each kilowatt saved, each litre of water conserved, 
and each human treated with dignity echoes far beyond the 
walls of our hospitals. Our ESG strategy is thus shaped by 
double materiality, balancing enterprise value with ecosystem 
wellbeing, and aligning short-term excellence with long-term 
shared prosperity.
Environmental Stewardship: Doing More with Less
In FY 2024–25, we continued to push the frontiers of 
operational sustainability:
•	
A 6.53% reduction in per occupied bed electricity 
consumption marked a significant step in our energy 
optimisation efforts. This achievement is not just a 
metric—it reflects improved system efficiency, enhanced 
behavioral alignment, and smart engineering solutions.
•	
With 98% water metering infrastructure deployed, we are 
future-ready in water governance—enabling precision, 
accountability, and proactive conservation across our 
hospitals.
•	
Our approach to bio-medical waste management is 
evolving from compliance to circularity. We are embracing 
principles of reduce, reuse, recycle, and life-cycle 
thinking—ensuring safe, scientific, and sustainable waste 
management across all five mandated categories.
Social Impact: From Awareness to Ownership
Sustainability is a team sport. This year, we expanded ESG 
engagement across functions and stakeholders:
•	
Multiple trainings were held for our employees in HR, 
IT, Supply Chain, Secretarial, Unit Engineering & Admin 
teams, along with our top vendor partners. The trainees 
were sensitised and trained on ESG and BRSR data 
principles—fostering a shared language of sustainability.
•	
Thousands were engaged during World Environment Day 
through hospital-led outreach, awareness drives, and 
green pledges—taking our message beyond our walls.
•	
We completed a sustainability assessment of our 
top vendors, embedding ESG expectations into our 
procurement ecosystem.
•	
The launch of the Fortis Premier League ESG Excellence 
Awards gamified impact and inspired bottom-up 
innovation, rewarding teams that turned intent into 
action.
Governance & Transparency: Raising the Bar
In an era that demands radical transparency, we made 
substantial progress in disclosure maturity:
•	
We continue to maintain zero data breaches – a testament 
to our efforts to safeguard sensitive patient data.
•	
We conducted our first double materiality assessment, 
ensuring that our ESG priorities reflect both internal risk 
and external stakeholder relevance.
•	
We secured third-party reasonable assurance for BRSR Core 
disclosures, a significant milestone that enhances trust, 
accountability, and comparability for all stakeholders.
We believe ESG is not just about compliance—it is about 
coherence. It is about aligning purpose with performance, and 
ambition with accountability.
A compelling testament to the sustainability efforts of Fortis 
Healthcare is seen in the multiple awards that we have received 
in FY 2024-25:
•	
In February 2025, Fortis Hospital Mohali bagged the 
National Energy Leader Award &National Excellence in 
Energy Management, instituted by the Confederation of 
Indian Industry (CII)
•	
In March 2025, Fortis Hospital Anandpur, Kolkata 
was awarded the prestigious CAHOCON Environment 
Sustainability Award, 2025 - a national honor recognising 
exemplary practices in promoting sustainability within 
healthcare facilities by Consortium of Accredited 
Healthcare Organisation (CAHO). Fortis Anandpur won 
this award in the east region award category.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
141
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
Looking Ahead: ESG as a Practice of Becoming
Sustainability is not a destination—it is a discipline of continuous becoming. At Fortis Healthcare, we envision ESG not as a static 
checklist, but as a living, evolving commitment to excellence. As we look ahead, we remain guided by a philosophy of “ever better”—
refining our energy practices, deepening our social equity lens, and advancing governance as an act of stewardship.
We aspire to move beyond efficiency into empathy, from metrics to meaning, and from compliance to conscious capitalism. Our 
vendor partners are not ancillary actors, but fellow travelers—co-authors of a shared ESG journey. Together, we are reimagining what 
it means to heal: not just the individual, but the institution, the industry, and the ecosystem.
The detailed outcomes of our FY 2024–25 performance across Business Responsibility & Sustainability parameters are outlined in the 
report that follows. We extend our gratitude to every individual, team, and partner who has made this journey purposeful—and who 
walks with us towards a healthier, more harmonious future.
I. 	
Details of the listed entity
I-1. 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the listed entity 
L85110PB1996PLC045933
I-2. 
Name of the listed entity 
Fortis Healthcare Limited
I-3. 
Year of incorporation
1996
I-4. 
Registered office address 
Fortis Hospital, Sector 62, Phase VIII, Mohali-160062, Punjab
I-5. 
Corporate address
Tower A, 3rd Floor, Unitech Business Park, South City-1, 
Gurugram, Haryana- 120001
I-6. 
E-mail
secretarial@fortishealthcare.com
I-7. 
Telephone
+91-124 4921021 
I-8. 
Website
www.fortishealthcare.com
I-9. 
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-2025
I-10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed 
BSE Limited; National Stock Exchange of India Limited
I-11. Paid-up Capital
 ` 7,549,581,480
I-12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report.
Ms. Richa Debgupta- Chief of Strategy,  
Group Head- ESG & Business Head - Jaipur, Kolkata 
Email- secretarial@fortishealthcare.com  
Telephone- +91-124 4921021
I-13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together).
The disclosures are made on a consolidated basis for the entity 
Fortis Healthcare Limited excluding Agilus diagnostics Limited.
I-14. Name of assurance provider
SGS India Private Limited
I-15. Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable assurance
II. 	
Products/services
	
II-16.	
Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Hospital and Medical Care
Hospital activities
100
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
142
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
	
II-17.	
Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1
Hospital and Medical Care
861
100
III.	
Operations
	
III-18.	
Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated: 
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
0
27
27
International
0
0
	
	
	
Remarks: Total 22 hospitals, 4 network hospitals and 1 corporate office. 
	
III-19.	
Markets served by the entity: a. Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
8
International (No. of Countries)
0
	
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
	
The Company has national presence and serves around 8 states across the nation. The Company does not export & 
thus there is no contribution of exports to the turnover of the entity. The patients, however, include Indian citizens as 
well as citizens of foreign nationalities, who visit our hospitals in India for availing healthcare services.
	
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
	
As the company along with its subsidiaries are operating in the healthcare industry (Hospital & Diagnostics), the type 
of consumers are largely patients availing healthcare services.
IV.	
Employees
	
IV-20. 	
Details as at the end of Financial Year
	
	
a. 	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
No
Particulars
Total(A)
Male
Female
No(B)
%(B/A)
No(C)
%(C/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)
12,237
5,414
44.24%
6,823
55.76%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
14,324
8,599
60.03%
5,725
39.97%
3
Total employees (D + E)
26,561
14,013
52.76%
12,548
47.24%
Workers
1
Permanent (F)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
2
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
3
Total Workers (F + G)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
143
	
	
b. 	 Differently abled Employees and workers:
No
Particulars
Total(A)
Male
Female
No(B)
%(B/A)
No(C)
%(C/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
13
8
61.54%
5
38.46%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
3
2
66.67%
1
33.33%
3
Total differently abled 
employees (D + E)
16
10
62.50%
6
37.50%
Differently Abled Workers
1
Permanent (F)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
2
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
3
Total Workers (F + G)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
	
IV-21.	
Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No(B)
%(B/A)
Board of Directors
11
2
18.18%
Key Management Personnel
3
0
0.00%
	
	
	
Remarks: MD &CEO is counted as a Board Member and KMP both.
	
IV-22.	
Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers. (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-2023
(Turnover rate in current FY)
(Turnover rate in previous FY)
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
20.18%
28.45%
24.81%
30.17%
44.82%
38.53%
31.16%
45.05%
39.24%
Permanent 
Workers
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
V. 	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
	
V-23.	
(a) 	 Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures.
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/
associate companies/joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether 
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1
IHH Healthcare Berhad
Ultimate Holding
NA
No
2
Integrated Healthcare Holdings Limited
Intermediate Holding 
Company
NA
No
3
Parkway Pantai Limited
Intermediate Holding 
Company
NA
No
4
Northern TK Venture Private Limited
Holding Company
NA
No
5
Fortis Hospotel Limited
Subsidiary Company
74.35
Yes
6
Adayu Mindfulness Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
No
7
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
Yes
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
144
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/
associate companies/joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether 
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
8
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
Subsidiary Company
89.2
No
9
Fortis Healthcare International Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
No
10
Fortis Hospitals Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
Yes
11
Escorts Heart Institute and Research 
Centre Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
Yes
12
Fortis CSR Foundation
Subsidiary Company
100
No
13
International Hospital Limited
Subsidiary Company
78.4
Yes
14
Fortis Health Management Limited
Subsidiary Company
52
Yes
15
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality 
Hospital Limited Escorts Heart Institute 
and Research Centre
Indirect Subsidiary 
Company
48.58
Yes
16
Fortis Cancer Care Limited 
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
17
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
18
Fortis Health Management (East) Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
19
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
20
Birdie & Birdie Realtors Private Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
21
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private 
Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
22
Fortis Global Healthcare (Mauritius) 
Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
23
Fortis Emergency Services Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
24
Malar Stars Medicare Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
25
RHT Health Trust Manager Pte Ltd
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
26
Fortis HealthStaff Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
27
Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
28
Mena Healthcare Investment Company 
Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
29
Medical Management Company Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
30
Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
31
Agilus Diagnostics FZ- LLC
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
145
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/
associate companies/joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether 
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
32
Agilus Pathlabs Reach Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
33
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
34
DDRC Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
35
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private Limited
Step down subsidiary 
Company
No direct 
holding
No
Remarks: The shareholding disclosed from serial no.5 to 15 are direct holding held by the Company, whereas rest of 
the shareholding in step down subsidiary Company is held through fellow subsidiaries.
VI.	 CSR Details
	
VI-24.	
Provide the following CSR details
	
	
	
i) 	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 - Yes
	
	
	
ii) 	
Turnover (in `) - ` 65,28,02,75,878
	
	
	
iii) 	 Net worth (in `) - ` 91,69,39,03,735
	
Remarks: Turnover depicts revenue from hospital operations only. Net worth includes Agilus entities additionally.
VII. 	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
	
VII-25. 	
Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) (If 
Yes, then provide 
web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
0
0
0
0
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes
0
0
0
0
Shareholders
Yes
0
0
0
0
Employees and 
workers
Yes – through 
Fortis HRMS 
system
14
0
14
0
Customers
Yes
0
0
0
0
Value Chain 
partners
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other (please 
specify)
-
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
146
	
VII-26.	
Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. Please indicate material responsible 
business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a 
risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate 
the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of 
risk, approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Business Ethics 
& Regulatory 
Compliance
Risk + 
Opportunity
Highly Regulated Sector: 
Healthcare is subject to stringent 
regulations (some of these 
include Clinical Establishments 
Act, Biomedical Waste Rules, 
PCPNDT Act, NABH standards 
etc.) Non-compliance can 
lead to license suspensions, 
legal penalties, or reputational 
damage. Ethical Sensitivities: 
Ethical lapses—such as 
overcharging, unnecessary 
procedures, patient data misuse, 
or opaque billing—can not only 
impact the trust of patients, but 
also provoke media backlash or 
litigation, all of which directly 
impact revenues and brand value.
Strict adherence 
to compliance 
measures
Negative for 
Risk, Positive for 
Opportunity
2
Quality of 
Care & Patient 
Satisfaction
Opportunity
Opportunity to increase goodwill 
and Net Promoter Score by 
maintaining high level of care 
quality and patient satisfaction
Not applicable
Positive
3
Waste 
Management
Risk
Medical waste, if not properly 
disposed, can pose hazard to the 
environment.
Approach to 
mitigate - as per 
defined protocols 
by pollution 
control boards
Negative
4
Pricing 
and Billing 
Transparency
Opportunity
Opportunity to attain competitive 
advantage & sustained public 
trust
Not applicable
Positive
5
ESG Risk 
Management
Risk
Risk Management
Deploying pro-
active initiatives 
to mitigate ESG 
risks
Positive
6
Energy 
Management & 
GHG Emissions
Opportunity
Opportunity to attain operational 
efficiency, competitive advantage 
& positive impact on the 
environment
Not applicable
Positive
7
Innovation, 
Digitisation & 
Data Security
Opportunity + 
Risk
Opportunity to attain operational 
efficiency and competitive 
advantage
Deploy 
mechanisms to 
ensure zero data 
breaches
Positive + Negative
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
147
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of 
risk, approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
8
Workforce 
Health & Safety
Risk
Risk of injury and lost work hours 
leading to lesser productivity. Risk 
to life of workforce
Strict adherence 
to workplace 
health and safety 
measures
Negative
9
Water 
Management
Risk
Multiple Fortis units operate 
in areas of water stress. Low 
availability of water can put 
hospital operations at risk, will 
also lead to negative impact on 
environment and quality of public 
life
Optimisation of 
per occupied 
bed water 
consumption
Negative
10
Employee 
Recruitment, 
Development & 
Retention
Opportunity
Opportunity to be an employer 
of choice, increased workforce 
morale and productivity
Not applicable
Positive
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
148
SECTION B- MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Policy and management processes
Disclosure 
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1. a. Whether your 
entity’s policy/
policies cover 
each principle 
and its core 
elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/
No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
1. b. Has the policy 
been approved 
by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
1. c. Web Link of the 
Policies, if available
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-data/
investors/Code-
of-Conduct.pdf 
https://www.for-
tishealthcare.com/
drupal-data/inves-
tors/0.19530300_ 
1468569988_ 
Sustainability-Pol-
icy.pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-da-
ta/investors/
PolicyforPreven-
tionProhibitionan-
dRedressalofSexu-
alHarassment.pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-da-
ta/investors/
Corporate%2B-
Social%2BRe-
sponsibility%2B-
Policy%2B2022.
pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-data/
investors/Code-of-
Conduct.pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/dru-
pal-data/inves-
tors/0.19530300_ 
1468569988_ 
Sustainability- 
Policy.pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-data/
investors/Policy% 
2Bon%2B 
Related%2B 
Party%2B 
Transactions.pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-da-
ta/investors/
Corporate%2B-
Social%2BRe-
sponsibility%2B-
Policy%2B2022.
pdf
https://www.
fortishealthcare.
com/drupal-
data/2023-12/
Whistle%20
Blower%20Policy.
pdf
2. Whether the entity 
has 
translated 
the 
policy 
into 
procedures. 
(Yes/
No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3. Do the enlisted 
policies extend to 
your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
No
No
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
Yes
4. Name of the 
national and 
international codes/
certifications/labels/
standards (e.g. 
Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) standards 
(e.g. SA 8000, 
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your 
entity and mapped 
to each principle.
JCI, NABH
JCI, NABH
JCI, NABH
JCI, NABH
JCI, NABH
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
149
5. Specific 
commitments, goals 
and targets set 
by the entity with 
defined timelines, 
if any.
Fortis Healthcare has undertaken its initial double materiality evaluation in the latest reporting cycle (FY 24-25). As a result of this 
evaluation, Fortis has committed itself to continued, industry leading performance in the following key material issues:
1. Business Ethics & Regulatory Compliance
2. Quality of Care & Patient Satisfaction
3. Waste Management
4. Pricing and Billing Transparency
5. ESG Risk Management
6. Energy Management & GHG Emissions
7. Innovation, Digitisation & Data Security
8. Workforce Health & Safety
9. Water Management
10. Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention
Environmental Commitments
A.1. Plastic Waste Reduction
Fortis Healthcare seeks to progressively transition away from single-use plastic water bottles across high-footfall units. As a first step, we are 
committed to initiate the installation of RO-based in-house bottling plants at select hospitals in FY 25-26, with the broader vision of cultivating 
a culture of circular plastic use across the network.
A.2. Water Recycling
Recognising water as a shared and finite resource, Fortis aspires to enhance circular water practices. We intend to maximise the reuse of treated 
wastewater from STPs across our hospitals—primarily for gardening, flushing, and HVAC cooling in FY 25-26—while continually improving 
related infrastructure and processes.
A.3. Compostable Waste Handling
Fortis is committed to advancing responsible waste segregation by increasingly adopting compostable plastic garbage bags for non-hazardous 
general waste across its hospitals. In next 2 years, we aim to make this a standard practice across 100% of our hospitals, aligning with evolving 
best practices in sustainable hospital waste management. 
Social Commitments
B.1. Patient Safety Excellence
Fortis Healthcare remains steadfast in its commitment to upholding patient safety as a non-negotiable principle. We aim to continue enhancing 
our clinical protocols, training, and monitoring frameworks in pursuit of a zero-harm environment that prioritises trust, dignity, and care 
outcomes.
B.2. Community Health & Skilling
We aim to deepen our role as a catalyst for equitable healthcare by expanding access to preventive care and health education. Through 
partnerships and outreach, we aspire to empower underserved communities and future health professionals via apprenticeship and digital 
upskilling initiatives in FY 25-26.
Governance Commitments
C.1. Cybersecurity & Data Integrity
We are committed to upholding the highest standards of patient confidentiality and digital trust. Our goal is to maintain robust cybersecurity 
practices across our IT infrastructure, with a continued aspiration toward maintaining zero data breaches in FY 2025-26, through proactive 
governance, vigilance, and system strengthening.
6. Performance of 
the entity against 
the specific 
commitments, 
goals and targets 
along-with reasons 
in case the same are 
not met.
On track
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
150
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure)
Mentioned on the opening page of this report
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi - Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.
There is no specified committee of the Board/director responsible 
for decision making on sustainability related issues. However, the 
Company has a separate ESG department which is headed by 
Chief of Strategy & Operations, & Group Head ESG.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company: Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/Committee of 
the Board/Any other Committee
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review 
was undertaken by Director/
Committee of the Board/Any 
other Committee
Frequency  
(Annually/Half yearly/Quarterly/Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against 
above policies and 
follow up action
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Compliance 
with statutory 
requirements of 
relevance to the 
principles, and, 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Annually
Remarks: The review of NGRBC principles was undertaken by Corporate ESG team of Fortis Healthcare.
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
Sr. 
no
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1
SGS India Private Limited has issued reasonable assurance to BRSR Core Data, against the 9 NGRBC principles.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is No i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not 
consider the Principles 
material to its business 
(Yes/No)
Not applicable
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
151
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity is not at a 
stage where it is in a 
position to formulate 
and implement the 
policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
Not applicable
The entity does not have 
the financial or/human 
and technical resources 
available for the task 
(Yes/No)
Not applicable
It is planned to be done 
in the next financial year 
(Yes/No)
Not applicable
Any other reason  
(please specify)
Not applicable
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year
Segment
Total number 
of training 
and awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the training and its 
impact
Percentage 
of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of 
directors
4
Changes in SEBI (Listing Obligations & disclosure 
requirements) regulations, 2015, Companies Act, 2013 
& all other applicable sector specific laws.The topics 
are meant to apprise the BoD of the latest regulatory 
developments, so that they can help guide Fortis 
Healthcare's top management accordingly.
100.00%
Key Managerial 
personnel
2
ESG Workshop for Fortis EC Members. POSH Workshop  
-  Statutory and Sensitisation Updates
100.00%
Employees 
other than BoD 
and KMPs
25,965
-  Servicing with the heart program for all employees 
-  How to explain procedures to patients effectively
-  Communicating care for Nursing 
-  Patients care program 
-  How to effectively communicate with Patients for 
Resident doctors 
-  Supervisory skill program for Nursing Leaders 
-  How to respond effectively to competing Tasks 
-  Winning Together Program for all Employees 
-  Advanced MS Excel Program for all employees 
-  MIT Sloan School of Management: Leadership in an 
Exponentially Changing World 
100.00%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
152
Segment
Total number 
of training 
and awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the training and its 
impact
Percentage 
of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
-  Corporate Innovation: Strategies for Leveraging 
Ecosystems
-  A strategic approach to talent management 
-  Innovating in Health Care Leadership in an Exponentially 
Changing World 
-  Introduction to Online Education & Course Planning
-  Antimicrobial Stewardship: Improving Clinical Outcomes 
By Optimisation of Antibiotic Practices
-  Optimising Antimicrobial Therapy with Timeouts
-  Supply Chain Management Tools and Techniques Data
-  Visualisation and Building Dashboards with Excel and 
Cognos 
-  Emergency Code Management 
-  Standard Precaution Handling of Blood and body fluid 
exposure 
-  HAZMAT (Hazardous Material) 
-  BMW (Bio Medical Waste)/PPE (Personal Protective 
Equipment)/Hand Hygiene Biomedical Equipment
-  Safety Cleaning of infected rooms & handling of infected 
linen 
-  Fire Safety Mock Drills 
-  Critical Care  
-  Nursing 
-  Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) 
Module
-  Prevention of sexual harassment module 
-  Information security awareness module 
-  Anti Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy 
-  Mental Wellbeing Program series for all employees 
-  Financial Wellbeing program series for all employees
These trainings have upskilled the employees, leading to 
an improvement in their day to day performance.
Workers
-
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
153
EI-2.		
Details of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by 
the entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial 
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on 
the entity’s website):
	
	
Monetary
Category
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Amount (In `)
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
-
-
-
-
-
Settlement
-
-
-
-
-
Compounding fee
-
-
-
-
-
	
	
Remarks: No fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity 
or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year under review.
	
	
Non-Monetary
Category 
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/enforcement 
agencies/judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
-
-
Punishment
-
-
	
	
Remarks: No fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or 
by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year under review.
EI-3. 	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
S. 
No.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
1
-
-
	
	
Remarks: Not applicable
EI-4.		
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy 
	
	
Yes. The Company including its subsidiaries has zero-tolerance against bribery and corruption. It is committed to conduct 
its business with integrity; promote values of integrity, transparency, accountability and good corporate governance; 
strengthening internal systems that support corruption prevention and complying with laws relating to fighting corruption. 
The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (‘ABAC Policy’) has been formulated to set out standards of integrity and 
behavior that is required of the Company, its directors, employees and third parties. ABAC Policy prescribes that no 
financial and/or other inducements are offered or accepted by or on behalf of the Company, its directors and employees. 
It is also to encourage them to be vigilant, to act with integrity and report against any individual(s) involved in bribery 
and corruption. The policy may be referred to https://www.fortishealthcare.com/investor/policies%20&%20code/anti-
bribery%20&%20corruption%20policy 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
154
EI-5. 	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
Category
(Current  
Financial Year)
(Previous  
Financial Year)
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Remarks: None
EI-6. 	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Category
Number (CY)
Remarks (CY)
Number (PY)
Remarks (PY)
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
0
0
0
0
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
0
0
0
0
Remarks: None
EI-7.		
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
	
No such corrective action taken by regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and 
conflicts of interest.
EI-8. 	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365)/Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
Particulars
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
Number of days of accounts payables
62.8
62.23
EI-9.		
Open-ness of business - Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, 
and related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.  Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
0.00%
0.00%
b.  Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
c.  Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
0.00%
0.00%
Concentration of 
Sales
a.  Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales
0.00%
0.00%
b.  Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are 
made
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
c.  Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers/distributors
0.00%
0.00%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
155
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Share of RPTs in
a.  Purchases (Purchases with related parties/Total 
Purchases)
0.00%
0.00%
b.  Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)
0.15%
0.07%
c.  Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties/Total loans & advances)
0.00%
0.00%
d.  Investments ( Investments in related parties/Total 
Investments made)
0.00%
0.00%
Remarks: 
1. 	
We are not procuring from Export houses (Trading Houses) 
2. 	
The row regarding concentration of sales is not applicable. The Company is engaged in the business of providing 
healthcare services and deals with patients which are its primary customers. 
3. 	
Above % are calculated based on the transactions made during the years mentioned as column headers. 
4. 	
‘Sales to related parties’ above refers to revenue from operations.
Leadership Indicators
LI-1.		
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
S. 
No.
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under 
the training
% of value chain partners covered (by 
value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programmes
1
 1
BRSR Core Disclosures for Value 
Chain Partners, Training on ESG 
practices survey for top vendors of 
Fortis Healthcare
 34.61%
LI-2.		
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same. 
	
	
Yes, the Company secures a Declaration of Conflict of Interest from its Senior Management Personnel (SMPs) and Board 
of Directors on an Annual Basis. The data so collated is then shared with Accounts department for tagging into the 
Accounting system to track/monitor any actual/potential Related/Interested Party Transaction.
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
Particulars
Current 
Financial Year
Previous 
Financial Year
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
100%
100%
As part of its commitment to advancing medical science and patient 
care, Fortis Healthcare is actively involved in a wide range of biomedical 
research initiatives. These projects span across industry-sponsored 
clinical trials, academic research, and investigator-led studies. As of the 
current reporting period, the total number of ongoing projects stands 
at 279, demonstrating the institution’s significant role in India’s clinical 
research ecosystem.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
156
Particulars
Current 
Financial Year
Previous 
Financial Year
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
1.	
Industry-Sponsored Clinical Trials – 107 Projects
	
These trials are conducted in collaboration with global and national 
pharmaceutical companies and Contract Research Organisations 
(CROs). They follow international regulatory standards and 
contribute to the development of innovative therapies and medical 
devices.
	
•	
91 Ongoing Trials:
	
	
These 
include 
interventional 
studies 
across 
multiple 
therapeutic areas such as Cardiology, Oncology, Neurology, 
Gastroenterology, 
Pulmonology, 
Nephrology, 
and 
Rheumatology. The trials are in various stages of execution—
from patient recruitment and data collection to interim 
analysis.
	
•	
16 Projects Nearing Closure:
	
	
These studies are in the final stages, involving database 
finalisation, final monitoring visits, closure meetings, and 
regulatory documentation submission. They reflect successful 
execution and near-completion in line with global clinical 
research standards.
	
These industry collaborations enhance Fortis’s ability to provide 
patients with access to the latest treatment options while 
maintaining strict adherence to ethical and scientific guidelines.
2. 	
Academic Research, DNB Scholar Projects & Investigator-
Initiated Studies (IIS) – 172 Projects
	
Fortis Healthcare actively promotes academic research and 
capacity-building through strong integration with its academic 
programs and institutional research culture.
	
•	
Academic Research Projects:
	
	
These 
include 
dissertation 
and 
thesis-based 
studies 
undertaken by postgraduate medical trainees (DNB/FNB 
scholars) under the guidance of experienced faculty. 
	
•	
Investigator-Initiated Studies (IIS):
	
	
These are conceptualised and led by Fortis investigators based 
on real-world clinical challenges, patient care innovations, or 
exploratory hypotheses. 
	
•	
Collaborative and Multicenter Studies:
	
	
A portion of the academic research also involves multicenter 
participation, conducted in partnership with academic 
institutions and regulatory bodies. These studies support 
knowledge generation in emerging fields and public health.
This strong portfolio of 279 biomedical research projects reinforces 
Fortis Healthcare’s vision of integrating clinical excellence with 
scientific innovation, while fostering a culture of evidence-based 
medicine and medical education.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
157
Particulars
Current 
Financial Year
Previous 
Financial Year
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
3. 	
Therapeutic Areas Covered in Industry-Sponsored Research
	
Fortis Healthcare is actively involved in a wide range of industry-
sponsored clinical trials across multiple high-impact therapeutic 
areas. The current distribution of ongoing studies is as follows:
	
•	
Cardiology (40 studies):
	
	
Focus areas include Coronary Artery Disease, Atrial 
Fibrillation, Cardiac Implantable Devices, Aortic and Mitral 
Valve Replacement therapies, among others.
	
•	
Oncology (15 studies):
	
	
Research encompasses Lung Cancer, Prostate Cancer, Ovarian 
Cancer, Brain Tumors, Multiple Myeloma, and Bone Marrow 
Transplantation.
	
•	
Gastroenterology (15 studies):
	
	
Includes studies on Crohn’s Disease, Ulcerative Colitis, and 
both Alcoholic and Non-Alcoholic Liver Diseases.
	
•	
Neurology (10 studies):
	
	
Research areas include Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson’s Disease, 
and Ischemic Stroke.
	
•	
Pulmonology (10 studies):
	
	
Focused on Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary 
Disease (COPD).
	
•	
Nephrology (9 studies):
	
	
Covering Chronic Kidney Disease and related disorders.
	
•	
Rheumatology and Others (8 studies):
	
	
Includes studies on Systemic Sclerosis and Scleroderma.
Additional research projects are underway in emerging and 
cross-disciplinary areas based on evolving healthcare needs 
and sponsor interest.
Capex
100%
100%
As the Company operates in healthcare sector, the entirety of R&D 
(clinical trials) and Capex (medical equipment purchased), improve the 
social impact of products & processes, reducing the disease burden of 
the society
EI-2.	a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes
EI-2.	b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 
	
	
Our endeavor has always been to employ the services of vendors who are equally committed to sustainability. However, 
due to the nature of the sector we operate in, some materials are also sourced from local vendors, MSMEs etc., who are 
still on the path of formalising sustainability practices. Sustainably sourced inputs percentage has not been quantified.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
158
EI-3.		
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life for the following: 
Category
Description
(a)  Plastics (including 
packaging)
As per Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the amendments 
thereafter, all Bio-Medical Waste from the Healthcare Facility is handed over to the State 
Pollution Control Board authorised Operator of the common Bio-Medical Waste Treatment 
Facility for collection, reception, storage, transport, treatment and disposal. We do not reuse or 
recycle any Bio-Medical Waste, but accordingly handover all waste from each of our Hospitals 
to the State Pollution Control Board authorised Operator of the common Bio-Medical Waste 
Treatment Facility for final disposal. We have a Standard Operating Procedure based on the Bio-
Medical Waste Management Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the amendments thereafter, 
for Segregation at source, collection, handling transport within the Hospitals, Pre-treatment 
where needed & temporary storage in a common area before handing over to State Pollution 
Control Board authorised Operator of the common Bio-Medical Waste Treatment Facility. The 
staff Health Check-ups, Vaccination, Training etc. are done as per the requirements of the Bio-
Medical Waste Handling Rules. The SOP compliance is tracked on a monthly basis. 
(b)  E-waste
All E waste is handed over to pollution control board authorised vendors only.
(c)  Hazardous waste
As per Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the amendments 
thereafter, all Bio-Medical Waste from the Healthcare Facility is handed over to the State 
Pollution Control Board authorised Operator of the common Bio-Medical Waste Treatment 
Facility for collection, reception, storage, transport, treatment and disposal. We do not reuse or 
recycle any Bio-Medical Waste, but accordingly handover all waste from each of our Hospitals 
to the State Pollution Control Board authorised Operator of the common Bio-Medical Waste 
Treatment Facility for final disposal. We have a Standard Operating Procedure based on the Bio-
Medical Waste Management Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the amendments thereafter, 
for Segregation at source, collection, handling transport within the Hospitals, Pre-treatment 
where needed & temporary storage in a common area before handing over to State Pollution 
Control Board authorised Operator of the common Bio-Medical Waste Treatment Facility. The 
staff Health Check-ups, Vaccination, Training etc are done as per the requirements of the Bio-
Medical Waste Handling Rules. The SOP compliance is tracked on a monthly basis.
(d)  Other waste
-
EI-4.		
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.  
	
	
Due to nature of healthcare business, Extended Producer Responsibility is not applicable to the entity’s activities. We follow 
the guidelines notified by CPCB, MOEF and CC for Biomedical waste and Electronic scrap.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
159
Leadership Indicators
LI-2.		
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other 
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
S. 
No.
Name of Product/Service
Description of the risk/concern
Action Taken
1
Bio medical waste 
generation
Risk for the environment 
and human beings as this a 
contaminated waste generated 
during the hospital operations.
We handover the Biomedical waste to state 
Govt pollution board approved vendor, as per 
the Bio medical waste management guidelines 
2016.
LI-3. 	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
S. 
No.
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to 
total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
1
NA
NA
NA
	
	
Remarks: Owing to strict infection control measures and the very nature of medical and healthcare services sector, reused 
or recycled input material is not included in providing chargeable services to our patients. However, we ensure that recycled 
water is used for auxiliary services like horticulture.
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
EI-1.a. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity  
benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
5,414
5,414
100.00%
5,414
100.00%
0
0.00%
5,414
100.00%
0
0.00%
Female
6,823
6,823
100.00%
6,823
100.00%
6823
100.00%
0
0.00%
6,823
100.00%
Total
12,237
12,237
100.00%
12,237
100.00%
6823
100.00%
5,414
100.00%
6,823
55.76%
Other than permanent Employees
Male
8,599
2,196
25.54%
2,196
25.54%
0
0.00%
2,196
25.54%
0
0.00%
Female
5,725
2,177
38.03%
2,177
38.03%
2177
38.03%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
14,324
4,373
30.53%
4,373
30.53%
2177
38.03%
2,196
25.54%
0
0.00%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
160
EI-1.	b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers. 
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Other than permanent Workers
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
EI-1.	c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format:
Particulars
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the Company
0.595%
0.596%
EI-2. 	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees. 
(CY)
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers. 
(CY)
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.). 
(CY)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees. 
(PY)
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers. 
(PY)
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.). 
(PY)
PF
100%
0.00%
Y
100%
0.00%
Y
Gratuity
100%
0.00%
NA
100%
0.00%
NA
ESI
100%
0.00%
Y
100%
0%
Y
Others – please specify
Remarks: All employees eligible for ESI benefits (with monthly gross salary less than 21,000) are covered.
EI-3.		
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard.
	
	
- Yes, the premises/offices of the entity are accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the requirements 
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016
EI-4.		
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy. 
	
	
- Yes. Our recruitment policies do not restrict any person from getting hired due to his/her disabilities, which will be directly 
linked to the ability of the candidate to perform the required tasks.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
161
EI-5.		
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.00%
74.71%
- 
- 
Female
100.00%
68.29%
- 
-
Total
100.00%
71.56%
- 
- 
EI-6. 	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Category
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Not Applicable, as we do not have workers
Other than Permanent Workers
Not Applicable, as we do not have workers
Permanent Employees
Yes- we have policies and SOPs in place to receive and redress grievances for our 
employees such as Code of conduct, consequence management, Whistle blower 
policy, POSH Committee and local grievance handling process.
Other than Permanent Employees
Yes- we have policies and SOPs in place to receive and redress grievances for our 
employees such as Code of conduct, consequence management, Whistle blower 
policy, POSH Committee and local grievance handling process
EI-7.		
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
%  
(B/A)
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No.of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s)
or Union (D)
%  
(D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
12,237
17
0.14%
12,088
19
0.16%
Male
5,414
14
0.26%
5,295
17
0.32%
Female
6,823
3
0.04%
6,793
2
0.03%
Total Permanent 
Workers
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
162
EI-8. 	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No.  
(B)
%  
(B/A) 
No.  
(C)
%  
(C/A)
No.  
(E)
%  
(E/D)
No.  
(F)
%  
(F/D)
Employees
Male
5,410
4,737
88%
4126
76%
5,295
3,809
72%
4,448
80%
Female
6,821
6,225
91%
5830
85%
6,793
5,263
77%
5,638
85%
Total
12,231
10,962
89.6%
9956
81%
12,088
9,072
75.0%
10,086
83%
Workers
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Remarks: 	1. 	
Training date mentioned above is as of March 31st, 2025.
	
	
2.	
Training data mentioned above is for regular employees of Fortis Healthcare only
EI-9. 	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
5,414
5,414
100%
5,295
5,295
100%
Female
6,823
6,823
100%
6,793
6,793
100%
Total
12,237
12,237
100%
12,088
12,088
100%
Workers
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
Total
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
EI-10.a. 	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/
No). If yes, the coverage such system? 
- Yes. OHSA trainings are provided to all employees. Reporting of serious and non-serious injuries is non-negotiable with 
detailed incident reporting.
EI-10.b. 	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity? 
- Our hospitals are NABH accredited and follow the procedures and practices laid down by NABH on work-related hazards.
EI-10.c. 	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Y/N) 
	
	
- Not Applicable
EI-10.d. 	 Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/
No) - 
	
	
Yes
EI-11. 	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
163
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
70
45
Workers
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
High consequencework-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Number of Permanent Disabilities
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
EI-12. 	
Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place. 
- Following measures have been taken by the Company to ensure a safe healthy work place: 
a. 	
Awareness workshop specific to key areas of fire, chemical, infections, machine handling, and public handling 
b. 	
Food and Water audits
c. 	
High cleaning standards of public areas and toilets 
d. 	
Mental wellness workshops and helplines 
e. 	
Preventive Vaccination against key infections 
f. 	
Annual medical health check-up 
g. 	
Compulsory annual leave
EI-13. 	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
 0
 0
0
 0
 0
0
Health & Safety
 0
 0
0
 0
 0
0
EI-14.	
Assessments for the year:
Category
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
 100%
Working Conditions
100%
EI-15. 	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions. 
	
	
- No such concerns reported, hence there is no corrective action being undertaken.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
164
Leadership Indicators
LI-1. 	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N). 
	
	
- Yes. All employees are covered under group personal accident and life insurance policies.
LI-2. 	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners. 
	
	
- Payments to the vendors are dependent on the submission of proof of statutory dues and compliance. This is verified by 
a third-party auditor, and compliance certificates are issued based on the documents submitted by the vendors.
LI-3. 	
Provide the number of employees or workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury/ill-health/
fatalities (as reported in EI-11 above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment. 
Total no. of affected employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Workers
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
LI-4. 	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No) 
- Yes, we provide, depending upon opportunities within and outside Fortis Network.
LI-5. 	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Category
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
or third parties)
Health and safety practices
34.61% (Top vendors of Fortis Healthcare with whom more than 0.3% of total 
procurement was done individually in last financial year, by business value)
Working Conditions
34.61% (Top vendors of Fortis Healthcare with whom more than 0.3% of total 
procurement was done individually in last financial year, by business value)
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
Every entity, person or organisation which features in the regular day to day running of a medical facility is a stakeholder to 
us. Our common stakeholders include, but are not limited to: patients, clinicians, nurses, paramedics, hospital administrator, 
clinical assistants, outsourced vendors, suppliers, payers as well as our shareholders, financial institutions, government 
agencies, regulatory bodies, nongovernment organisations and employees. We provide medical services to patients and all 
others associated with our hospitals help in fulfillment of the services.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
165
EI-2. 	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
S. 
No.
Stakeholder Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, 
Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/
Half yearly/
Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
1
Shareholders/
Investors 
No
Emails, calls, investor 
meets etc.
Quarterly 
Quarterly engagement with 
investors is scheduled to 
brief the investors on the 
quarterly performance of the 
Company after the results 
are declared for each quarter.
2
Patients
Yes, vulnerable 
due to health 
related issues 
In-person interactions, 
Email, Website, calls SMS
Daily
Feedback on service 
improvements
3
Suppliers and 
Vendors
No
Email, Website, calls, 
SMS, industry promotion 
conference 
Daily
Sourcing of quality supplies
4
Government 
Agencies/Monitoring 
Agencies 
No
Webinars, Seminars, 
Industry promotion 
conferences, ESG Summit
Others- as and 
when organised
Knowledge dissemination, 
skill building 
Leadership Indicators
LI-1. 	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. 
	
	
- Feedback and concerns, if any, from stakeholder groups are discussed and resolved in the periodic review meeting 
between key management personnel, heads of hospitals and functional vertical heads. Summary and critical information 
from such consultations are presented in board meetings. Changes in policies are implemented after approval from Board.
LI-2. 	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. 
	
	
- Yes. For instance, our key managerial personnel have undergone training on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging 
(DEIB) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) as per our training need identification mechanism.
LI-3. 	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalised stakeholder groups. 
	
	
- Most of our patients are vulnerable due to their health-related issues. There is process & system in our hospitals through 
which patients and their attendants share their feedback or raise concerns, if any, about our services. 
	
	
To address the concern of vulnerability due to health-related issues, we have specific processes which include the following: 
	
a) 	
All wash-rooms have grab bars installed in them. 
	
b) 	
All wash-rooms have either anti-skid flooring or antiskid mats. 
	
c) 	
Education is provided to the patient as well as the attendants regarding fall protection. 
	
d) 	
Bed-side railings are required to be up at all times unless required otherwise. 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
166
	
e) 	
No patient is to be left unattended.
	
f) 	
Nursing call bells have been installed next to the patient beds
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of employees/
workers covered (B)
% 
(B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees/
workers covered (D)
% 
(D/C)
Employees
Permanent
12,237
12,237
100%
12,088
12,088
100%
Other than 
permanent
14,324
14,324
100%
11,255
11,255
100%
Total Employees
26,561
26,561
100%
23,343
23,343
100%
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Other than 
permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total Employees
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Remarks: Human rights in the workplace are covered in our training strategy programs. Our code of conduct and other 
governance policies are based on human rights. All these trainings are compulsory at the time of joining and are refreshed 
from time to time.
EI-2. 	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
No.  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
No.  
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No.  
(E)
%  
(E/D)
No.  
(F)
%  
(F/D)
Employees
Permanent
12,237
0
0.00%
12,237
100.00%
12088
0
0.00%
12,088
100.00%
Male
5,414
0
0.00%
5,414
100.00%
5295
0
0.00%
5,295
100.00%
Female
6,823
0
0.00%
6,823
100.00%
6793
0
0.00%
6,793
100.00%
Other than 
Permanent
14,324
0
0.00%
14,324
100.00%
11225
0
0.00%
11,255
100.00%
Male
8,599
0
0.00%
8,599
100.00%
7381
0
0.00%
7,381
100.00%
Female
5,725
0
0.00%
5,725
100.00%
3844
0
0.00%
3,844
100.00%
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
167
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
No.  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
No.  
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No.  
(E)
%  
(E/D)
No.  
(F)
%  
(F/D)
Other than 
Permanent
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Male
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Female
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Remarks: Permanent employees are paid as per industry standards. The lower threshold of payment to outsourced 
employees is minimum wage, as applicable in the location of work.
EI-3. a.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format: Median remuneration/wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/
salary/wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/
salary/wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
9
14,00,000
2
99,00,000
Key Managerial Personnel
3
58188120
0
0
Employees other than BoD and KMP
5414
462672
6823
369384
Workers
0
0
0
0
Remarks: The salary paid details, for employees other than BoD and KMP are for permanent employees only.
*includes commission paid to independent directors. Details of Sitting fee as paid to the Directors are included in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
EI-3. b. 	 Provide information on Gross wages paid to females by the entity, in the following format:
Particulars
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
43.13%
44.48%
EI-4. 	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
- Yes
EI-5. 	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. 
- Code of conduct, consequence management, Whistleblower policy, POSH Committee and local grievance handling 
process.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
168
EI-6. 	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
14
0
-
14
0
-
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights related issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
EI-7. 	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
Particulars
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
14
14
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/workers
0.12%
0.13%
Complaints on POSH upheld
10
14
EI-8. 	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. 
	
	
- Whistle blower policy, POSH Committee, Grievance handling committee.
EI-9. 	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) 
	
	
- Yes
EI-10. 	
Assessments for the year:
Category
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
100%
Sexual harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
100%
Others – please specify
EI-11. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 10 above.
No such concerns reported, hence there is no corrective action being undertaken.
Leadership Indicators
LI-1. 	
Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints. - 
	
	
None
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
169
LI-3. 	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
- Yes
LI-4. 	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Category
% of value chain partners (by value of business 
done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual harassment
34.61%
Discrimination at workplace
34.61%
Child labour
34.61%
Forced/involuntary labour
34.61%
Wages
34.61%
Others – please specify
Remarks: This represents the top vendors of Fortis Healthcare with whom more than 0.3% of total procurement was done 
individually in last financial year, by business value.
LI-5.  	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from 
the assessments at LI-4 above.
None
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Details of total energy consumption in GigaJoules (GJ), in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
40,795.13
39,919.23
Total fuel consumption (B)
0.00
0.00
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0.00
0.00
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
40795.15
39,919.23
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
2,58,626.80
2,58,073.38
Total fuel consumption (E)
44,955.11
38,337.50
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
3,03,581.83
2,96,410.88
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
3,44,376.98
3,36,330.11
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/turnover 
in rupees)
0.53 GJ/Lakh
0.59 GJ/Lakh
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total energy consumed/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
108.99 GJ/Million 
USD
122.21 GJ/Million 
USD
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
0.34 GJ/Number of 
Occupied Bed Days
0.35 GJ/Number of 
Occupied Bed Days
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
170
	
	
Remarks: 
	
	
1. 	
All energy data is mentioned in Gigajoules.
	
	
2. 	
Over the course of last two financial years, we have taken several initiatives within our units to strengthen our data 
collection process. We are tracking our energy consumption on a monthly basis, as well as have developed processes 
to improve the accuracy of our reporting. 
	
	
3. 	
For PPP adjustment, the conversion factors have been taken from the International Monetary Fund. The link for the 
same can be found here: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDCF 
EI-1.		
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance for energy has been conducted by an external 
agency. If Yes, provide the name of the agency: 
	
	
Yes, SGS India Private Limited
EI-2. 	
Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action 
taken, if any. 
	
	
- No, not applicable 
EI-3. 	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
10,438.50
0.00
(ii)	
Groundwater
7,98,122.00
6,89,717.00
(iii)	 Third party water
4,12,055.00
3,83,046.00
(iv)	 Seawater/desalinated water
0.00
0.00
(v)	
Others
0.00
0.00
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
12,20,615.50
10,72,763
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
9,04,916.14
5,85,936.00
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/turnover)
1.39 KL/Lakh
1.03 KL/Lakh
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total water consumption/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
286.58 KL/Million 
USD
212.9 KL/Million 
USD
Water intensity in terms of physical output
0.88 KL/Number of 
Occupied Bed Days
0.61 KL/Number of 
Occupied Bed Days
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity. 
KL/of 
-
-
Remarks: The consumption numbers have been re-stated for FY 23-24 due to the utilisation of a better methodology as 
recommended by the Industry Standards. The consumption has been calculated according to the Central Groundwater 
Authority document on ‘Estimation of water requirement for drinking and domestic use’. Accordingly, the discharge values 
have also been updated. 
In addition, our consumption has increased in 2024-25 due to more accurate reporting, as several units have installed water 
meters. Additional consumption represents the difference between CGWA guiding document and actual measurement 
on-site using water flow meters. 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
171
EI-3. 	
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. -
Yes . SGS India Private Limited 
EI-4. 	
Provide the following details related to water discharged: Water discharge by destination and level of treatment 
(in kilolitres)
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
To Surface water
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
(ii) 	 To Groundwater
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
(iii) 	 To Seawater
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
3,17,104.03 
Secondary level of 
treatment
4,86,827.00 
Secondary level of 
treatment
(v)	
Others
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
3,17,104.03
4,86,827.00
Remarks: The consumption numbers have been changed for FY 23-24 due to the utilisation of a better methodology as 
recommended by the Industry Standards. The consumption has been calculated according to the Central Groundwater 
Authority document on ‘Estimation of water requirement for drinking and domestic use’. Accordingly, the discharge values 
have also been updated. In addition, our consumption has increased in 2024-25 due to more accurate reporting, as several 
units have installed water meters.
EI-4. 	
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. -
Yes . SGS India Private Limited 
EI-5. 	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation. 
- We have STP and ETP plants as per the guidelines of Central Pollution Control Board and the capacity of the hospital. 
We are doing wastewater treatment for further utilisation in gardening, road cleaning, cooling tower system and flushing 
systems.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
172
EI-6. 	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Please specify unit
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
NOx
μg/m3
24.13
33.7
Sox
μg/m3
12.96
19.29
Particulate matter (PM)
μg/m3
87.72
83.9
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
Others – please specify in the remark section
EI-6.		
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance for Air emissions has been conducted by an 
external agency. If Yes, provide the name of the agency:- 
	
	
No
EI-7. 	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) in MTCO2e, in the following format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
TCO2e
4599.54
4850.90
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
TCO2e
52,228.25
51,327.93
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover
TCO2e/rupee of 
turnover
0.09 TCO2/Lakh
0.10 TCO2e/Lakh
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
TCO2e/rupee of 
turnover
17.98 TCO2e/Million 
USD
20.41 TCO2e/ 
Million USD
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in 
terms of physical output 
TCO2e/rupee of 
turnover
0.06 TCO2e/
Number of 
Occupied Bed 
Days
0.06 TCO2e/
Number of 
Occupied Bed Days
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
TCO2e/of
-
EI-7. 	
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance for GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) has been 
conducted by an external agency. If Yes, provide the name of the agency: -
Yes. SGS India Private Limited 
EI-8. 	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details. 
- We are purchasing renewable electricity from outsourced vendors for a majority of our category A hospitals. There are 
two categories of renewable energy that Fortis hospitals are utilising, totaling to annual utilisation of 1,41,06,823 kWh 
units, across all Fortis hospitals including network hospitals. This corresponds to 13.94% (up from 12.26% in FY 23-24) of 
total electricity consumed by all Fortis units including network hospitals. 
Fortis Hospital Mulund – Wind energy 
Fortis Hospital BG Road - Wind energy 
Fortis Hospital Mohali - Solar energy 
Fortis Hospital Ludhiana - Solar energy 
Fortis Hospital Jaipur - Solar energy 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
173
Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram - Solar energy 
Fortis Vasant Kunj- Solar energy 
Fortis Escorts Hospital, Faridabad - Solar Energy
EI-9 		
Provide details related to waste management by the entity for the Current Financial Year:’
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0.00
0.00
E-waste(B)
25.40
13.18
Bio-medical waste (C)
2016.77
1,886.40
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0.00
0.00
Battery waste (E)
41.98
59.91
Radioactive waste (F)
0.21
0.34
Other Hazardous waste.Please specify, if any. (G)
3.78
2.49
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.(Break-up 
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
1,903.51
1,628.00
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
3,991.78
3,590.32
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total Waste Generated/
Revenue from operations)
0.0061 MT/Lakh
0.0063 MT/Lakh
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total Waste Generated/Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
1.2633 MT/Million 
USD
1.3046 MT/Million 
USD
Waste intensity in terms of physical output 
0.0039 MT/
Number of 
Occupied Bed 
Days
0.0037 MT/
Number of 
Occupied Bed 
Days
Waste intensity (optional) the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste - Plastic
(i)	
Recycled
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Plastic Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery operationsotal
0
0
Category of waste - E-Waste
(i)	
Recycled
25.40
13.18
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total E-Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery operations
25.4
13.18
Category of waste - Bio-medical waste
(i)	
Recycled
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Bio-medical Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery 
operations
0
0
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
174
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Category of waste - Construction and demolition waste
(i)	
Recycled
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Construction Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery 
operations
0
 0
Category of waste - Battery waste
(i)	
Recycled
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Battery Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery operations
0
0
Category of waste - Radioactive waste
(i)	
Recycled
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Radioactive Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery 
operations
0
 0
Category of waste - Other Hazardous waste
(i)	
Recycled
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Other Hazardous Waste Recycled, Re-used and other recovery 
operations
0
0
Category of waste - Other Non-Hazardous waste
(i)	
Recycled
1,903.51
1,628.00
(ii)	
Re-used
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0.00
0.00
Total Other Non-hazardous Waste Recycled, Re-used and other 
recovery operations
1,903.51
1,628.00
Total
1,928.91
1,641.18
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature 
of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste - Plastic
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
0.00
0.00
Total Plastic Waste Incineration, Landfilling and other disposal 
operations
0
0
Category of waste - E-Waste
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
0.00
0.00
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
175
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total E-waste Waste Incineration, Landfilling and other disposal 
operations
0
0
Category of waste - Bio-medical Waste
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
2,016.77
1,886.40
Total Bio-medical Waste Incineration, Landfilling and other disposal 
operations
2,016.77
1,886.4
Category of waste - Construction and demolition waste
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
0.00
0.00
Total Construction Waste Incineration, Landfilling and other disposal 
operations
0
0
Category of waste - Battery
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
41.98
59.91
Total Battery Waste Incineration, Landfilling and Other disposal 
operations
41.98
59.91
Category of waste - Radioactive
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
0.21
0.34
Total Radioactive Waste Incineration, Landfilling and Other disposal 
operations
0.208
0.34
Category of waste - Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
3.78
2.49
Total Other Hazardous Waste Incineration, Landfilling and Other 
disposal operations
3.78
2.49
Category of waste - Other Non-hazardous waste generated
(i)	
Incineration
0.00
0.00
(ii)	
Landfilling
0.00
0.00
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
0.00
0.00
Total Other Non-hazardous Waste Incineration, Landfilling and Other 
disposal operations
0.00
0.00
Total
2,062.74
1,949.14
Remarks: 
1. 	
As per the Biomedical Waste management guidelines, 2016, issued by the Govt. of India, the red category of Bio 
medical waste is infected plastic waste. Because the same is to be already mentioned under Bio Medical waste (C) 
- all categories combined is 2,016.77 MT, in order to avoid double counting, plastic waste (A) has been shown as 0 
above. Actual plastic waste (Red category of Bio Medical Waste) is 1,028.54 MT. 
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
176
2. 	
Over the course of last two financial years, we have taken several initiatives within our units to strengthen our data 
collection process. We are tracking waste generation data on a monthly basis, as well as have developed processes to 
improve the accuracy of our reporting. The other hazardous waste category’s reporting has been expanded to include 
used oil. 
3. 	
For PPP adjustment, the conversion factors have been taken from the International Monetary Fund. The link for the 
same can be found here: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDCF
EI-9. 	
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance for Waste has been conducted by an external 
agency. If Yes, provide the name of the agency:  
- Yes. SGS India Private Limited 
EI-10. 	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes. 
- Most of our hospitals being NABH/JCI accredited/certified, follow stringent quality norms while handling Bio-Medical 
waste. The staff is regularly trained on the same & compliance audited regularly. Annually we report the Bio Medical waste 
generated to the Pollution Control Board & also publish the same on our website. As per Bio-Medical Waste Management 
Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the amendments thereafter, all Bio-Medical waste from is handed over to State 
Pollution Control Board authorised operator for collection, reception, storage, transport, treatment and disposal. We have 
a Standard Operating Procedure based on the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the 
amendments thereafter, for segregation at source, collection, handling transport within the hospitals, pre-treatment where 
needed & temporary storage in a common area before handing over to State Pollution Control Board authorised operator. 
The staff are trained to segregate the waste at the point of generation, so that there is no mixing of waste. The Bio-Medical 
Waste practices are audited every month in the hospitals & compliances
EI-11. 	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance 
are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
1
-
-
-
EI-12. 	
Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
S. 
No.
Name and 
brief details of 
project
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web 
link
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
177
EI-13. 	
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format:
S. 
No.
Specify the law/regulation/
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the non-
compliance
Any fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective 
action taken, 
if any
1
Each unit has the local pollution 
board's consent to operate 
compliance certificates.
Leadership Indicators
LI-1. 	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
	
(i) 	 Name of the area
	
	
	
Hospital name with location
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Kalyan, Maharashtra
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital B G Road Bengaluru, Karnataka
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital C G Road Bengaluru, Karnataka
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Rajaji Nagar Bengaluru, Karnataka
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Nagarbhavi Road Bengaluru, Karnataka
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Ludhiana I Punjab
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Ludhiana II Punjab
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Amritsar Punjab
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Jaipur Rajasthan
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Okhla Delhi
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Noida UP
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital Faridabad Gurugram, Haryana
	
	
	
Fortis Hospital La Femme GK Delhi
	
	
	
Fortis Memorial Research Institute Gurugram, Haryana
	
	
	
Fortis Cancer Institute Defence Colony Delhi
	
	
(ii) 	 Nature of operations
	
	
	
Usage in Hospital for regular activity.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
178
	
	
(iii). 	Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres) for the current year: 
Water withdrawal, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
Surface water
0
0
(ii)	
Groundwater
4,81,017
4,32,514
(iii)	 Third party water
2,27,246
2,09,240
(iv)	 Seawater/desalinated water
0
0
(v) Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal(in kilolitres)
7,08,263
6,41,754
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
5,60,723.60
3,56,987.00
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/turnover)
0.8589 KL/Lakh
0.6278 KL/Lakh
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity. 
KL/of
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
Into Surface water
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
(ii) 	 Into Groundwater
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
(iii) 	 Into Seawater
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
1,47,539.40
CY:Secondary 
level of treatment
2,84,766.50
PY:Secondary level 
of treatment
(v)	
Others
	
- No treatment
0.00
0.00
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0.00
0.00
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
1,47,539.40
2,84,766.50
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
179
LI-1. 	
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
	
- Yes. SGS India Private Limited
LI-4. 	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Optimisation of per 
occupied bed energy 
consumption
- In the last two financial years, we have meticulously 
monitored energy consumption per occupied bed 
across all Fortis healthcare facilities on a monthly 
basis. - Based on the monitoring data, we conducted 
in-depth benchmarking across all units. This process 
resulted in the identification of 19 distinct initiatives 
designed to optimise energy consumption. - Unit-
Specific Improvement Opportunities: Each unit 
was then benchmarked against the 19 identified 
initiatives. This analysis allowed us to pinpoint specific 
areas for improvement within each facility, ensuring 
a targeted and effective approach - The focused 
initiatives for energy consumption optimisation 
included the following: Energy consumption 
optimisation:
1.	
Installation of Variable Frequency Distributors 
(VFD) to Air handling units (AHU), cooling 
towers and Heating, Ventilation and Air 
Conditioning (HVAC) pumping systems
2.	
Replacement of old cast iron type cooling 
towers fans with Epoxy material 
3.	
Replacement of energy-inefficient pumps with 
energy efficient ones 
4.	
Replacement of old chillers with new energy 
efficient chillers with VFD system
5.	
Replacement of old CFL with LED lights
6.	
Installed IoT based technology for HVAC system
7.	
Installed the timers and motion sensors for 
lighting system 
Measurable results have translated 
to a reduction in per occupied bed 
energy by 6.53% on a consolidated 
level in FY 2024-25, and additional 
3.4% in FY 2023-24. This reduction 
was achieved despite increase 
in the overall bed occupancy (at 
consolidated reporting level) in FY 
23-24 Beyond financial benefits 
to the organisation– the energy 
thus saved has added back to the 
environmental bounty that the Indian 
society enjoys at large.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
180
Sr. 
No.
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
2
Optimisation of per 
occupied bed water 
consumption
- In the last two financial years, Per occupied bed 
water consumption was meticulously monitored for 
each unit over the year - This granular data allows 
us to identify the most and least water-efficient units 
and sharing of best practices across the organisation. 
- Focused initiatives to reduce water consumption 
included the following:
1.	
Installation of water flow meters
2.	
Installation of foam water aerators for basin 
taps 
3.	
used treated Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) 
water for flushing, cooling towers and 
gardening purposes 
4.	
Used RO reject water for flushing and kitchen 
cleaning purposes 
5.	
Replaced old water flushing system with new 
technology – ensuring leakage repairing of 
Commode flushing system in patient rooms/
public toilets to control direct flow 
Water flow meters have been 
installed at 90 input and output 
points across multiple Fortis hospitals 
– thus providing a data driven 
baseline for further optimisation of 
water usage across hospitals.
LI-5. 	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? If yes, please give details in 100 
words or input web link. 
- Yes. A standardised security SOP ‘Hospital Evacuation’ (centrally prepared as a guiding document) is shared with all 
the Fortis hospitals. Based on this document, all the Fortis Hospitals have prepared their own unit specific evacuation 
plan mentioning the response during different man-made & natural disasters to ensure the preparedness and business 
continuity. Mock drills are conducted once in a quarter to check efficacy of the plan on ground. A safety training calendar 
is prepared & followed by all the hospitals covering scenarios for natural disasters, eg. earthquakes, floods, storm etc. 
and man-made disasters, eg fire, bomb threat, terrorist attack etc. Additionally, all the Fortis Hospitals have a tie up 
with a minimum of two hospitals in the near vicinity to ensure assistance in shifting & treatment of the patients during a 
disastrous situation.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
EI-1.a. 	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations. 
4 (Four)
EI-1.b. 	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
181
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/
associations (State/National)
1
Federation of Indian chambers of Commerce & Industry
National 
2
NATHEALTH
National 
3
Confederation of Indian Industry
National 
4
Associations of Healthcare Providers
National 
5
0
0
6
0
0
7
0
0
8
0
0
9
0
0
10
0
0
EI-2. 	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
S. 
No.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
1
-
-
-
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
S. 
No.
Name and 
brief details 
of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes/
No)
Relevant 
Web link
1
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
EI-2.		
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid 
to PAFs in the 
Financial Year (In `)
1
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
EI-3.		
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
	
- For complaints received through social media, our corporate marketing team monitors the social media and complaints, if 
any, are shared with the hospital’s patient experience head for early resolution and closure. There is a feedback/complaint 
option available on the Fortis website which can be filled and submitted. One can also write to feedback@fortishealthcare.
com. This feedback is deposited in the PDMS (patient delight and management system) and specific hospital’s Patient 
Experience team acts on these complaints. All complaints are tracked for satisfactory closure. Otherwise for any general 
query, one can reach us on reachus@fortishealthcare.com
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
182
EI-4. 	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Category
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers
37.93%
34.0%
Sourced directly from within India
98.76%
96.1%
EI-5.		
Job creation in smaller towns- Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage 
cost. (Place to be categorised as per RBI Classification System - rural/semi-urban/urban/metropolitan)
Location
Current  
Financial Year
Previous  
Financial Year
Rural
0.00%
0.00%
Semi-urban
0.00%
0.00%
Urban
20.17%
20.03%
Metropolitan
79.83%
79.97%
Leadership Indicators
LI-2. 	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
S. 
No.
State
Aspirational 
District
Amount spent 
(In `)
1
Andhra Pradesh
Visakhapatnam
₹ 1,77,350
2
Assam
Dhubri
₹ 68,900
3
Chhattisgarh
Korba
₹ 1,00,000
4
Jammu & Kashmir
Baramulla
₹ 1,00,000
5
Jharkhand
Bokaro
₹ 71,956
6
Jharkhand
Giridih
₹ 89,600
7
Jharkhand
Hazaribag
₹ 85,000
8
Maharashtra
Osmanabad
₹ 67,250
9
Maharashtra
Gadchiroli
₹ 1,00,000
10
Maharashtra
Washim
₹ 90,300
11
Odisha
Balangir
₹ 1,23,588
12
Odisha
Kalahandi
₹ 1,00,000
13
Rajasthan
Baran
₹ 93,000
14
Uttarakhand
Udham Singh Nagar
₹ 93,600
Total
₹ 13,60,544
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
183
LI-6. 	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefitted from CSR 
Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalised groups
1
Ambulance donation
1,13,000 (lifetime of the 
ambulance)
100%
2
Smart HWC & Cancer Screenings
6,291
100%
3
PHC upgradation
21,00,000 (estimated basis 
population served)
100%
4
Digital Health Training
92
0%
5
Whole School Transformation
12,036
100%
6
Scholarships to MBBS students
194
100%
7
Apprenticeship Program
1,585
100%
8
IIT Madras Brain Research
NA
NA
Total
22,33,198
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
EI-1. 	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. 
- Every day post discharge or a visit to the hospital, we send a feedback message with a link on WhatsApp to the patients, 
through which patients fill the feedback form and can give us a detailed feedback of their experience. This feedback gets 
submitted in our patient feedback management application which is monitored and managed by the patient experience 
team. 
All patient complaints and suggestions are assigned to the concerned department and these are closed with RCA and 
CAPA by the concerned department stakeholders. There is an escalation matrix in place where complaints get escalated 
within the unit and corporate office, in case the complaints are not closed timely. We have a dedicated patient feedback 
management system to capture, monitor and manage patient feedback. Any complaint submitted by a patient in the 
feedback generates a review ticket to the concerned department head, for resolution and closure. Department head has 
to perform root cause analysis (RCA) and CAPA (Corrective and Preventive Action) for all the complaints which is further 
approved by the Function head. 
If ticket is not closed timely by the department head, it gets escalated to further levels within the unit and corporate office 
as per the defined escalation matrix. Patient complaints are analyzed monthly to identify most common and repeated 
issues, for service and process improvement. We have also displayed complaint escalation posters in patient care areas 
and waiting areas at all our hospitals. We have defined 3 levels for raising a complaint and escalation in these posters. 
Our patients can also share their feedback and complaints on the Fortis Healthcare website and email through a dedicated 
feedback form and email ID. Overall patient satisfaction is measured through Net Promoter Score (NPS). NPS is captured 
and monitored regularly, and is discussed in the monthly unit business review meetings and also presented in the GOC. 
NPS variance is used to design training interventions, thus completing the feedback loop.
EI-2. 	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about: 
Category
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
 NA
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
184
Category
As a percentage to total turnover
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%
Remarks: As per Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules 2016, read in conjunction with the amendments thereafter, 100% 
Bio-Medical Waste from the Healthcare Facility is handed over to the State Pollution Control Board authorised operator 
for collection, reception, storage, transport, treatment and disposal. Being a healthcare services provider, almost all of the 
products utilised by us for medical consumption is sourced from reputed manufacturers which screen their products for 
safe usage and promote safe disposal.
EI-3. 	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
0
0
Complaint 
categories 
mentioned 
below
0
0
Complaint 
categories 
mentioned 
below
Advertising
0
0
0
0
Cyber-security
0
0
0
0
Delivery of essential 
services
2157
0
3120
0
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
0
0
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
0
0
Other
0
0
0
0
Remarks: Following complaint categories have been considered from Inpatient department patients, related to Doctors & 
Nurses regarding clinical care - to arrive at the complaint data for ‘Delivery of essential services’:
1.	
Timely Response to call bell & needs
2.	
Being professional
3.	
Inadequate response for care needs
4.	
Delayed response to call bell
5.	
Care related concerns
6.	
Doctor did not visit
7.	
Delay in medication administration
8.	
Delayed response
9.	
No response to call bell
10.	 Concern with cannula insertion
11.	 Explanation of diagnosis & line of treatment
12.	 Improper medication administration
13.	 Promptness in assessment & care by doctor/nurse
14.	 Concern with blood sampling
15.	 Concern with injection administration
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
185
EI-4. 	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issue
Category
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
Not applicable
Forced recalls
0
Not applicable
EI-5. 	
Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy. 
- Yes. We have a robust Information Security policy in place for providing overall Information security governance framework 
for the organisation in managing different aspects related to Information security. To support that Information security 
incident management policy is also place covers cyber security framework, web link is intranet and presently accessible to 
IT function. Link for data privacy https://www.fortishealthcare.com/privacy-policy
EI-6. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to any of the following: i. 
Advertising; ii. Delivery of essential services; iii. Cyber security and data privacy of customers; iv. Re-occurrence 
of instances of product recalls V. penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
-	
Advertising: Responsible advertising practices to ensure no misleading claims are made
-	
Delivery of essential services: Timely resolution with the concerned medical/non-medical team
-	
Cyber security: Deployment of robust information technology systems to ensure zero data breaches
-	
Product Recalls: Not applicable
-	
Penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services: None
EI-7. 	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a. 	
Number of instances of data breaches - 0
b. 	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers - 0%
c. 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches - None
Leadership Indicators
LI-1. 	
Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
Website: www.fortishealhcare.com 
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/fortishealth 
Twitter (X): https://x.com/fortis_hospital 
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCn0ShMNqXI3kQP-Eoaf7olg 
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/fortis.healthcare
LI-2. 	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. 
- At the time of hospital admission, Patient and their attendants are counseled and all relevant information about the 
treatment is provided to them. Similarly, we inform patient about discharge medication and precautions they must follow 
to ensure faster and safe recovery. During handing over of medicines in Pharmacy, our pharmacists educate patient about 
correct process and timings of taking the medicines.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
186
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (Contd.)
LI-3. 	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services 
- In case of disruption or discontinuation, patients are informed through posters displayed in reception and patient areas 
within hospitals. In case of any advance booking, the call center calls the Patient on their registered phone number 
explaining the situation and offering alternative options, if available. Such information is also displayed on website and 
social media channels of Fortis.
LI-4. 	
Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/
services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) 
- Yes. Overall patient satisfaction is measured through Net Promoter Score (NPS). NPS is captured and monitored regularly, 
and is discussed in the monthly unit business review meetings and also presented in the GOC. NPS variance is used to 
design training interventions, thus completing the feedback loop.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
187
Page no.1 
 
 
 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
 
Independent Assurance Statement to Fortis Healthcare Limited on its Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report (BRSR) for the FY 2024-25 
 
The Board of Directors, 
Fortis Healthcare Limited , 
Tower A, Unitech Business Park,  
Block - F, South City 1, Sector - 41,  
Gurgaon, Haryana – 122001 
Nature of the Assurance 
SGS India Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as ‘SGS India’) was engaged by Fortis Healthcare Limited (the ‘Company’ or 
‘Fortis) to conduct an independent assurance of the Company’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) (the 
‘Report’) pertaining to the reporting period of April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. SGS India has conducted a Reasonable level of 
Assurance for BRSR core parameters. This assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with “International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410. 
Reporting Framework 
The Report has been prepared following the 
1) 
BRSR Core–Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures for value chain (SEBI vide Circular No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122) dated July 12, 2023 
2) 
BRSR reporting guidelines (Annexure II) as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 
2021, and incorporated Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023 and as amended 
from time to time . 
3) 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard 
Intended Users of this Assurance Statement  
This Assurance Statement is provided with the intention of informing all Fortis Healthcare Limited’s Stakeholders.  
Responsibilities 
The information in the report and its presentation are the responsibility of the management of the Company. SGS India has not 
been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the report. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, and statements within the defined scope of assurance, aiming to 
inform the management of the Company, and in alignment with the agreed terms of reference. We do not accept or assume any 
responsibility beyond this specific scope. The Statement shall not be used for interpreting the overall performance of the Company, 
except for the aspects explicitly mentioned within the scope. 
Assurance Standard 
SGS has conducted an engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 
3000(revised) and ISAE 3410 (Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information). Our 
evidence-gathering procedures were designed to obtain a ‘Reasonable’ level of assurance, which is a high level of assurance in 
accordance with ISAE 3000(revised) standard but is not absolute certainty. It involves obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to 
support the conclusion that the information presented in the report is fairly stated and is free from material misstatements. 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
188
Page no.2 
 
 
 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
Statement of Independence and Competence 
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and assurance, operating in more than 140 countries and 
providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and 
training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS affirm our independence from Fortis Healthcare Limited, 
being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.  
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised 
auditors registered with ISO 26000, ISO 20121, ISO 50001, SA8000, RBA, QMS, EMS, SMS, GPMS, CFP, WFP, GHG 
Verification and GHG Validation Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA Assurance. 
Scope of Assurance 
The assurance process involved assessing the quality, accuracy, and reliability of BRSR Indicators (KPIs) within the report for the 
period April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. The reporting scope and boundaries include 21 Hospitals and Head Office spread across 
different states in India. 
Assurance Methodology 
The assurance comprised a combination of desktop review, interaction with the key personnel engaged in the process of 
developing the report, on-site visits, and remote verification of data. Specifically, SGS India undertook the following activities: 
 
• 
Assessment of the suitability of the applicable criteria in terms of its comprehensiveness, reliability, and accuracy. 
• 
Interaction with key personnel responsible for collecting, consolidating, and calculating the BRSR core KPIs and 
assessing the internal control mechanisms in place to ensure data quality. 
• 
Application of analytical procedures and verification of documents on a sample basis for the compilation and reporting 
of the KPIs.  
• 
Assessing the aggregation process of data at the Head Office level.  
• 
Critical review of the report regarding the plausibility and consistency of qualitative and quantitative information related 
to the KPIS. 
Limitations 
The assurance scope excludes: 
• 
Disclosures other than those mentioned in the assurance scope. 
• 
Data review outside the operational sites as mentioned in the reporting boundary. 
• 
Validation of any data and information other than those presented in “Findings and Conclusion.” 
• 
The assurance engagement considers an uncertainty of ±5% based on the materiality threshold for Assumption/ 
estimation/measurement errors and omissions. 
• 
The Company’s statements that describe the expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim to future 
intention provided by the Company, and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights and other competitive issues. 
• 
Strategy and other related linkages expressed in the Report. 
• 
Mapping of the Report with reporting frameworks other than those mentioned in the Reporting Criteria above. 
SGS India verified data on a sample basis; the responsibility for the authenticity of the data entirely lies with the Company. The 
assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- or service-related information, external information sources and 
expert opinions. SGS India has not been involved in the evaluation or assessment of any financial data/performance of the 
company. Our opinion on financial indicators is based on the third-party audited financial reports of the Company. SGS India does 
not take any responsibility for the financial data reported in the audited financial reports of the Company. 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
189
Page no.3 
 
 
 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
Findings and Conclusions 
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, we are satisfied that the information presented 
by the Company in its report, on the Core Indicators (as per Annexure A) is complete, accurate, reliable, has been fairly stated in 
all material respects, and is prepared in line with the BRSR requirements.  
 
For and on behalf of SGS India Private Limited 
     
 
 
 
Ashwini K. Mavinkurve, 
Technical reviewer 
Head – ESG & Sustainability Services, SGS India  
Pune, India  
26th June,2025 
 
Abhijit M. Joshi   
Lead Verifier – ESG & Sustainability Services, SGS 
India  
Pune, India  
 
Team Members: Muskan Jain, Blessy Sen, Harishanker 
Tiwari, Namrata Kamble, Dheeraj Sindhe 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
190
Page no.4 
 
 
 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
Annexure A 
The list of BRSR Indicators that were verified within this assurance engagement is given below: 
S.No. 
BRSR Core Attributes 
BRSR Core Indicators 
1 
  Greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint  
 Total Scope 1 emissions  
 Total Scope 2 emissions  
 GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2) 
2 
Water footprint  
 Total water Extraction 
 Total water consumption 
 Water consumption intensity 
 Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment 
3 
Energy footprint  
 Total energy consumed  
 % of energy consumed from renewable sources 
  Energy intensity 
4 
Embracing circularity  
 Plastic waste  
 E-waste  
 Bio-Medical Waste 
 Construction and Demolition waste 
 Battery waste  
 Radioactive Waste  
 Other hazardous waste  
 Other non-hazardous waste  
 Total waste generated  
 Waste intensity 
 Total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations  
 Total waste disposed by nature of disposal method  
5 
Employee well-being and safety  
 Spending on measures towards well-being of employees as a % of 
total revenue from operations of the Company 
 Details of safety related incidents for employees 
6 
Enabling gender diversity in business  
 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid 
 Complaints on POSH  
7 
Enabling inclusive development 
 Input material sourced from MSMEs/ small producers as % of total 
purchases directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers and directly 
from within India 
 Job creation in smaller towns - Wages paid to persons employed in 
smaller towns as % of total wage cost 
8 
Fairness in engaging with customers and 
suppliers  
 Instances involving loss/breach of data of customers as a percentage 
of total data breaches or cyber security events  
 Number of days of accounts payable 
9 
Open-ness of business 
 Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses, 
dealers, and related parties  
 Loans and advances & investments with related parties 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
191
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
192
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (2024-25)
SECTION I
Indian Healthcare Sector
A. 	 Overview 
	
The Indian healthcare sector has been a key contributor to 
the country’s economic development, driving substantial 
growth in both revenue and employment. The industry 
plays a pivotal role in the nation’s economic framework, 
contributing significantly to growth and employment 
across diverse sectors, including hospitals, medical 
devices, clinical trials, telemedicine, medical tourism, 
health insurance, and medical equipment.
 
1960
India’s Population, Billion
0.45
0.70
0.87
CAGR:1.9%
CAGR: 0.8%
1.06
1.24
1.32
1.40
1.51
1980
1990
2000
2010
2015
2020
2030 (P)
Source : Crisil
	
India has a population of over 1.4 Billion, which leads to 
unique challenges in providing accessible and affordable 
healthcare to its citizens. However, these challenges 
also present significant opportunities for innovation and 
growth within the industry. Rising income levels, an 
aging population, increasing health awareness, and a 
shift towards preventive healthcare are expected to drive 
higher demand for healthcare services in the future.
	
The 
healthcare 
sector 
has 
undergone 
significant 
transformations in recent years, fueled by technological 
advancements, policy reforms, and increased investments. 
This growth has been further driven by expanded 
coverage, improved service quality, and substantial 
contributions from both public and private sectors. 
Government initiatives to boost healthcare spending and 
enhance infrastructure have also played a crucial role in 
accelerating the industry’s momentum, positioning it for 
continued progress in the years ahead.
	
Despite these transformations and advancements, the 
sector faces various challenges, including disparities 
in healthcare access between urban and rural areas, 
inadequate infrastructure, and a shortage of skilled 
healthcare 
professionals. 
However, 
with 
ongoing 
efforts in innovation, collaboration, policy reforms, and 
infrastructure, the sector is well-positioned for sustained 
growth and improvement in the years ahead.
	
Looking ahead, the continued advancement of medical 
technology, combined with an increasing emphasis 
on preventive care and wellness programs, is expected 
to drive the growth and diversification of India’s 
healthcare industry. The sector’s resilience in overcoming 
challenges positions it well for sustained growth and 
innovation, offering promising opportunities for investors, 
stakeholders, and healthcare professionals.
B. 	 Current Landscape and Key Highlights 
	
Healthcare has become one of India’s largest sectors, 
both in terms of revenue and employment. The industry is 
growing at a tremendous pace owing to its strengthening 
coverage, service and increasing expenditure by public 
as well private players. The surge in healthcare demand 
is propelled by a blend of economic and demographic 
dynamics. 
 
	
The Indian Healthcare industry continued its healthy 
growth and the overall size of the industry is estimated 
to reach US$ 372 Billion with a CAGR of 22% (2016 – 
2022). The Indian healthcare market, which was valued 
at US$ 110 Billion in 2016 is now projected to reach US$ 
638 Billion by 2025 (Source: Niti Aayog, IBEF). India’s 
healthcare industry comprises hospitals, medical devices 
and equipment, pharmaceuticals, health insurance, 
clinical trials, telemedicine and medical tourism.
2008
India’s Healthcare Sector, USD Billion
45
60
73
CAGR:16.3%
110
160
280
372
2010
2021
2014
2016
2017
2020F
2022 F
Source: NITI Aayog
81
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
193
	
In the Union Budget for 2025-26, the government has 
allocated ` 99,859 crore for developing, maintaining, 
and improving the country’s healthcare system — a 
9.78% increase from ` 90,959 crore last year.
	
India’s healthcare sector, particularly hospitals, has 
witnessed a surge in foreign direct investment with 
inflows of $1.5 billion in FY24. This represents a 
significant increase, more than doubling hospitals’ share 
of FDI since FY21.
 	 The Indian government is expected to increase 
partnerships with private healthcare providers to improve 
access to healthcare services, particularly in rural and 
underserved areas.
	
Greater adoption of digital health solutions such as 
electronic medical records (EMRs), mobile health apps 
and remote patient monitoring systems is in focus
	
The telemedicine market is expected to reach US$ 5.4 
billion by 2025, driven by increased demand for remote 
healthcare solutions and advancements in technology.
	
As of 2024, the Indian healthcare sector is one of India’s 
largest employers as it employs a total of 7.5 million 
people. Progress in telemedicine, virtual assistants, and 
data analytics is expected to create 2.7-3.5 million new 
tech jobs.
(Source: IBEF, Times of India)
Key Highlights:
Expansion of Telemedicine Services: Telemedicine continues 
to experience significant growth, with more healthcare 
providers adopting digital platforms, a trend accelerated by the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The telemedicine market is expected to 
reach US$ 5.4 Billion by 2025. (Source: IBEF)
Advancements in Health Tech: The health-tech sector is 
poised for significant expansion, driven by advancements in 
artificial intelligence, electronic health records, wearables, and 
health monitoring devices aimed at improving patient care and 
treatment outcomes. The e-health market is expected to reach 
US$ 10.6 Billion by 2025 (Source: IBEF). The growing demand 
for innovative healthcare solutions and the integration of 
technology in medical services are fuelling the sector’s growth.
Focus on Mental Health: There is an increasing recognition of 
the importance of mental health, driving efforts to destigmatize 
mental illness, broaden access to mental health services, and 
integrate mental health care into primary healthcare systems. 
Organisations, including The Live Love Laugh Foundation and 
the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences 
(NIMHANS), aim to raise awareness and promote mental well-
being through nationwide campaigns.
Rise in Health Insurance Coverage: A growing middle-class, 
coupled with rising burden of new diseases, are boosting the 
demand for health insurance coverage. As the need for affordable 
and quality healthcare intensifies, health insurance penetration is 
expected to expand significantly in the coming years.
Expansion of Healthcare Infrastructure: Over the years the 
Indian healthcare services industry has grown and improved its 
infrastructure with state of art facilities. The construction and 
expansion of hospitals, clinics and diagnostic centers continue 
to meet the rising demand for healthcare services, particularly 
in tier 2 and tier 3 cities.
Healthcare Digitisation Initiatives: The Digital India program 
has transformed the healthcare sector in India, leading to 
significant advancements. Initiatives such as the National Digital 
Health Mission (NDHM), e-Sanjeevani, and e-Hospital have 
expanded healthcare access across the entire country.
Innovative 
Healthcare 
Delivery 
Models: 
Emerging 
healthcare delivery models, including integrated online 
healthcare platforms, home healthcare services, community 
health centers, mobile health clinics, and e-pharmacy, are 
addressing diverse healthcare needs and improving accessibility.
Medical Education Reforms: In the Union Budget for 2025–
26, Human Resources for Health and Medical Education was 
allotted ` 1,675 Crores and gave a major boost by announcing 
that 10,000 additional seats will be created in medical colleges 
and hospitals in the coming year. In 2024, the Indian government 
established 60 new medical colleges, increasing MBBS seats by 
6.3% to 1,15,812. India’s medical educational infrastructure 
has grown rapidly, driven by reforms that focus on enhancing 
the quality of healthcare professionals through curriculum 
updates, skill development programs, and promoting research 
and innovation in medical institutions. 
Public-Private 
Partnerships 
(PPPs): 
The 
collaboration 
between public and private sectors in India’s healthcare 
system has significantly strengthened, leading to substantial 
investments in healthcare infrastructure, technology adoption, 
and the implementation of various healthcare programs. 
These partnerships aim to effectively address key healthcare 
challenges across the nation.
Medical Tourism: India is rapidly becoming a leading 
destination for medical tourism, with an estimated around 7.3 
Million visitors in 2024. This growth is driven by affordable, high 
quality healthcare services and advanced medical technology. 
Indian medical tourism market was valued at US$ 7.69 Billion 
in 2024 and is expected to reach US$ 14.31 Billion by 2029. 
(Source: IBEF)
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
194
Indian healthcare delivery market poised for robust growth
The Indian healthcare delivery industry, comprising of hospitals and clinics, is expected to post a healthy growth rate of 10-12% 
CAGR between FY24 and FY28, driven by long term structural factors, strong fundamentals and increasing affordability.
C. 	 Government Policies and Key Initiatives
	
The government continues to play a crucial role in the 
sector with its focus on the creation of facilities in rural 
India for primary healthcare, ensuring the availability 
of diagnostics, funding medical insurance for the low-
income population and senior citizens through initiatives 
like Ayushman Bharat, driving the penetration of generic 
medicines via Jan Aushadhi centers, and funding research 
and development in medical technologies and diagnostics 
through various labs and the Indian Council of Medical 
Research (ICMR). These efforts are pivotal in addressing the 
healthcare challenges in India, especially amidst growing 
demands for better medical services and infrastructure.
Key Highlights:
•	
The government allocated ` 37,227 Crores to the National 
Health Mission (NHM), constituting 37% of the budget, 
Within the overall healthcare delivery market, the in-patient department is expected to account for over 70% (in value terms), while 
the balance is to be catered by the out-patient department. (Source: Crisil)
with the aim of achieving universal access to equitable, 
affordable, and quality healthcare services that are 
accountable and responsive to people’s needs.
•	
The Union Budget allocated ` 20,046 Crores for 
autonomous bodies. The allocation for All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, was increased to 
` 5,200 Crores. 
•	
Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB 
PM-JAY) got an allocation of ` 9,406 Crores. AB PM-JAY, 
the world’s largest health insurance/assurance scheme 
fully financed by the government, aims to provide health 
coverage to poor, senior citizens and vulnerable families.
•	
Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure 
Mission (PMABHIM) was allocated ` 4,200 Crores to 
strengthen India’s health infrastructure and improve the 
country’s primary, secondary and tertiary care services.
BUDGET  
FOCUS AREAS
Ecosystem for Digital Health at a National Level
Futuristic focus on medical research, 
collaborative research and R&D
Emphasis on increasing health 
insurance penetration
Enhancing Healthcare Education and 
Workforce Capacity
Emphasis on enhancing country’s 
health infrastructure
Establishing additional medical colleges
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
2.9.
FY 17
FY 22
FY 24E
FY 28P
FY 17
FY 22
FY 24E
FY 28P
5.0
CAGR: 11.5%
CAGR: 10-12%
6.3
9.4-9.8
Source : Crisil
Source : Crisil
India’s Healthcare Delivery Market, ` Trillion
India’s Healthcare Delivery Market
62%
65%
67%
69-70%
38%
Private Healthcare services
Government Healthcare services
35%
33%
30-31%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
195
•	
In 2024, the Indian government established 60 new medical colleges, increasing MBBS seats by 6.3% to 1,15,812. This 
expansion has raised the total number of medical colleges to 766, up from 387 in 2013-14. Postgraduate seats also grew by 
5.92% to 73,111.
•	
Government will facilitate setting up of Day Care Cancer Centres in all district hospitals in the upcoming years. 200 Centres will 
be established in 2025-26.
(Source: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, IBEF)
D. 	 Key Growth Drivers of the Indian Healthcare Industry
	
India’s healthcare industry is expected to sustain strong demand, driven by an ageing population, improved affordability 
facilitating access to quality medical care, government policy reforms, medical tourism and growing penetration of medical 
insurance. 
Key Growth Drivers
a.	
Government Reforms to enhance Healthcare Coverage: The focus of the government has shifted from curative aspect to 
preventive health and well-being under the ambit of holistic healthcare. This had led to increase in healthcare initiatives and 
budget allocated to the overall sector. 
b.	
Persistent Gap in Demand and Supply for Quality Healthcare Services and Infrastructure:  India currently has 1.5 
hospital beds per 1,000 people. There is also a shortage of skilled healthcare workers, with 0.7 physicians and 1.7 nursing 
personnel per 1,000 people, compared to the global median of 1.7 physicians and 3.8 nursing personnel per 1,000 people. The 
distribution of beds is highly skewed, with most healthcare infrastructure concentrated in urban areas.
	
India would need an additional 3 Million beds to achieve the target of 3 beds per 1,000 people by 2025. Also, India will have 
one doctor to every 800 patients by 2030. Furthermore, another 1.54 Million doctors and 2.4 Million nurses will be required to 
meet the growing demand for healthcare in India. (Source: Crisil, IBEF)
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
3.8
Russia
UK
US
Brazil
Malaysia
China
Thailand
Nepal
INDIA
Indonesia
6.2
3.2
2.1
2.1
2.4
3.3
0.9
0.9
3.1
3.5
0.7
0.7
1.7
1.1
9.2
5.5
3.4
3.6
12.5
Source: Crisil
Note: 2021 figure for UK, Brazil, Nepal, Indonesia 2020 figures for India, China, Russia, US; 2019 figures for 
Malaysia, Thailand; 2019 figure for world average
Physicians (per 1,000 population)
Nurses (per 1,000 population)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
196
c.	
Significant opportunity from medical tourism:  In 
2024, India’s medical tourism market was valued at US$ 
7.7 Billion and is projected to grow to US$ 14.3 Billion 
by 2029. The country is rapidly emerging as a leading 
destination, with an estimated ~7.3 Million visitors in 
2024, drawn by its affordable, high-quality healthcare 
services and advanced medical technology.
	
The Indian government has also supported the sector 
by liberalising policies, including allowing 100% foreign 
direct investment (FDI) in the AYUSH sector for wellness 
and medical tourism. India’s medical tourism industry is 
expected to have exceeded pre-pandemic levels in 2024, 
spurred by the government’s e-medical visa initiative, 
which extends to nationals from 167 countries. (Source: 
IBEF)
d.	
Increasing Health Awareness to Boost Hospitalisation 
Rate: Majority of healthcare enterprises in India are 
more concentrated in urban areas. With increasing 
urbanisation (migration of population from rural to urban 
areas), awareness among the general populace regarding 
presence and availability of healthcare services for both 
preventive and curative care is expected to increase.
e.	
Growing Health Insurance Penetration: Low health-
insurance penetration is one of the major impediments to 
the growth of the healthcare delivery industry in India, as 
affordability of quality healthcare facilities by the lower-
income groups continues to be a challenge. As per the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, nearly 
573 Million people have health insurance coverage in 
India (as of Fiscal 2024), as against 288 Million (in Fiscal 
2015), but despite this robust growth, the penetration in 
Fiscal 2023 stood at ~41%. The penetration is expected to 
increase to 45-50% by Fiscal 2026.
f.	
Demographics: During 2015-20, as per World Bank 
estimates, Elderly population (65yrs +) was the fastest 
growing population segment in India with 2.6% growth 
while overall population growth was at 1%. The elderly 
population is expected to rise the fastest, followed by 
Adult (20-65 yrs), followed by the Young (< 20yrs). As of 
2011, nearly 8% of the Indian population was of 60 years 
or more, and this is expected to surge to 12.5% by 2026 
which is likely to increase the demand for the sector in the 
coming years.
E. 	
KEY CHALLENGES
	
The healthcare industry in the country continues to 
face certain challenges which including amongst others 
are those related to increasing regulatory oversight, 
heightened competition and the availability of clinical 
talent. 
	
a. 	
Rising healthcare costs have prompted increased 
regulatory scrutiny that has and may continue to 
take shape in the form of aspects such as margin 
capping and tariff control in both the hospital and 
the diagnostics space.  These could impact service 
offerings, revenue mix and other operational 
parameters.
	
b. 	
Given the growth fundamentals of the healthcare 
delivery space, increasing interest backed by huge 
investments by private and foreign investors as also 
large Indian conglomerates have witnessed the setup 
up of a larger number of healthcare service providers 
both at regional and pan- India levels. As a result, 
increasing competitive intensity has the propensity to 
impact financial and operational performance.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
India’s urban versus rural population
Source: CRISIL
	 1960	 1970	
1980	 1990	 2000	 2010	 2015	 2020	 2030P
	82%	
80%	 77%	
74%	 72%	
69%	 67%	
65%	 60%
	18%	
20%	 23%	
26%	 28%	
31%	 33%	
35%	 40%
 Urban Population     Rural Population
 Pvt Sector  
 Public Sector  
 Standalone Health  
 Total
Exclude Personal Accident and Travel Insurance
Source: IRDA Annual Report
55.3
78.3
106.8
137.4
151.4
200.0
252.5
321.8
345.1
251.8
201.1
158.8
123.9
106.6
76.9
56.3
192.3
303.4
370.3
448.7
507.6
582.4
730.5
894.9
1,076.8
215.1
235.4
246.3
272.3
329.4
390.6
409.9
2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24
Increasing Trend in Health Insurance Premium (` Bn)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
197
Key Technology Transformation Trends
Information Technology in Healthcare: Developments in information technology have helped create systems that 
ensure faster and more reliable services. For example, Electronic Health Records are designed to manage detailed medical 
profiles and histories of patients, while Clinical Decision Support Systems are software supported by large databases to 
assist doctors in making decisions related to the diagnosis of patients. Additionally, mobile-based applications assist both 
doctors and patients.
Remote health and virtual care becoming mainstream: The rise of telemedicine has revolutionized healthcare delivery 
by allowing patients to consult with doctors remotely. This trend has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
continues to grow, offering convenience, and expanding access to healthcare, especially in rural or underserved areas.
Growth of AI/ML: Hospitals are looking at opportunities to deploy Al and advanced analytics to improve their efficiency 
and minimize human error. For example, A large hospital chain has partnered with Microsoft to create disease risk score 
application programme interface for assigning risk score to patients.
Robotics in healthcare: Robotic surgery or robot-assisted surgery have started gaining recognition and enhances 
operational efficiency by reducing human error and improving precision.
Leveraging Blockchain: Blockchain technology is being explored to enhance data security, interoperability, and patient 
privacy. By creating secure, immutable records, blockchain ensures that medical records are not tampered with and can 
be easily accessed by authorized parties, improving the accuracy and efficiency of care.
Cloud Technology and Big Data Analytics: The shift to cloud computing is enabling healthcare organizations to 
store and access massive amounts of data in real time. Big data analytics is being used to identify patterns in patient 
data, predict trends, and inform public health decisions, while cloud-based systems allow for easier collaboration across 
healthcare providers.
Wearables and sensors: With awareness on healthcare increasing, people have started adopting wearables and sensors 
that keep a track of the vitals of the user. Wearables and sensors also store data related to the user’s historical health 
records and sends out alerts in case of any irregularities.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
	
c.	
Lack of availability of clinical talent continues to be 
a critical aspect that needs to be addressed in order 
to maintain high standards of care and ensuring the 
sustainability of healthcare systems in the longer 
term.  
F. 	
Digital Transformation
	
Digital transformation in the healthcare sector is 
revolutionising the way healthcare is delivered, making it 
more efficient, accessible, and patient-centric. With the 
integration of advanced technologies and strong support 
from both government and private sector stakeholders, 
India’s 
digital 
infrastructure 
has 
seen 
significant 
improvements. This shift aims to enhance patient care, 
reduce operational costs, and improve overall healthcare 
outcomes, but it also presents challenges in terms of 
security, interoperability, and adoption. 
	
The telemedicine market is expected to reach US$ 5.4 
Billion by 2025, driven by increased demand for remote 
healthcare solutions and advancements in technology. 
The e-health market size is estimated to reach US$ 10.6 
Billion by 2025. India’s MedTech industry is experiencing 
rapid growth driven by initiatives like the PLI Scheme and 
Medical Devices Parks, attracting significant investments 
from both domestic and international players and 
positioning the country as a key player in the global 
medical device market.
	
Through the integration of advanced technologies such as 
the advent of 5G, smartphone penetration, electronic health 
records, telemedicine, artificial intelligence, robotic surgery, 
mobile based app and wearable devices, healthcare systems 
are evolving to better meet the needs of patients. These 
systems help increase reach and quality of healthcare delivery 
systems across the country and enable healthcare delivery 
providers to improve efficiency by helping them in resource 
planning, maintaining patient records, etc.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
198
G. 	 Indian Diagnostic Sector
	
The Indian diagnostics market has witnessed steady 
growth, driven by increased health awareness, rising 
chronic disease burden, and technological advancements. 
In FY’24 market size was estimated between ` 860-870 
Billion and projected to be between ` 1275-1375 Billion 
by FY28. 
FY 17
FY 23
FY 24
FY 28P
1275-1375
860-870
774
CAGR: 9-10%
CAGR: 10-12%
472
(` Billion)
Source: Crisil
The industry is primarily segmented into pathology (accounting 
for 56% of the market) and radiology (44%) (Source: Crisil). 
Pathology services include biochemical, microbiological, 
and molecular tests, while radiology encompasses imaging 
modalities such as X-rays, MRIs, and CT scans. Preventive 
diagnostics continue to gain traction, growing at a faster pace 
than curative services, as patients proactively seek wellness 
solutions. Additionally, a shift towards digitalisation and 
automation is optimising efficiency and improving patient 
experiences.
Despite significant growth, the sector faces challenges such 
as pricing pressures, regulatory compliance, and increasing 
competition from new entrants, including telehealth providers 
and online aggregators. However, these challenges also present 
opportunities for innovation, consolidation, and expansion into 
underpenetrated markets.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
Emerging Trends in the Diagnostics Sector
The 
diagnostics 
industry 
is 
undergoing 
significant 
transformations, with advancements that will redefine disease 
detection and management. Key trends shaping the sector 
include:
Evolving Clinical Needs and Diagnostic Trends
•	
Personalised Medicine: Genetic testing is enabling 
tailored treatments based on patient-specific biological 
markers.
•	
Point-of-Care Testing: Rapid diagnostics at the site 
of care allow for quicker medical decisions, enhancing 
prognosis.
•	
Early Disease Detection: Increased adoption of early 
screening methods, especially in oncology, is improving 
patient outcomes.
•	
Holistic Healthcare Approaches: Functional medicine is 
emphasising disease prevention and long-term wellness.
•	
Specialised Diagnostics: Molecular diagnostics and 
precision medicine are revolutionising targeted therapies.
Intensifying Market Competition
•	
Entry of New Players: Pharma companies, hospitals, and 
digital health firms are diversifying into diagnostics.
•	
Government Initiatives: Increased public investment 
in diagnostic infrastructure is enhancing accessibility and 
affordability.
Source: Crisil, Nuvama Research
Test Segment
56% 
Pathology
44% 
Radiology
24% 
Rural
76% Urban
Region
15% 
Wellness
85% Sickness
Test Type
43% IPD
57% OPD
IPD Vs OPD
35% Self 
Selected
10% 
Corporates
55% Referrals
Source
18% Diagnositc 
Chains
38% Hospital 
Based
Institution 
TYpe
44% 
Standalone Centres
45% Multi-regional
Chain  
Type
55% Regional Chains
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
199
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
Emergent Business Models
•	
Remote Diagnostics: Mobile labs and at-home testing 
are making healthcare more accessible.
•	
Segmented Service Delivery: A more modular approach 
to diagnostics, focusing on individual components like 
sample collection, processing, and reporting.
•	
Growth Avenues: Corporate wellness programs are 
fuelling demand for diagnostic services.
Evolving Patient Dynamics
•	
Convenience-Driven Demand: Online booking, home 
collection, and digital reports are reshaping patient 
expectations.
•	
Reliability and Trust: Patients prefer established, 
accredited providers for diagnostic services.
•	
Preventive Healthcare Focus: Increased self-testing and 
wellness evaluations are driving demand.
•	
Patient-Centric Offerings: Customisable diagnostic 
packages and wellness solutions are enhancing customer 
engagement.
Supply Chain Optimisation
•	
Enhanced Transparency: AI-driven logistics and digital 
tracking are improving efficiency and patient satisfaction.
•	
Automation & AI: Robotics and AI-enabled diagnostics are 
reducing turnaround times and improving accuracy.
Technology-Driven Growth
•	
Customer-Focused 
Digital 
Platforms: 
AI-based 
chatbots, virtual consultations, and digital health records 
are enhancing patient interactions.
•	
AI Integration: Machine learning is advancing diagnostics 
in radiology and pathology.
•	
IT 
Infrastructure 
Investment: 
Cloud-based 
data 
management and automation are streamlining operations.
These trends collectively point towards a more technology-
driven, patient-centric, and competitive diagnostic landscape.
H. 	 Future Outlook 
	
In the coming years, healthcare delivery in India is expected 
to be primarily shaped by technological advancements 
and the growing adoption of digital health solutions by 
both providers and patients. This transformation will be 
fueled by shifts in mindset, advancements in technology, 
infrastructure development, government initiatives, and 
more. Key government programs, such as the Ayushman 
Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM) and e-Sanjeevani, are laying 
the groundwork for a digitised healthcare ecosystem. At 
the same time, private sector players are exploring digital 
technologies like robotics, telehealth, AI, and 5G to offer 
technology-driven care to their patients.
	
The diagnostics sector is also set for significant growth, 
propelled by a convergence of technology, evolving market 
dynamics, and changing patient needs. By prioritising 
innovation, strategic growth, and patient-centricity, the 
diagnostics sector is poised for a transformative and 
sustainable future.
	
Expansion of Telemedicine and Digital Healthcare, 
Increased Healthcare Investment and Infrastructure 
Development, Growth of Medical Tourism, Technological 
Advancements, Increased Health Insurance Penetration 
and Collaborative Public-Private Partnerships will define 
the future of healthcare in India, one that will be marked by 
continuous innovation, strategic expansion, and a strong 
commitment to improving patient care and outcomes.
	
The hospital sector in India has become more resilient and 
strategic in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. As the 
industry continues to evolve, there has been a notable 
surge in interest from investors, private equity firms, 
corporate entities, and healthcare players, all seeking 
opportunities to invest in the sector. This growing interest 
has also led to consolidation opportunities, emphasising 
the importance of achieving scale and size to optimise 
operational efficiency and leverage. However, despite 
these promising developments, the market remains highly 
competitive, and regulatory uncertainties continue to 
pose challenges.
	
A significant gap in healthcare infrastructure in India’s Tier II 
and Tier III cities presents a substantial growth opportunity 
for private healthcare providers. Several large corporate 
hospital chains have expanded their presence in these 
cities both through organic growth and acquisitions, while 
regional and local players are also gaining traction. This 
shift towards expanding healthcare access in underserved 
areas is reshaping the country’s healthcare landscape and 
ensuring that quality care reaches a larger portion of the 
population.
	
Overall, the Indian healthcare industry has maintained 
robust growth momentum and is poised for continued 
expansion, fuelled by strong government support, rising 
private sector investments, technological advancements, 
and a steadfast commitment to enhancing healthcare 
access and affordability for all segments of the population.
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
200
SECTION II
A.	
About Fortis Healthcare limited
	
Fortis Healthcare is one of the largest healthcare services 
providers in India with 27 hospitals (including JVs and 
O&M facilities), ~4,750 operational beds (including O&M 
beds) and 400+ diagnostics centres as of 31st March 
2025. The company offers a full spectrum of integrated 
healthcare services ranging from clinics to quaternary care 
facilities and a wide range of ancillary services. 
	
The Fortis Group employs over 23,000 people (including 
Agilus) who share IHH’s vision of becoming the India’s 
most trusted healthcare network. We draw strength and 
synergies from our partnership with our parent company 
IHH Healthcare to deliver world-class patient care and 
clinical excellence. 
	
i.	
Hospital Business
	
	
Revenue from Hospital business stood at ` 6,528 
Crores compared to ` 5,686 Crores reported during 
the corresponding year, resulting in a 14.8% year-
on-year (YoY) growth. Hospital business revenues 
contributed 84% to the total consolidated revenue 
in FY25 as compared to 82% in FY24. Hospital 
business EBITDA for FY25 was at ` 1,381 Crores 
Crores compared to ` 1,077 Crores reported for FY24. 
	
	
The growth in hospital business was led by 9.0% 
growth in ARPOB at ` 2.42 Crores per annum 
compared to ` 2.22 Crores per annum and higher 
occupancy levels that stood at 69% in FY25 as 
compared to 65% in FY24. The occupied beds 
increased by 5.1% YoY. The Company’s focus 
specialties comprising oncology, gastroenterology, 
neurosciences, renal sciences, orthopaedics and 
cardiac sciences grew 16% YoY and contributed 
62% to the total hospital revenues, similar to FY24. 
	
	
Despite the dynamic and competitive healthcare 
landscape in India, Fortis remains committed to 
enhancing clinical outcomes, embracing advanced 
technologies, and generating long-term value for 
our stakeholders. 
	
	
At Fortis, we have remained deeply committed to 
delivering excellence in specialized care. Throughout 
the year, our Key CoEs, including Cardiac Sciences, 
Oncology, Neurosciences, Gastro, Orthopedics and 
Renal Sciences have continued to lead the way in 
clinical innovation, offering world-class healthcare 
services and advancing ground-breaking treatments 
across their respective domains.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FY25 PERFORMANCE - KEY PROCEDURES
30,500+  
Joint Replacements and  
Other Ortho Procedures
~9,200  
Neuro and Spine Surgeries
67,400+  
Cardiac Procedures1
~6,200  
Robotic Surgeries3
1,000+ 
Transplants2
12,600+ 
Radiation Therapy 
Patients
Note:
FY25 witnessed YoY growth across key procedures: Cardiac Procedures grew by 11%, Ortho Procedures by 9%, Robotic Surgeries 
by 72%, Radiation Therapy by 14%, and Neuro and Spine Procedures by 17%
1Cardiac Procedures include Cardiac Surgery, Angiography, Angioplasty and other Cardiology procedures.
2Transplants include Kidney, Liver and Bone Marrow Transplants
3Robotic Surgeries include Cardiac, Urology, Oncology, Gynae, Ortho and General Surgery
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
201
	
Our dedication to delivering high-quality care 
starts with our people. Over the past year, we have 
focused on building the right capabilities to address 
the evolving healthcare needs of our patients. 
Through strategic recruitment and targeted talent 
development initiatives, we aim to strengthen our 
position as a preferred destination for world-class 
healthcare professionals.
	
In an era where technological innovation is 
transforming the healthcare landscape, Fortis 
remains at the forefront of clinical advancement by 
investing in advanced technologies. The acquisition 
and integration of state-of-the-art platforms, such 
as Gamma Knife, Robotics, MR-LINAC, Biplane Cath 
Lab, etc., have enabled our clinical teams to deliver 
precision-driven treatments.
	
Our pursuit of digital transformation is ongoing, as 
we strive to harness the power of technology to 
drive innovation and efficiency across all facets of 
our operations. We have successfully implemented 
Electronic Medical Records (EMR) Outpatient Module 
across 15 of our facilities and inpatient module at 
Fortis Manesar, which supports seamless patient care 
and contributes to operational efficiency. We have 
also upgraded our digital platforms, including the 
myFortis mobile app, website, and CRM module, 
to better serve our patients and enhance their 
experience.
	
Fortis has expanded its capacity by adding ~200 beds 
to our existing infrastructures. This also included 
the commissioning of Fortis Manesar facility. Fortis 
Manesar, a 350-bedded facility, commenced its 
operations in September 2024, offering an entire 
spectrum of clinical services, including all the 
key specialties and latest state-of-the-art medical 
equipment. This expansion not only allows us to 
accommodate more patients but also reaffirms our 
commitment to providing accessible and high-quality 
healthcare services to our communities. 
	
As part of Company’s inorganic growth strategy, 
Fortis through its wholly owned subsidiary signed 
definitive agreements in February 2025 for the 
acquisition of Shrimann Superspecialty Hospital 
in Jalandhar, Punjab that will add 228 beds to its 
network. This acquisition also provides us with the 
opportunity to further expand by adding another 
200 beds on the acquired adjacent land parcel, 
taking the total to over 450 beds at the location. As a 
part of our Portfolio rationalization strategy, we have 
divested business operations of the Richmond Road 
facility, Bangalore in December 2024.
	
Recently, in April 2025, the Company has also 
successfully 
acquired 
the 
‘Fortis’ 
brand 
and 
trademarks, for a consideration of ` 200 crores. 
Fortis has also consolidated its stake in its diagnostics 
business through the acquisition of a 31.52% equity 
holding from three private equity investors (NJBIF, 
Resurgence and IFC) in Agilus Diagnostics. Following 
this acquisition, Fortis now holds 89.20% in Agilus 
Diagnostics, up from 57.68% previously. 
	
Fortis has undertaken a comprehensive approach to 
ESG, focusing on optimizing energy consumption, 
water usage, and bio-medical waste management. 
This multifaceted approach ensures a holistic strategy 
for environmental sustainability. This program has 
yielded impressive results, achieving a group-level 
reduction of 6.53% in per occupied bed electricity 
consumption in the FY25 as compared to FY24. 
	
In conclusion, this year has been marked by significant 
progress and achievements, underscoring Fortis’s 
commitment to excellence, innovation and patient-
centered care. As we embark on the next phase of 
our journey, we remain steadfast in our dedication to 
delivering exceptional healthcare services and driving 
sustainable growth for the benefit of our patients, 
stakeholders and communities.
	
ii.	
Business Strategy
	
At Fortis, driven by our core values of (i) Patient 
Centricity, (ii) Innovation, (iii) Teamwork, (iv) Integrity, 
and (v) Ownership, we are dedicated to delivering 
exceptional healthcare services while continuously 
evolving to meet the dynamic needs of our patients 
and communities. Our strategic approach is founded 
on 6 key pillars, each designed to promote sustainable 
growth and enhance patient outcomes:
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
202
Clinical  
Excellence
Enhance 
Occupancy
Cost 
Optimization
Growth & 
Expansion
Digital 
Transformation
High 
Performance 
Team
FORTIS
	
Clinical Excellence:
	
At Fortis, clinical excellence and quality care are our 
highest priorities. We are committed to ensuring 
patient safety, clinical outcomes, and upscaling 
our services by investing in (i) Clinical Talent, (ii) 
Infrastructure, and (iii) Technology. Despite the 
competitive demand for clinical talent, we actively 
engage top clinicians, bringing unparalleled expertise 
and dedication to patient care. Our focus on 
comprehensive training and development of clinical 
staff ensures a culture of continuous improvement.
	
Our 
hospitals, 
equipped 
with 
world-class 
infrastructure, supports complex procedures and 
foster optimal conditions for patient recovery. 
Additionally, 
ongoing 
investments 
in 
medical 
technology and facility upgrades enhance care 
quality, improve outcomes, and attract top talent. 
	
By further strengthening our Centers of Excellence 
(CoEs) and adhering to rigorous quality standards, we 
continue to expand our range of healthcare services. 
We are committed to maintaining our reputation as 
a trusted provider of superior healthcare through 
continuous improvement and innovation.
	
Enhance Occupancy:
	
To enhance our market share and occupancy rates, 
we are focused on expanding our patient base and 
increasing the utilization of our available capacity. 
This is expected to be achieved through targeted 
marketing campaigns aimed at up-country markets, 
strengthening physician networks, enhancing corporate 
engagements, and implementing patient outreach 
initiatives to enhance patient engagement. We would 
also explore new domestic and international markets, 
forming strategic partnerships and engaging with local 
communities to position ourselves as the provider of 
choice for high end-quality healthcare.
	
Our growth strategy is balanced, emphasizing both the 
optimization of existing resources and the investment 
in new capacity where necessary. In regions with 
available capacity, the goal is to maximize occupancy 
by ensuring efficient resource utilization, while in areas 
facing capacity constraints, we will strategically invest in 
expanding capacity to unlock further growth potential 
in those regions. Through these efforts, we aim to drive 
sustainable growth and solidify our position in our 
existing healthcare markets.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
203
	
High Performance Team:
	
Our focus is on equipping employees with the 
necessary skills and knowledge to excel in their roles 
and contribute to the organization’s growth. Looking 
ahead, we plan to continuously invest in leadership 
development programs to ensure a steady pipeline 
of skilled leaders who will drive the organization’s 
success in the future. First batch of Fortis Future 
Operational Leadership Development Program (being 
co-run with TISS, Mumbai) completed their one-year 
long management program. 
	
Cost Optimisation:
	
Efficient resource utilization and cost management are 
essential to our long-term success. We will continue 
to focus on identifying opportunities to enhance 
operational efficiencies, streamline processes, and 
leverage technology to reduce administrative burdens 
and optimize resource allocation. By implementing 
cost-effective practices across all aspects of our 
operations, we aim to ensure sustainable profitability 
while upholding our commitment to affordability and 
accessibility. Additionally, in parallel with exploring 
new opportunities, we will continue to drive 
improvements in CBU compliance and inventory 
optimization.
	
Growth & Expansion:
	
To meet the increasing demand for healthcare 
services, we are prioritising the expansion of 
our capacity through targeted investments in 
infrastructure. Our focus is on acquiring high-quality 
assets that align with our regional cluster strategy, 
ensuring they offer significant value. This strategy 
encompasses both the addition of new facilities and 
the enhancement of existing ones. In FY25-26, we 
plan to increase our capacity by approximately 1,000 
beds, which includes the addition of 228 beds at 
our new hospital in Jalandhar. We will also focus on 
substantial capacity expansion at our larger facilities, 
including FMRI, Faridabad, and Noida. As part of our 
inorganic growth strategy, we are actively exploring 
acquisition opportunities in key geographic clusters 
such as NCR, Maharashtra, Bengaluru, Punjab, and 
Kolkata.
iii.	
Digital Initiatives
	
We continue to harness technology to enhance 
patient outcomes, streamline operations, and foster 
sustainable growth. In FY25, our digital revenue 
across the network reached over ` 2,000 Cr, 
reflecting the significant strides we have made in our 
digital transformation journey.
	
A key milestone in this journey has been the 
successful rollout of the Electronic Medical Records 
(EMR) Outpatient Module in 12 additional facilities, 
bringing the total to 15 units across our network 
and inpatient module at Fortis Manesar. This 
transformation is revolutionizing how patient data 
is captured, managed, and accessed, empowering 
our clinicians with real-time insights. This leads 
to seamless care coordination, enhanced patient 
safety, and improved clinical outcomes. Building on 
this success, we are now preparing to implement 
the EMR Inpatient (IP) Module, which will further 
streamline and enhance the management of patient 
data throughout the entire care continuum.
	
Alongside this, we have upgraded our digital 
platforms, including the myFortis mobile app, 
website, and CRM module, to better serve our 
patients and enhance their experience. These 
enhancements demonstrate our commitment to 
patient-centric care, making it easier for individuals 
to manage their healthcare needs and engage with 
our services. 
	
By continuing to drive innovation, improve efficiency, 
and uphold the highest standards of data security, 
we aim to redefine the healthcare experience, 
ensuring superior, patient-focused care today and in 
the future.
	
iv.	
Medical Strategy and Operations Group (MSOG)
	
At Fortis, we continue to strive towards providing 
the best in clinical services and patient care. Our 
stringent medical processes and protocols are 
designed to deliver superior clinical outcomes and 
enhance patient satisfaction. Highly talented and 
respected clinicians are ably supported with reliable 
and sophisticated medical technology and globally 
accredited hospitals for delivering superior results.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
204
•	
Clinical Governance:
	
It is a system which makes a healthcare organization 
accountable and enables systems to be in place for 
delivering safe and high-quality patient care while 
continuously improving services. Organizational and 
clinical leadership, including oversight by a designated 
senior 
clinician 
ensures 
appropriate 
feedback 
mechanism and effective functioning of systems. The 
Fortis Clinical Governance framework enables Senior 
Clinicians to come together, collaborate, share global 
best practices, and thereby pursue Evidence Based 
Medicine.
	
The Fortis Medical Council (FMC), as the apex 
medical body comprises of senior eminent clinicians; 
provides guidance to the executive on medical 
matters. At Specialty Councils, some of the brightest 
clinicians interact with each other as domain 
experts in particular specialty. Here, they share 
advancements taking place in their respective areas 
towards strengthening of Medical Programs. It is a 
forum where clinicians can collaborate and harness 
their expertise. Together, they provide direction to 
respective specialty and augment medical programs.
•	
Quality and Patient Safety:
	
Patient Safety indicators can assess the performance 
of 
healthcare 
services 
while 
representing 
opportunities for improvement in the delivery of 
care. Fortis has been tracking Quality and Patient 
safety indicators across its network hospitals since 
2013 through centrally designed Clinical Excellence 
Scorecard (CESC).
•	
Antimicrobial Stewardship (AMS) program:
	
Antimicrobial resistance has been identified as a 
global emergency. Although it is a natural feature 
of bacterial evolution, the misuse and overuse of 
antimicrobials increases potential for resistance. We 
were among the first to institutionalize Antimicrobial 
Stewardship (AMS) program. Improving antibiotic 
prescription and their use is critical to effectively 
treat infections, protect patients from antibiotic 
misuse, and in combating antibiotic resistance. Fortis 
is running a coordinated AMS program to address 
the increasing challenge of anti-microbial resistance. 
	
Key initiatives include:
	
Antibiograms (an overall profile of antimicrobial 
susceptibility to antibiotics) are prepared for 
each hospital and shared with clinicians for their 
reference, encouraging them towards rational 
use of antimicrobials. Thereby enabling efforts 
to reduce anti-microbial resistance especially for 
multidrug-resistant organisms.
	
Annual review of Unit antibiotic policy.
	
Monitor and evaluate use of restricted 
antibiotics.
	
Ensure justification for use of restricted 
antibiotics.
	
Compliance with surgical prophylaxis ensuring 
appropriate choice of antibiotics and adherence 
to timing/type/dose.
	
	
Drug Resistance Index (DRI) is a single, 
composite measure or index, reflecting the 
relationship between antimicrobial resistance 
and antimicrobial consumption. As a monitoring 
tool, the Drug Resistance Index (DRI) can 
assess the effectiveness of the Antimicrobial 
Stewardship (AMS) program. For the past 9 
years, Fortis has been calculating its own Drug 
Resistance Index, using it as a monitoring and 
analysis tool for antimicrobial consumption at 
our hospitals
	
Our Patient Experience teams at hospital regularly 
interact with patients to ensure care which is 
respectful and responsive to individual patient 
preferences, needs and values. Based on unsolicited 
patient feedback, Net Promoter Score (NPS) is 
calculated, monitored and evaluated for identifying 
improvement opportunities.
•	
Clinical Outcomes:
	
These are the globally agreed upon, evidence based 
measurable changes in health, function or quality 
of life that result from patient care. By tracking, 
measuring, and evaluating such outcomes, we can 
promote transparency and informed decision making 
by patients.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
205
	
In India, Fortis has been a pioneer and at the fore 
front of this global initiative. We were among the first 
private healthcare service delivery chains to measure 
and report outcomes for various clinical procedures.
	
As part of Working Group at International Consortium 
for Health Outcomes Monitoring (ICHOM) Fortis was 
instrumental in developing Coronary Artery Disease 
(CAD) Standard Set, thereby promoting evidence-
based medicine. Subsequently, as part of ICHOM 
Steering Committee, we were able to expand 
implementation across geographies.
	
At present, Fortis reports and monitors multiple 
clinical 	
outcomes including: Coronary Artery 
Disease [Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG), 
Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty 
(PTCA)], Kidney Transplant, Endoscopic Retrograde 
Cholangio 
pancreatography 
(ERCP), 
Radiation 
Oncology, Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy (URL: 
https://www.fortishealthcare.com/clinical-outcomes-
at-fortis- healthcare).
	
Outcome measures can also be reported by patients 
and their families. Measures of treatment outcomes 
from the patient’s perspective are called Patient-
reported Outcome Measures (PROMs). A Patient-
reported Outcome (PRO) is any report of the status 
of a patient’s health condition that comes directly 
from the patient, without interpretation of the 
patient’s response by a clinician or anyone else. At 
Fortis, it is our constant endeavour to understand 
whether health care services and procedures are 
making a difference to patients’ health status and 
quality of life. Using PROM tools and questionnaires, 
our Patient Experience teams continue to engage 
with patients, post-discharge, to learn more about 
their quality of life, daily functioning, symptoms, and 
other aspects of well-being.
PERCUTANEOUS TRANSLUMINAL CORONARY 
ANGIOPLASTY (PTCA)#
2024
2023
2022
Benchmark
Emergency CABG for failed procedure
0.04%
0.04%
0.04%
1.2% *
Vascular complication at puncture site requiring 
intervention
0.06%
0.04%
0.05%
1.1% *
Acute vessel occlusion requiring emergency  
re-intervention
0.30%
0.23%
0.12%
--
Post procedure neurological stroke
0.10%
0.12%
0.04%
0.284 % **
Post procedure Renal failure requiring hemodialysis
0.24%
0.13%
0.35%
--
Any Bleeding event requiring transfusion/
intervention (within 72 hrs.)
0.35%
0.17%
0.30%
4.0 % *
Delayed vascular complication at puncture site
0.01%
0.02%
0.01%
--
Readmission with acute Myocardial Infarction 
within 30 days
0.04%
0.06%
0.08%
--
Mortality during same hospital admission
1.99%
1.81%
1.98%
1.7 % *
#Includes clinical outcome from those Fortis hospitals whose data is published on FHL website; doesn’t represent all Fortis hospitals 
across India
References:
*US National Registry Data 2013
**Cleveland Clinic Outcomes Report 2014
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
206
CORONARY ARTERY BYPASS GRAFT (CABG)#
2024
2023
2022
Benchmark
Use of left Internal Thoracic Artery graft
86.07%
86.36%
85.81%
74.20% *
Need for Bail out Intra-Aortic Balloon Pump (IABP)
1.70%
0.98%
1.87%
--
Perioperative Myocardial Infarction
0.32%
0.07%
0.37%
0.96 % **
Post procedure neurological stroke
0.41%
0.20%
0.33%
1.30 % ¶
Need of Re-exploration surgery
2.73%
2.02%
1.91%
3.90 % ¶
Deep sternal wound infection
0.06%
0%
0.20%
0.30 % ¶
Predicted mortality (using EuroScore II) %
3.01%
2.71%
2.42%
-
Mortality during same hospital admission
1.91%
1.77%
1.77%
-
µ Non-risk adjusted
#Includes clinical outcome from those Fortis hospitals whose data is published on FHL website; doesn’t represent all Fortis hospitals 
across India
References:
¶ STS Annual Report 2019
* Cleveland Clinic Outcomes Report 2014
** Texas Heart Institute 2014
•	
Nursing:
	
Nursing makes up the largest workforce in a hospital. 
They are integral to patient care and play a crucial role 
in improving quality of services. Extensive induction 
programs and trainings help nurses develop their 
skills and knowledge.
	
Nursing attrition is a significant problem impacting 
all healthcare organizations and patient care due to 
factors like burnout, inadequate staffing, and lack 
of career growth opportunities. High attrition rates 
can lead to shortages of nursing staff, which can 
negatively impact the quality of patient care and 
safety. Over the past year, continued efforts have 
resulted in reducing Nursing attrition across network 
hospitals. The Fortis Future Operational Leadership 
Development Program was aimed at providing a 
career growth path for Nurses and encourage them 
for leadership roles. The program has been received 
well with several nurses successfully completing 
the course and moving forward towards taking up 
greater responsibilities in operations/administration.
•	
Electronic Medical Records (EMR):
	
An Electronic Medical Record (EMR) is a digital 
collection of health-related information of an 
individual that can be created, gathered, managed, 
and consulted by authorized clinicians and care 
provider staff within a health care organization. 
In a phased manner Fortis is implementing EMR 
application in OP and IP departments. This would 
enable interoperability across its network hospitals; 
automate access to information and streamline 
clinician’s workflow. Timely access to patient data 
would further improve clinician decision making and 
delivery of patient care.
•	
Medical Technology and Infrastructure:
	
In addition to human resources, technology 
continues to play a pivotal role in the functioning 
of a successful hospital. As science and medicine 
evolve, innovation and technology play a crucial 
role in sustaining lives. We continue to upgrade and 
expand our infrastructure while making significant 
investments in state-of-the-art medical equipment 
such as Biplane Cath-labs and 3T MRI among others.
	
Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon, is 
among the first hospitals to have MR-LINAC and 
Gamma Knife installed under one roof. The MR Linac 
machine combines two technologies – a powerful 1.5 
Tesla MRI unit with a linear accelerator - to precisely 
locate tumours, tailor the shape of X-ray beams in 
real time, and accurately deliver doses of radiation to 
tumours.
	
A Gamma Knife uses precise beams of gamma rays to 
treat an area of disease (lesion) or growth (tumour). 
It is most often used for brain. The beams of gamma 
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
207
radiation send a very intense dose of radiation to a 
small area without a need to make an incision.
•	
Clinical Research:
	
At Fortis, we carry out Interventional Trials, Real 
World Evidence studies, Investigator Initiated Studies, 
Academic Research projects & large Public Health 
Research studies. Research sites are governed by their 
Ethics Committees registered with Central Drugs 
Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO); National 
Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare 
Providers (NABH) & Department of Health Research 
(DHR). Key initiatives have been:
•	
CAR-T Cell Therapy: The trial is assessing the efficacy 
of DRL-1801 through the Overall Response Rate 
(ORR) in patients with Relapsed and Refractory 
Multiple Myeloma (RRMM). CAR-T Cell Therapy is 
a cutting-edge treatment that modifies a patient’s 
T-cells to target and destroy cancer cells, offering 
potential for patients who have exhausted other 
treatment options.
•	
Fortis hosted the Biomedical National Research 
Conference 2025 at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, 
Okhla, Delhi. The event served as a platform for 
knowledge sharing, providing valuable insights into 
the methodologies of medical research, maintaining 
ethical standards, and understanding the complexities 
of publication.
• 	
Comprehensive Online Database for Antimicrobial 
Resistance (CODAR), a Data Source Integrating 
Microbiology 
Laboratory 
Data, 
Antimicrobial 
Treatment, and Longitudinal Clinical Outcomes 
for Hospitalised Patients- A Global Multi-Centre 
Hospital-Based Pilot Study.
•	
Accreditations:
	
Four Fortis Hospitals are accredited by Joint 
Commission International (JCI) while 25 hospitals 
have been accredited/certified by NABH.
B.	
About Agilus Diagnostics Limited [“Agilus”] (Fortis’s 
diagnostics business subsidiary)
	
i.	
Key Business Highlights
	
For the financial year 2024-25, Agilus reported 
revenues of ` 1,407 Crore compared to ` 1,372 
Crore reported during the Financial Year 2023-
24. Reported EBITDA for the year is ` 274 crore, 
compared to ` 229 crore in FY24. EBITDA margins 
are 19% and 17%, respectively. The Company 
operating EBITDA before one off expenses (primarily 
rebranding costs and provisioning related to certain 
government business) for the year stood at ` 309 
Crore, representing a margin of 22.0% compared 
to a margin of 19.6% during the previous financial 
year.
	
The business served a total ~16.3 million patients 
during the year, compared to 16.4 million during 
FY24. Through these patients (Accessions), it 
undertook 39.2 million tests during the year 
compared to 38.8 million tests performed in FY24. 
	
In an endeavor to go closer to the customer and 
provide services at their doorstep, we have increased 
our total number of touchpoints to over 4,100. 
Our B2C:B2B mix is 52:48 in FY’25 compared to 
51:49 in FY’24. The business continued to have a 
well-diversified geographical mix with no over-
dependence on any region, allowing it to capitalize 
on the pan-India network optimally. Regional FY 
2024-25 revenue contributions were 31% from the 
North, 21% from the West, 31% from the South, 
13% from East, and 3% from International. Our 
preventive portfolio also went up by 13% in FY’25 
compared to previous financial year, contributing 
11% to overall revenues, up from 10% in FY24. From 
a product standpoint, the revenue contributions are 
34% from specialised testing, 55% from routine 
tests, and 11% from our wellness portfolio
	
ii.	
Training and Development 
	
Agilus 
remains 
committed 
to 
training 
and 
development, 
offering 
tailored 
competency 
enhancement 
programs 
for 
employees. 
Our 
curriculum includes a blend of technical, skills and 
behavioural training sessions facilitated by internal 
SMEs and external experts. In FY 2024-25 we clocked 
~6,400 man-days conducted over 1,418 training 
hours, reaching 23,000+ participants count. 
	
By leveraging platforms like MedGurukul and 
TechTalk, we shared technical expertise across the 
specialities. We conducted specific soft skills session 
based on identified training needs for different set 
of employees and leveraged Agilus LMS to help 
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
208
employees go through compliance training through 
interactive eLearning modules. 
	
Agilus 
facilitated 
targeted 
upskilling 
training 
interventions for its Sales Team (Agilus Consultative 
Selling Skills), Phlebotomists (Agilus Phlebotomy 
Essentials) and customer facing staff including 
phlebotomists (F.A.C.E. & Patient Centric Upselling). 
Agilus organised an experiential outbound leadership 
development program (G.R.A.C.E.) around A.C.E. 
framework for its leadership team. Our competency 
framework, supported by intense research, aims 
to drive a performance-driven culture focused on 
collaboration, ownership, teamwork, and innovation. 
	
iii.	
Retail 
Network 
Expansion: 
Strengthening 
Accessibility & Growth
	
At Agilus, our unwavering commitment to expanding 
our retail network continues to enhance accessibility 
to high-quality diagnostic services across India. By 
leveraging 
strategic 
collaborations, 
geographic 
diversification, and an Omni channel approach, we 
have reinforced our presence in both metro cities and 
emerging markets, ensuring a seamless experience 
for our customers.
	
Over the past year, we have accelerated our outreach 
by adding customer touchpoints and expanding our 
direct client base, further deepening our engagement 
with healthcare providers and communities. Today, 
our network comprises 400+ labs, 4,100+ customer 
touchpoints, 14,200+ Direct Points and a robust 
presence in over 30+ states and union territories.
	
Navigating industry dynamics, including brand 
transitions and evolving consumer expectations, 
we have sustained our growth momentum through 
innovative below-the-line (BTL) initiatives, hyperlocal 
marketing, and strengthened partnerships with 
residential welfare associations (RWAs). Looking 
ahead, we remain focused on expanding into 
underserved regions, enhancing digital integrations, 
and fostering strategic alliances to build a more 
connected and resilient diagnostic ecosystem.
	
iv.	
International Business
	
The International Operations of the Company 
comprise state-of-the-art labs in Dubai (100% 
Subsidiary), 
Nepal 
(50:50 
Joint 
Venture) 
in 
Kathmandu and Biratnagar. Agilus’s international 
network consists of 800+ direct clients spread 
across the SAARC region, Sub-Saharan Africa, 
Southeast Asia, CIS, Gulf, and the Middle East. These 
centres send samples in a temperature-controlled 
environment to Agilus Diagnostics Reference labs in 
India, which process the samples and provide reports 
in real-time using Agilus Diagnostics efficient and 
highly acclaimed and awarded IT system and robust 
logistics network. Alongside laboratory services, 
the Company also assists its international clients 
and partners in the planning and implementation 
of laboratory management services, with complete 
IT support through its indigenously developed lab 
management software - ‘CLIMS.’
	
We will continue our focus on growing our business 
in Asia Pacific, the Middle East, CIS, and Africa 
through network expansion. 
v.	
Brand & Marketing Initiatives – FY2024-25
	
FY2024-25 was a transformative year for Agilus 
Diagnostics as we continued the rebranding journey 
of our 29-year-old legacy brand. The name ‘Agilus’—
derived from ‘Agility’ and ‘Trust’—reflects innovation, 
enhanced customer experience, and credibility. The 
brand revamp introduced a new logo and color 
scheme, with blue symbolizing trust and loyalty, and a 
forward chevron in red, yellow, and green representing 
our commitment to staying ahead.
	
We strategically leveraged key sports events such as 
the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2024 and the ICC 
Champions Trophy for our brand and marketing 
initiatives, coupled with onboarding reputed actors 
from the Indian film industry to further bolster our 
brand image.
	
In parallel with our branding efforts, we made 
significant strides in digital transformation. A new 
and improved customer mobile app and website were 
launched, designed with a simpler, more intuitive 
interface to enhance user experience. Over the year, 
the website attracted 38 lakh unique visitors, while 
the mobile app saw 3 lakh new installs, with an 
active monthly user base of 2.1 lakh customers. Our 
hyperlocal SEO strategy further strengthened the 
digital presence of Agilus centers, increasing online 
leads and walk-ins.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
209
	
Customer Experience (loyalty program and app 
development)
	
Club Agilus is the first-ever consumer loyalty 
program in the diagnostics industry. This year we 
undertook several initiatives to increase its awareness 
and to grow its customer base. Offering a zero-fee 
membership, the program allows customers to 
earn and redeem reward points on transactions, 
enrollments, profile completions, surveys, and other 
engagement activities. These points can be used 
for discounts and privileges at Agilus centers and 
partner establishments. With 34 lakh customers 
already enrolled, we plan to expand and promote the 
program further in FY2025-26.
	
Agilus Diagnostics is a research-driven organization 
committed to pioneering advancements in diagnostic 
medicine. To maintain its leadership in the field, the 
company engages extensively with key stakeholders, 
particularly physicians. Over the past year, Agilus 
collaborated with more than 11,000 specialists and 
super-specialists through 240 Continuing Medical 
Education (CME) sessions, Round Table Meets 
(RTMs), and scientific conferences.
	
Raising public awareness about critical health 
conditions remains a core focus. This year, Agilus 
implemented 
numerous 
targeted 
campaigns, 
including initiatives for World Doctors’ Day, Diwali, 
New Year wellness, Mother’s Day, World Heart Day, 
World Diabetes Day, World Hypertension Day, World 
IBD Awareness, World Thalassemia Awareness, 
World Digestive Health Awareness, Monsoon 
Dengue Prevention, Allergy Awareness, and Breast 
Cancer Awareness. These programs are designed to 
educate healthcare professionals and the public on 
disease prevention and early detection. 
	
To further strengthen its commitment to preventive 
healthcare, Agilus Diagnostics introduced the 
Complete Care Packages, offering a wide range of 
diagnostic services tailored to address diverse health 
concerns, facilitating early detection and proactive 
healthcare management. The SMART reports 
integrate advanced diagnostics with personalized 
recommendations, providing actionable insights 
into diet, lifestyle modifications, and risk factors, 
empowering patients and physicians with data-driven 
health strategies for improved clinical outcomes.
	
New Test and Technology
	
This year, Agilus significantly expanded its diagnostic 
offerings with over 40 new specialized tests, 
including advanced panels for oncology, infectious 
diseases, hematology, and allergen screening. 
Notable additions include the Cancer Hotspot 50 
Genes Panel, STAT Dx Comprehensive Respiratory 
Panel, STAT Dx Gastrointestinal Pathogen Panel, STAT 
Dx Meningitis-Encephalitis Panel, Human Interleukin 
2 Receptor Assay, Lymphoma NGS Panel, Leukemia 
Genetic Panel, Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH) Panel, Minimal Residual Disease Detection 
via NGS, and Comprehensive Infectious Disease 
Panel by NGS. The introduction of Gut Microbiome 
Analysis and specialized allergy panels for the Indian 
population further strengthens Agilus’ position in 
precision diagnostics.
	
Technological innovation remains at the forefront, 
with the launch of the Genexus Integrated Sequencer, 
a next-generation sequencing (NGS) system that 
delivers rapid, high-accuracy genetic test results. 
The introduction of 3-Day Oncogenomics marks a 
significant breakthrough in oncology diagnostics, 
offering three-day turnaround times for genomic 
profiling of myeloid malignancies. The Oncomine 
Myeloid Panel (DNA & RNA) significantly reduces wait 
times compared to industry norms, where similar 
analyses often take two to three weeks. Additionally, 
the Oncomine Precision Assay provides liquid biopsy 
results within two days, expediting clinical decision-
making and improving patient care.
	
Strategic 
collaborations 
continue 
to 
enhance 
diagnostic capabilities. A partnership with Lucence, 
a global leader in molecular diagnostics, has 
strengthened Agilus’ capabilities in cancer detection, 
treatment 
selection, 
and 
disease 
monitoring. 
Through this collaboration, Agilus introduced the 
Liquid Hallmark Test, a non-invasive NGS-based assay 
offering critical therapeutic insights when traditional 
biopsies are insufficient. The Rapid Tissue Mark 
Test further enables the detection of over 50 DNA/
RNA genomic alterations, including Microsatellite 
Instability (MSI), in FFPE tissue samples.
	
As the first commercial lab to offer advanced 
diagnostics, Agilus introduced the Claudin 18.2 
Test, a Ventana-approved companion diagnostic 
test for Zolbetuximab, crucial for targeted treatment 
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
210
of gastric and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) 
adenocarcinomas. 
Claudin 
18.2 
expression 
is 
observed in up to 70% of gastric cancers and 
60% of pancreatic adenocarcinomas, making it 
a promising target for precision medicine. The 
company also introduced RhD Genotyping via Cell-
Free DNA (cfDNA), a non-invasive prenatal test for 
determining fetal RhD status in pregnancies involving 
Rh-negative mothers, thereby reducing the need for 
unnecessary interventions. Other notable additions 
include Component Resolved Diagnosis (CRD) 
Allergy Testing, which allows precise identification 
of IgE-mediated allergies, and Gut Microbiome 
Testing, a comprehensive analysis of gut microbial 
diversity, providing insights into digestion, immunity, 
metabolism, and overall well-being.
	
Agilus’ commitment to public health extends to its 
partnership with the Indian Menopausal Society, 
aimed at transforming cervical cancer screening 
through co-testing (HPV + Liquid-Based Cytology 
[LBC]). This initiative enhances early detection, 
improves health outcomes, and raises awareness 
about the importance of routine screening, 
particularly 
among 
menopausal-age 
women. 
Additionally, Agilus is collaborating on a research 
initiative to publish a national dataset establishing 
the clinical significance of co-testing in cervical 
cancer prevention.
	
Through these pioneering developments, Agilus 
Diagnostics continues to drive innovation in precision 
medicine, preventive healthcare, and genomic 
diagnostics, reinforcing its commitment to improving 
healthcare accessibility and patient outcomes.
	
vi.	
Patient Care & Experience (Cust Exp)
	
Over the past years, we’ve introduced several 
initiatives to improve the patient experience, from 
User-friendly Consumer App, Seamless online 
booking, Health Trends, 24*7 BOT support to Tele 
Consultations for guidance. These efforts are aimed 
at reducing stress and offering more accessible care 
to our patient.
	
In addition to delivering accurate and timely results, 
we prioritise patient care by enhancing both 
efficiency and empathy. Last year, we introduced a 
new CRM system that gives us a complete view of 
each patient’s journey, allowing us to respond more 
quickly and efficiently. This reduction in response 
time helps alleviate patient anxiety, as concerns 
are addressed promptly, making patients feel more 
at ease. Our teams are regularly trained to provide 
support and comfort at every step. 
	
We have a robust service recovery process in place. 
All patient feedback is recorded, and we make it a 
priority to reach out to each patient Every detail of 
the experience is heard and captured, followed by 
a Root Cause Analysis and the implementation of 
corrective actions to address any concerns. Once the 
patient’s issue is resolved to their satisfaction, we take 
additional steps to develop preventive measures—
such as automation and process improvements—to 
reduce error rates and continuously enhance the 
patient journey.
vii.	 Driving Innovation & Operational Excellence in 
Agilus via Technology
	
At Agilus, technology remains the cornerstone 
of our mission to provide accurate, population-
scale, efficient, and accessible diagnostic solutions. 
In FY 2024-25, we continued to invest in cutting-
edge solutions, automation, and Technology/
Digital transformation to enhance patient care and 
operational efficiency. As India’s leading diagnostic 
laboratory, we are embarking on an ambitious multi-
year Technology Transformation Program designed 
to establish us as the nation’s premier healthcare 
partner.  
	
	
Advanced Diagnostic Technologies
	
This year, we modernized our state-of-the-art 
Genesys platform to continue delivery of next-
generation sequencing (NGS) in our Genomics 
Division, completed evaluation of a centralized-
intelligent Radiology Software to be rolled out in the 
upcoming fiscal ensuring faster & precision reporting 
by eliminating any manual intervention.
	
Automation & Laboratory Network Expansion
	
To strengthen our nationwide diagnostic network, 
we rolled out SDWAN across 200+ labs, matured our 
CLIMS API offerings for frictionless integration with 
B2B aggregators. These initiatives have enhanced 
efficiency, 
minimized 
human 
error 
including 
reconciliation challenges, and increased scalability to 
meet the growing demand for diagnostic services.
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
211
	
Seamless Patient Experience through Digital 
Solutions
	
In our continued commitment to patient-centric care, 
we continue to our mobile app and web platforms, 
enabling seamless booking, real-time test tracking, 
and instant report access. 
	
viii.	 Research and Development 
	
	
In FY 2024-2025, Agilus Diagnostics expanded its 
focus on diagnostic advancements, process efficiency, 
high-end technologies, and emerging areas such as 
Genomics. The major objective was to enhance the 
esoteric test menu to cater to Pan India requests. Six 
new tests targeting seasonal infections and a broad 
range of bacterial detection and identification were 
introduced.
	
	
The advanced genomics portfolio was further 
expanded with new multi-disorder panels. Point-
of-care technology for emergency diagnostics 
was successfully implemented, offering rapid and 
cost-effective syndromic panels for respiratory, 
neurological, 
and 
gastrointestinal 
infections. 
Following successful deployment at the Goregaon 
Reference Lab, this technology was also installed at a 
key location in Gurgaon.
	
	
During the year, Agilus established a technology 
transfer agreement to bring advanced testing 
capabilities in-house, enhancing offerings for wellness 
clients and clinical research service requirements. Two 
contract evaluation requests for new technologies 
were successfully concluded, along with a research 
collaboration with an academic institution.
	
	
The R&D division is progressing toward registration 
as an Evaluation Center for Medical Devices and 
Diagnostics under regulatory authorities. Marketing 
campaign support was provided for the High-Risk 
HPV test launch on International Women’s Day and 
for a new molecular TB test planned for World TB 
Day.
	
	
Additionally, clinician engagement through academic 
discourses and round-table meetings focusing on 
advancements in molecular diagnosis continued 
throughout the year.
	
ix.	
Academic Achievements 
	
Agilus Diagnostic Ltd is the first diagnostic laboratory 
to offer a one-year Fellowship program to doctors in 
India that imparts applied knowledge of molecular 
pathology in cancers, genetic disorders and infectious 
diseases under the aegis of Maharashtra University 
of Hsealth Sciences (MUHS), Nashik. Our innovative 
learning platform Agilus MedGurukul for upskilling 
of doctors and technologists conducted 15 training 
sessions and 2 CME’s. At the IHH Quality Summit 
Bharat 2024 or the first time a dedicated Laboratory 
Track session was held. This was organised by Agilus 
doctors. Participants included IHH lab partners 
from Malaysia (Premier Integrated Labs), Singapore 
(Parkway Laboratories), Türkiye (Acibadem Labmed), 
Gleneagles Hospitals in India and Hong Kong. The 
event covered important topics, including innovations 
shaping modern laboratories, breakthroughs in 
infectious disease diagnosis, the rise of emerging 
pathogens, advancements beyond lipid profiling, and 
digital pathology. In FY 2024-25 there were 2 issues 
of Pulse, Agilus’ medical case reports journal. Our 
doctors also contributed to Fortis Clinical Connect. 
Agilus doctors participated in national conferences 
and published more than 28 scientific research 
papers in indexed peer-reviewed journals. rch papers 
in indexed peer-reviewed journals. 
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
212
C.	
Financial and Operational Performance of the Company – Consolidated Performance, Hospitals and Diagnostics 
business Performance and KPIs
	
For the financial year 2024-2025, the Company reported a consolidated revenue from operations of ` 7,783 Crores compared 
to ` 6,893 Crores reported for FY 2023-24. Revenue from Hospital business stood at ` 6,528 Crores compared to ` 5,686 Crores 
reported during the corresponding year. Agilus Diagnostics, the diagnostic business of the company, reported gross revenues 
of ` 1,407 Crores compared to ` 1,372 Crores in the previous financial year. Considering elimination of inter-company revenue 
(within the group), net revenue of Agilus was at ` 1,255 Crores compared to ` 1,207 Crores in FY 2023-24.
Revenue
(₹ Crores)
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
% Change
Total Consolidated Income*
6,931
7,850
13.3%
Revenues from operations
6,893
7,783
12.9%
Hospital Business**
5,686
6,528
14.8%
Diagnostic Business (Gross)
1,372
1,407
2.5%
Diagnostic Business (Net)
1,207
1,255
4.0%
(*Total consolidated income is net of inter-co elimination and includes other income of ₹ 66.9 Crores in FY2024-25 and ₹ 38.3 
Crores in FY2023-24) 
(**Hospital Business includes P&L of international entities also)
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
The consolidated EBITDA of the Company stood at 
` 1,655 Crores compared to ` 1,306 Crores for the 
previous corresponding year. EBITDA margin of the 
Company stood at 21.3% in FY 2024-25 versus 18.9% 
reported in FY 2023-24. Hospital business EBITDA for 
FY 2024-25 was at ` 1,381 Crores compared to ` 1,077 
Crores reported for FY 2023-24. EBITDA margin of the 
hospital business stood at 21.1% in FY 2024-25 versus 
18.9% in FY 2023-24.
The diagnostic business of the Company reported EBITDA 
of ` 274 Crores compared to ` 229 Crores reported in 
the previous corresponding year. EBITDA margin of the 
diagnostic business stood at 19.5% (basis gross revenue) 
compared to 16.7% for the year FY 2023-24.
Consolidated Profit after tax for FY 2024-25 stood at ` 
809 Crores compared to ` 645 Crores reported in the 
previous financial year. PAT includes an exceptional loss 
of ` 89.3 Crores in FY 2024-25 primarily pertaining to 
impairment movement in an associate Company and 
impairment of assets in a subsidiary company, offset 
by gain of ` 23.5 Cr related to the divestment of the 
Richmond Road, Bangalore facility in December 2024 and 
` 16.0 Crores in FY2023-24 which pertains to the reversal 
of impairment in an associate company and profit related 
to the divestment of Chennai facilities.
With respect to the balance sheet, the Company’s net 
debt stood at ` 1,694 Crores as on March 31, 2025 
versus ` 264 Crores as of March 31, 2024 (net debt to 
equity of 0.18x vs 0.03x, respectively). Gross debt of 
the Company stood at ` 2,196 Crores as on March 31, 
2025 versus ` 859 Crores as of March 31, 2024. Net 
Debt to EBITDA stood at 0.93x for the year FY2024-25 
compared to 0.17x for FY2023-24 (basis Q4 annualized 
EBITDA). The company successfully raised ₹ 1,550 crores 
through the issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs), leading to an increase in Net Debt to EBITDA. 
Leveraging these funds, along with internal accruals, the 
Company consolidated its stake in Agilus Diagnostics 
Ltd. to 89.20% by acquiring 31.52% from Private Equity 
investors. The company also declared a dividend of ` 1 
per share, subject to shareholder’s approval.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
213
D.	
Human Resources
	
As we reflect on another successful year, our commitment 
to building a high-performance organization remains at 
the core of everything we do in Human Resources. In 
today’s dynamic and competitive landscape, the key to 
sustained success lies in empowering the most valuable 
asset - Our People.
	
This year, our focus has been on fostering a culture of 
excellence, collaboration, and continuous growth. We 
have made significant strides in aligning our HR practices 
with the organization’s overall strategic goals, ensuring 
that our workforce is not only skilled and motivated but 
also engaged and invested in the company’s vision.
	
We’ve embraced a holistic approach that combines 
talent acquisition, employee development, performance 
management, and employee well-being. By providing 
our employees with the right tools, opportunities for 
advancement, and a supportive environment, we have 
built a strong foundation for a high-performance culture 
that drives results, innovation, and engagement. Efficacy 
of effectiveness of our initiatives is evident through the 
facts that – 
a.	
Overall Annualized Attrition further improved by 2% in 
absolute terms, majorly owing to 5% improvement for 
Nursing category. Both are best outcomes of last 5 years. 
b.	
We continued to fortify our Fortis Apprentice Program, 
one of the biggest skill development programs in the 
Healthcare space. We now have a concurrent pipeline of 
approximately 2000 apprentices across our network of 
markets. 
c.	
This year, we strengthened our commitment to leadership 
development by investing across all levels of the 
organization - from the C-suite to senior and mid-level 
leaders. Our leaders participated in executive education 
programs offered by globally renowned academic 
institutions, gaining fresh perspectives and strategic 
insights aligned with the evolving healthcare landscape. 
Our hospital & functional heads attended our group level, 
IGLOBE Program which equips current and future hospital 
leaders with the skills, mindset, and agility required to lead 
in a dynamic, patient-centred environment.
d.	
Our leaders collectively completed over 30,000 hours of 
online learning this year, reflecting a strong shift toward 
digital capability building and a culture of continuous 
development. Through access to premium digital content 
and curated learning experiences, we empowered leaders 
to learn anytime, anywhere. These initiatives reflect 
our belief that leadership at every level is key to driving 
organizational excellence and sustaining long-term 
impact.
e.	
Our HCM platform which was commissioned last year 
has been stabilised and is now a strong source of data-
based decision making. We are making good progress on 
integrations across HIS, EPR and My Fortis applications for 
delivering well automated workflows.  
f.	
Collaboration as a Catalyst for Employee Well-being 
and Excellence in Care - As an organization, we fully 
recognize that collaboration is foundational to healthcare 
excellence, operational efficiency & employee wellbeing 
and our people development strategies are intentionally 
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
EBITDA (₹ Crores)
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
% Change
Consolidated EBITDA
1,306
1,655
26.7%
EBITDA Margin
18.9%
21.3%
Hospital Business**
1,077
1,381
28.2%
EBITDA Margin
18.9%
21.1%
Diagnostic Business
229
274
19.8%
EBITDA Margin (basis gross revenue)
16.7%
19.5%
	
(**Hospital Business includes P&L of international entities also)
Key Performance Indicators 
(Hospitals)
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Key Performance 
Indicators (Diagnostics)
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Occupancy
65%
69%
No of Accessions (in Million)
16.4
16.3
Average revenue per occupied 
bed (₹ Crores)
2.22
2.42
Average length of stay (days)
4.28
4.19
Average real. per accession (₹)
836
858
OPD Footfalls (in Million)
2.80
2.91
Tests performed (in Million)
38.8
39.2
IPD Discharges (in Million)
0.25
0.27
Average real. per test (₹)
353
358
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
STATUTORY REPORTS
214
designed to foster this across teams. In 2024 we launched 
a large-scale training initiative to build collaborative 
skills and mindsets across the organization. This effort 
reached over 8000 employees, ensuring that our teams 
are better equipped to support each other and deliver 
coordinated, compassionate care. This investment reflects 
our commitment to building a culture where collaboration 
drives both people and performance
g.	
Expanding Access to Holistic Well-being Support - Rooted 
in our belief that well-being extends beyond physical 
health, we remain committed to supporting the mental and 
financial wellness of our employees. To help individuals be 
their best selves-both personally and professionally - we 
expanded access to expert-led resources through a digital 
first approach. Offering employees on-demand support, 
including mental health sessions, financial guidance, 
and expert lectures, all tailored to the unique realities of 
working in healthcare. 
E. 	
Risks and Concerns
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited operates in a competitive business 
environment and is exposed to a broad range of risks and 
uncertainties that may impact the Company’s strategic and 
financial goals. These risks—such as operational, regulatory, 
human resources, and financial—are inherent and are 
characteristic of any business including that of healthcare. 
The Company places strong emphasis on the continuous 
identification and mitigation of business risks and fosters 
a culture of risk awareness across the organization. While 
risks cannot be entirely eliminated, appropriate measures 
are in place to mitigate significant risks.
F.	
Internal Control Systems and their Adequacy
	
At Fortis Healthcare Limited, the internal control system 
has been designed to correspond to the size and 
complexity of the operations and the incremental changes 
made. The management believes that internal controls 
are the prerequisite for effective governance and efficient 
execution of business plans within a framework of checks 
and balances. Management is committed to ensuring an 
effective internal controls environment, commensurate 
with the size and complexity of the business, which 
assures compliance with internal policies, applicable laws 
and regulations, ensures reliability and accuracy of records, 
promotes operational efficiency, protects resources and 
assets, helps to prevent and detect fraud, errors and 
irregularities and overall minimises the risks. 
	
The Company has a well-established internal controls 
framework comprising a set of policies, procedures and 
systems, instrumental in enhancing the efficiency and 
effectiveness of business operations, reducing risks and 
costs, and improving decision-making and accountability. 
The financial controls are evaluated for operating 
effectiveness through management’s ongoing monitoring 
and review process.
	
An independent and empowered Internal Audit Function 
with support from highly skilled resources (including 
external audit firms) carries out risk-based internal audits 
of the Company’s operations. Chief Internal Audit & Risk 
Officer directly reports functionally to the Audit Committee 
and administratively to the Managing Director & CEO of 
the Company. Key internal audit findings are presented to 
the Audit Committee at its quarterly meetings.
	
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT
	
Except for the historical information contained herein, 
statements in this discussion which contain words or 
phrases such as ‘will’, ‘would’, ‘indicating’, ‘expected 
to’ etc., and similar expressions or variations of such 
expressions may constitute ‘forward-looking statements’. 
These forward-looking statements involve a number of 
risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those suggested by the 
forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties 
include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully 
implement our strategy, future business plans, our growth 
and expansion in business, the impact of any acquisitions, 
our financial capabilities, technological implementation 
and changes, the actual growth in demand for our 
products and services, cash flow projections, our exposure 
to market risks as well as other general risks applicable 
to the business or industry. The Company undertakes no 
obligation to update forward looking statements to reflect 
events or circumstances after the date thereof. These 
discussions and analysis should be read in conjunction 
with the Company’s financial statements included herein 
Sand the notes thereto.	
References
•	
Investment Opportunities in India’s Healthcare Sector, 
NITI Aayog
•	
IBEF report on Healthcare Sector, November 2024
•	
IRDA Annual Report - 2023-24
•	
Jefferies Equity Research Report, January 2025
•	
CRISIL Report, August 2024
•	
CRISIL Report on Diagnostics Industry, October 2024
•	
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
•	
Market Research, Equity and Other Reports, Web 
Articles, Press & Media Reports and Others
Management Discussion & Analysis (Contd.)
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Fortis Healthcare Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
OPINION
We have audited the standalone financial statements of 
Fortis Healthcare Limited (the “Company”) which comprise 
the standalone balance sheet as at 31 March 2025, and the 
standalone statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in 
equity and standalone statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, 
including material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of 
the Company as at 31 March 2025, and its profit and other 
comprehensive loss, changes in equity and its cash flows for the 
year ended on that date.
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the 
Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
EMPHASIS OF MATTERS
a.	
We draw attention to note 21 and 22 of the standalone 
financial statements which deal with various matters 
including the ongoing investigation by Serious Fraud 
Investigation Office (“SFIO”) on Fortis Healthcare 
Limited (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the 
Group”) regarding alleged improper transactions and 
non-compliances with laws and regulations including 
Companies Act, 2013 (including matters relating to 
remuneration paid to managerial personnel). These 
transactions and non-compliances relate to or originated 
prior to take over of control by reconstituted board of 
directors in the year ended 31 March 2018. As mentioned 
in the note, the Group has been submitting information 
required by SFIO and is also cooperating in the regulatory 
investigations.
	
As explained in the said note, the Group had recorded 
significant adjustments/ provisions in its books of account 
during the year ended 31 March 2018. The Company 
has launched legal proceedings and has also filed a 
complaint with the Economic Offences Wing (‘EOW’) 
against erstwhile promoters and their related entities 
based on the findings of the investigation conducted 
by the Group. Further, based on management’s detailed 
analysis and consultation with external legal counsel, a 
further provision has been made and recognised in the 
year ended 31 March 2021 for any contingency that may 
arise from the aforesaid issues. As per the management, 
any further financial impact, to the extent it can be 
reliably estimated as at present, is not expected to be 
material.
b.	
We draw attention to note 20(A) of the standalone 
financial statements relating to the order dated 22 
September 2022 of the Hon’ble Supreme Court whereby 
it has directed the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi inter alia 
that it may also consider issuing appropriate process and 
appointing forensic auditor(s) to analyse the transactions 
entered into between the Company and RHT Health Trust 
and other related transactions. The above mentioned note 
also states that the Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed 
that prima facie, it appears to be acquisition of proprietary 
interest of RHT Health Trust by the Company are to 
subserve the business structure of the Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of above matters.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
215
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of Goodwill and Investments
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company is required to annually test the amount of 
goodwill for impairment. Investments in subsidiary companies, 
associates and joint ventures are tested for impairment in case an 
indicator of potential impairment is identified. There are inherent 
uncertainties involved in forecasting and discounting future cash 
flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability. 
Accordingly, this is one of the key judgmental areas in our audit.
In this area our audit procedures included testing of the 
Company’s budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts 
are based; and the principles and integrity of the Company’s 
discounted cashflow model. We used our valuation specialist to 
assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used 
by the Company. In particular this included those relating to the 
forecast revenue growth, profit margins and discount rates. We 
compared the Company’s assumptions to externally derived data 
as well as our own assessment in relation to key inputs such as 
projected economic growth, cost inflation and discount rates. We 
also performed sensitivity analysis of the key assumptions. We 
also assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in note 5(ii) and 
5(iv) of standalone financial statements and sensitivities of key 
assumptions. Also refer note 2(e)(ii) and 2(f) of the standalone 
financial statements for the related accounting policy.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
OTHER INFORMATION
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s annual 
report, but does not include the financial statements and 
auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements 
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
MANAGEMENT’S 
AND 
BOARD 
OF 
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, 
profit/ loss and other comprehensive income, changes in 
equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 
133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial  controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the standalone financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
216
of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board 
of Directors.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of standalone financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
REPORT 
ON 
OTHER 
LEGAL 
AND 
REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
217
2 A.	As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books except 
for the matter stated in the paragraph 2(B)(f) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
c.	
The standalone balance sheet, the standalone 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the standalone statement 
of changes in equity and the standalone statement of 
cash flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the books of account.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified under 
Section 133 of the Act.
	
e.	
The matters described in the “Emphasis of Matters” 
paragraph above, in our opinion, may have an 
adverse effect on the functioning of the Company.
	
f.	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on 1 April 2025 taken on record 
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is 
disqualified as on 31 March 2025 from being appointed 
as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
g.	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith are 
as stated in the paragraph 2A(b) above on reporting 
under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and paragraph 
2B(f) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
h.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 
B”.
B.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our 
opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us:
	
a.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations as at 31 March 2025 on its financial 
position in its standalone financial statements - Refer 
Note 11 and 20 to 23 to the standalone financial 
statements.
	
b.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts for which there were 
any material foreseeable losses.
	
c.	
There were no amounts which were required to be 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company.
	
d 	
(i)	
The management has represented that, to the 
best of it’s knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the Note 26(iii) to the standalone financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Company to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(ii)	
The management has represented that, to the 
best of it’s knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the Note 26(iv) to the standalone financial 
statements, no funds have been received by 
the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company shall 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(iii)	 Based on the audit procedures that have been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
218
Rule 11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
	
e.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during the 
year, in respect of the same declared for the previous 
year, is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act to 
the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
As stated in Note 29 to the standalone financial 
statements, the Board of Directors of the Company 
have proposed final dividend for the year which 
is subject to the approval of the members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act 
to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
	
f.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, except for the instance mentioned below, 
the Company has used accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account, which have a 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the respective 
software:
	
	
i.	
the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled on certain non-editable 
fields/ tables of the accounting software used 
for maintaining the books of account relating 
to revenue and consumption records.
	
	
	
Further, where audit trail (edit log) facility 
was enabled and operated for the respective 
accounting software, we did not come across 
any instance of the audit trail feature being 
tampered with.
	
	
	
Additionally, except to the extent audit trail was 
not enabled for the previous year, the audit trail 
has been preserved by the Company as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention.
C.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s 
Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the 
Company to its directors during the current year is in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the 
Act. The remuneration paid to any director is not in 
excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the 
Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed 
other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which are 
required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Partner
Place: Gurugram 	
Membership No.: 076124
Date: 20 May 2025	
ICAI UDIN:25076124BMRJWG4473
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
219
(i) 	
(a) 	 (A)	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
	
	
(B)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(i) 	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has a regular 
programme of physical verification of its Property, 
Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant and 
equipment are verified at least once over a period of 
two years.  In accordance with this programme, certain 
property, plant and equipment were verified during 
the year. In our opinion, this periodicity of physical 
verification is reasonable having regard to the size of 
the Company and the nature of its assets.  No material 
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the title deeds of immovable 
properties (other than immovable properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the leases agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in 
the standalone financial statements are held in the 
name of the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including 
Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both 
during the year.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there are no proceedings 
initiated or pending against the Company for 
holding any benami property under the Prohibition 
of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules 
made thereunder.
(ii) 	 (a)	
The inventory, has been physically verified by the 
management during the year. In our opinion, 
the frequency of such verification is reasonable 
and procedures and coverage as followed by 
management were appropriate.   No discrepancies 
were noticed on verification between the physical 
stocks and the book records that were more than 
10% in the aggregate of each class of inventory
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five 
crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks or financial 
institutions on the basis of security of current assets. 
In our opinion, the quarterly returns or statements 
filed by the Company with such banks or financial 
institutions are in agreement with the books of 
account of the Company.
(iii)	 According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not provided any guarantee 
or security or advances in the nature of loans, secured or 
unsecured to companies, firms, limited liability partnership 
or any other parties during the year. The Company has 
made investments and granted loans to companies, in 
respect of which the requisite information is as below.  The 
Company has not granted any loans to firms, limited 
liability partnership or any other parties during the year.
ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FORTIS 
HEALTHCARE LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2025
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even 
date)
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
	
(a)	
Based on the audit procedures carried on by us and as per the information and explanations given to us the Company has 
provided loans to any other entity as below:
Particulars
Loans 
(Rupees in lacs)
Aggregate amount during the year Subsidiaries*
8,682.64
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date Subsidiaries*
10,381.53
	
	
*As per Companies Act, 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
220
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by us, in our 
opinion the investments made and terms and conditions of the grant of loans provided during the year are, prima facie, 
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, in the case of certain loans given, in our opinion the repayment of principal and payment of interest has 
been stipulated and the repayments or receipts have been regular. However, in respect of certain loans, there were no 
repayments or receipts during the year as the amounts falling due during the year have been extended. Also, refer to 
clause (e) below. 
	
	
Further, in case of advances in the nature of loan as listed below, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of 
interest has not been stipulated and accordingly we are unable to comment on whether the repayments or receipts are 
regular. These amounts have been fully provided in books in earlier years.
S. 
No.
Name of the entity
Amount in 
(Rupees in lacs)
Nature
Remarks
I.
RB Seth Jessa Ram and Bros, Charitable Hospital 
Trust
269.81
Advances in the 
nature of loans
There is no stipulation of 
schedule of repayment of 
principal or payment of 
interest
II.
Reliant Healthcare Consultancy Private Limited
52.53
Advances in the 
nature of loans
III.
RattanIndia Finance Private Limited
40.00
Advances in the 
nature of loans
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, there is no overdue amount for more than ninety days in respect of loans given as the period of repayment of 
interest has been extended by the Company during the current year. Further, in case of advances in the nature of loans as 
detailed in clause (c) above, the schedule for repayment of principal and payment of interest have not been stipulated and 
accordingly we are unable to comment on the amount overdue for more than ninety days.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, in our opinion following instances of loans falling due during the year were renewed or extended or settled by 
fresh loans:
Name of the parties
Aggregate amount of 
loans or advances in the 
nature of loans granted 
during the year
(Rupees in lacs)
Aggregate overdue 
amount settled by renewal 
or extension or by fresh 
loans granted to same 
parties 
(Rupees in lacs)
Percentage of the aggregate 
to the total loans or 
advances in the nature of 
loans granted during the 
year
Escorts Heart Institute 
and Research Centre 
Limited
8,202.61
8,202.61
93.60%
Adayu Mindfulness 
Limited
254.22
254.22
2.90%
Artistery Properties 
Private Limited
52.02
52.02
0.59%
Hospitalia Eastern Private 
Limited
250.00
250.00
2.85%
Fortis Healthstaff Limited
5.51
5.51
0.06%
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
221
	
(iv)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company, 
in respect of investments made and loans, guarantees and security given by the Company, in our opinion the provisions of 
Section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) have been complied with.
	
(v)	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the public. Accordingly, 
clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(vi)	 We have broadly reviewed the books of accounts maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the 
Central Government for maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect of its sales of goods and 
services provided by it and are of the opinion that prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and 
maintained. However, we have not carried out a detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether 
these are accurate or complete.
	
(vii)	 (a)	
The Company does not have liability in respect of Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added tax during the 
year since effective 1 July 2017, these statutory dues has been subsumed into GST.
	
	
	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, in our opinion, the undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees 
State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited 
with the appropriate authorities, though there have been slight delays in a few cases of Provident fund (PF) and 
National Pension Scheme (NPS).
	
	
	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State 
Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2025 for a 
period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
	
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, statutory dues relating to Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, 
Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues which have not been deposited on account of any dispute are as 
follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of the dues
Amount 
(Rupees 
in lacs)
Amount paid 
under protest 
(Rupee in 
lacs)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates
Forum where 
dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax and interest 
thereon
2,653.04
   2,445.41
AY 2012-13
Commissioner 
of Income tax 
(Appeal)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax (TDS) and 
interest thereon
505.17
 - 
AY 2013-14 and 
AY 2014-15
Commissioner 
of Income tax 
(Appeal)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax (TDS) and 
interest thereon
1,319.84
 - 
AY 2015-16
Commissioner 
of Income tax 
(Appeal)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax (TDS) and 
interest thereon
636.19
 - 
AY 2016-17
Income tax 
Appellate 
Tribunal, Delhi
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax (TDS) and 
interest thereon
616.29
 - 
AY 2017-18
Income tax 
Appellate 
Tribunal, Delhi
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
222
Name of the statute
Nature of the dues
Amount 
(Rupees 
in lacs)
Amount paid 
under protest 
(Rupee in 
lacs)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates
Forum where 
dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax and interest 
thereon
268.05
268.05 
AY 2020-21
Commissioner 
of Income tax 
(Appeal)
Punjab VAT Act, 2005
Value Added Tax
1,412.35
 - 
FY 2009-10
Supreme Court
Punjab VAT Act, 2005
Value Added Tax
2,208.82
 - 
FY 2010-11
Supreme Court
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
50.00
 - 
FY 2012-13
Customs Excise 
and Service 
Tax Appellate 
Tribunal 
(CESTAT)
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
294.00
 - 
FY 2008-09 to 
FY 2012-13
Customs Excise 
and Service 
Tax Appellate 
Tribunal 
(CESTAT)
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
2.59
0.19
FY 2016-17 and 
FY 2017-18
Customs Excise 
and Service 
Tax Appellate 
Tribunal 
(CESTAT)
The Central Goods and 
Services Act, 2017
Goods and Services Tax
172.00
7.72
FY 2017-18
GST Appellate 
Authority
The Central Goods and 
Services Act, 2017
Goods and Services Tax
12.86
0.68
FY 2019-20
GST Appellate 
Authority
	
(viii)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously 
unrecorded as income in the books of account, in the 
tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as 
income during the year.
(ix) 	 (a)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in 
the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not been 
declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial 
institution or government or government authority.
	
(c)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us by the management, term 
loans were applied for the purpose for which the 
loans were obtained.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on an overall examination of the 
standalone financial statements of the Company, we 
report that no funds raised on short-term basis have 
been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on an overall examination of the 
standalone financial statements of the Company, we 
report that the Company has not taken any funds 
from any entity or person on account of or to meet 
the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint 
ventures as defined under the Act.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
223
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the Company 
has raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiary as per details below:
Nature of loan 
taken
Name of lender
Amount of 
loan
(Amount in 
lacs)
Name of the 
subsidiary, 
joint venture, 
associate 
companies
Relationship
Details of 
security 
pledged
Remarks
Non-Convertible 
Debentures
Foreign portfolio 
investors
155,000
Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited (“Agilus”)
Subsidiary
28,663,794 
equity shares 
of Agilus
	
	
Further the Company has not defaulted in repayment of such loans raised.
(x) 	 (a)	
The Company has not raised any moneys by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments). Accordingly, clause 3(x)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not made 
any preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during 
the year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xi) 	 (a)	
During the course of our examination of the books 
and records of the Company and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, no fraud 
by the Company or on the Company has been 
noticed or reported during the year.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of 
the Act has been filed by the auditors in Form ADT-4 as 
prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
	
(c)	
We have taken into consideration the whistle blower 
complaints received by the Company during the year 
while determining the nature, timing and extent of 
our audit procedures.
(xii)	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the transactions with related 
parties are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of 
the Act, where applicable, and the details of the related 
party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone 
financial statements as required by the applicable 
accounting standards.
(xiv) 	(a)	
Based on information and explanations provided 
to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till date for the period under audit.
(xv)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 
192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
(b)	
The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the 
Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of 
the Order is not applicable.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, there is no core investment company 
within the Group (as per the provisions of the Core 
Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016). Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is 
not applicable. We have not, however, separately 
evaluated whether the information provided by the 
management is accurate and complete.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
224
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii)	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(xviii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xix)	 According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, other information accompanying the 
standalone financial statements, our knowledge of the 
Board of Directors and management plans and based 
on our examination of the evidence supporting the 
assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which 
causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists 
as on the date of the audit report that the Company is 
not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of 
balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period 
of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, 
state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability 
of the Company. We further state that our reporting is 
based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and 
we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all 
liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company 
as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount 
under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of the Act pursuant 
to any project. Accordingly, clauses 3(xx)(a) and 3(xx)(b) of 
the Order are not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Partner
Place: Gurugram 	
Membership No.: 076124
Date: 20 May 2025	
ICAI UDIN:25076124BMRJWG4473
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
225
to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements were established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH 
REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements include those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of 
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
OPINION
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements of Fortis Healthcare Limited (“the 
Company”) as of 31 March 2025 in conjunction with our audit 
of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the 
year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and such internal financial controls were operating 
effectively as at 31 March 2025, based on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the 
“Guidance Note”).
MANAGEMENT’S 
AND 
BOARD 
OF 
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable 
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNEXURE B TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FORTIS 
HEALTHCARE LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2025
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) 
of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(h) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of 
even date)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
226
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
INHERENT 
LIMITATIONS 
OF 
INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Partner
Place: Gurugram 	
Membership No.: 076124
Date: 20 May 2025	
ICAI UDIN:25076124BMRJWG4473
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
227
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET as at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
 March 31, 2025 
 (₹ in Lakhs) 
 As at 
 March 31, 2024
 (₹ in Lakhs) 
ASSETS
A. 
Non-current assets
(a)
Property, plant and equipment
5(i)(a)
 71,549.29 
 18,589.41 
(b)
Capital work-in-progress
5(i)(b)
 4,231.79 
 25,938.31 
(c)
Right-of-use assets
7(a)
 17,600.01 
 24,886.04 
(d)
Goodwill
5(ii)
 2,721.77 
 2,721.77 
(e)
Other intangible assets
5(iii)(a)
 626.11 
 533.83 
(f)
Intangible assets under development
5(iii)(b)
 7.41 
 82.36 
(g)
Financial assets
(i)
Investments in subsidiaries
5(iv)
 10,17,825.23 
 8,83,403.65 
(ii)
Loans
5(vi)
 1,669.20 
 1,605.17 
(iii)
Other financial assets
5(vii)
 87.84 
 97.37 
(h)
Deferred tax assets (net)
5(viii)(a)
 1,809.75 
 3,809.69 
(i)
Non-current tax assets (net)
5(ix)
 9,289.01 
 12,505.71 
(j)
Other non-current assets
5(x)
 33,495.90 
 368.38 
Total non-current assets (A)
 11,60,913.31 
 9,74,541.69 
B. 
Current assets
(a)
Inventories
5(xi)
 1,671.74 
 1,292.58 
(b)
Financial assets
(i)
Trade receivables
5(v)
 18,131.97 
 13,122.19 
(ii)
Cash and cash equivalents
5(xii)(a)
 4,896.09 
 2,055.27 
(iii)
Bank balances other than (ii) above
5(xii)(b)
 49.08 
 9,939.42 
(iv)
Loans
5(vi)
 8,623.29 
 16,099.27 
(v)
Other financial assets
5(vii)
 4,827.98 
 21,043.16 
(c)
Other current assets
5(x)
 792.85 
 597.69 
Total current assets (B)
 38,993.00 
 64,149.58 
Total assets (A+B)
 11,99,906.31 
 10,38,691.27 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
A. 
Equity
(a)
Equity share capital
5(xiii)
 75,495.81 
 75,495.81 
(b)
Other equity 
 8,31,904.44 
 8,33,220.66 
Total equity (A)
 9,07,400.25 
 9,08,716.47 
Liabilities
B.
Non-current liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i) 
Borrowings
5(xv)
 1,73,818.83 
 25,405.46 
(ii) 
Lease liabilities
7(a)
 16,271.15 
 25,990.37 
(b)
Provisions
5(xvii)
 2,946.02 
 2,565.79 
Total non-current liabilities (B)
 1,93,036.00 
 53,961.62 
C.
Current liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i) 
Borrowings
5(xv)
 4,039.87 
 6,155.07 
(ii)
Trade payables
5(xviii)
-Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 1,542.04 
 2,420.39 
-Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 65,408.93 
 49,434.14 
(iii)
Lease liabilities
7(a)
 9,723.00 
 8,391.16 
(iv)
Other financial liabilities
5(xvi)
 12,973.02 
 4,925.40 
(b)
Provisions
5(xvii)
 2,479.53 
 2,221.87 
(c)
Other current liabilities
5(xix)
 3,303.67 
 2,465.15 
Total current liabilities (C)
 99,470.06 
 76,013.18 
Total liabilities (B+C)
 2,92,506.06 
 1,29,974.80 
Total equity and liabilities (A+B+C)
 11,99,906.31 
 10,38,691.27 
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial statements
1-36
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
228
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS for the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Notes
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(₹ in Lakhs)
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
 (₹ in Lakhs) 
I
Revenue from operations
5(xx)
 1,44,588.57 
 1,18,142.30 
II
Other income
5(xxi)
 19,855.44 
 14,300.42 
III
Total income (I+II)
 1,64,444.01 
 1,32,442.72 
IV
Expenses
i)
Purchase of medical consumable and drugs
 38,388.53 
 30,907.00 
ii)
Changes in inventories of medical consumable and drugs
5(xxii)
 (379.16)
 199.37 
iii)
Employee benefits expense
5(xxiii)
 20,712.80 
 18,797.55 
iv)
Finance costs
5(xxiv)
 11,157.92 
 8,191.56 
v)
Depreciation and amortisation expense
5(xxv)
 11,292.23 
 10,098.27 
vi)
Other expenses
5(xxvi)
 60,316.05 
 48,957.67 
Total expenses (IV)
 1,41,488.37 
 1,17,151.42 
V
Profit before exceptional and tax item (III-IV)
 22,955.64 
 15,291.30 
VI
Exceptional (loss)/gain
5(xxvii)
 (11,514.28)
 9,364.73 
VII
Profit before tax (V-VI)
 11,441.36 
 24,656.03 
VIII Tax expense
5(viii)(b)
i)
Current tax
 3,014.19 
 2,796.71 
ii)
Deferred tax
 2,048.73 
 1,913.83 
Total tax expense (VIII)
 5,062.92 
 4,710.54 
IX
Profit for the year (VII-VIII)
 6,378.44 
 19,945.49 
Other comprehensive income
i)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
(a) 	 Remeasurements of the defined benefit liabilities
 (193.87)
 (50.80)
(b) 	 income tax related to items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
 48.79 
 17.75 
X
Total other comprehensive loss for the year (net of tax)
 (145.08)
 (33.05)
XI
Total comprehensive income for the year (IX+X)
 6,233.36 
 19,912.44 
Earnings per equity share of  10 each :
i)
Basic (in `)
5(xxviii)
 0.84 
 2.64 
ii)
Diluted (in `)
5(xxviii)
 0.84 
 2.64 
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial 
statements
1-36
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
229
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
 11,441.36 
 24,656.03 
Adjustments for:
Exceptional (loss)/gain
 11,514.28 
 (9,364.73)
Finance costs
 11,157.92 
 8,191.56 
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 (1.31)
 40.91 
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
 938.92 
 561.64 
Allowance for doubtful advances
 33.10 
 98.05 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 11,292.23 
 10,098.27 
Net gain & losses arising on financial assets designated at FVTPL
 (0.42)
 - 
Provision/liabilities no longer required written back
 (155.74)
 (261.76)
Interest income
 (12,826.24)
 (12,557.51)
Financial guarantee income
 - 
 (140.81)
Dividend from equity investments
 (7,022.84)
 (1,348.06)
 26,371.26 
 19,973.59 
Working capital adjustments
Increase in trade receivables
 (5,948.70)
 (3,858.90)
Increase in inventories
 (379.16)
 (33.46)
Increase in loans, other financial assets and other assets
 (207.72)
 (23.03)
Increase in other financial liabilities, provisions, other liabilities and trade payables
 13,363.81 
 8,092.72 
Cash generated from operating activities
 33,199.49 
 24,150.92 
Income taxes refund/(paid) (net)
 202.51 
 (2,306.06)
Net cash generated by operating activities
 33,402.00 
 21,844.86 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Amount received against investments
 - 
 13,597.15 
Redemption of investment 
 32,495.97 
 - 
Investment in subsidiaries
 - 
 (4,769.17)
Acquisition of stake in subsidiary (refer note 5(iv) )
 (1,77,773.83)
 - 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (36,519.67)
 (32,462.61)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 34.08 
 63.63 
Maturity/(investment) in bank deposits (net)
 9,888.47 
 (9,905.50)
Interest received
 28,378.00 
 21,744.18 
Loans repayment by subsidiaries
 7,640.77 
 35.00 
Loans granted to subsidiaries
 (177.50)
 (180.99)
Advance given for acqusition of business (refer note 35)
 (28,210.00)
 - 
Consideration received on sale of Arcot Road hospital (refer note 28)
 - 
 14,975.76 
Dividend from equity investments
 7,022.84 
 1,348.06 
Net cash (used in) /generated by investing activities
 (1,57,220.87)
 4,445.51 
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW for the year ended March 31, 2025
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
230
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (REFER NOTE 5(XIV))
Proceeds from non-current borrowings
 195.53 
 24,079.41 
Proceeds from issue of non-convertible debentures (refer note 36)
 1,55,000.00 
 - 
Repayment of current borrowings (net)
 (71.00)
 (6,825.00)
Dividend paid
 (7,534.42)
 (7,521.03)
Repayment of non-current borrowings
 (7,895.50)
 (22,874.22)
Finance costs paid** 
 (7,309.07)
 (8,159.49)
Principal payment of lease liabilities
 (4,794.99)
 (3,234.40)
Net cash (generated by) /used in financing activities
 1,27,590.55 
 (24,534.73)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
 3,771.68 
 1,755.64 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 537.17 
 (1,218.47)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
5(xii)(a)
 4,308.85 
 537.17 
**Including interest on lease liability ` 3,467.54 Lakhs and ` 4,565.39 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 respectively.
Notes:
(a)	
The standalone statement of cash flow has been prepared in accordance with “Indirect Method” as set out on Indian Accounting Standard -7 
on “Statement on Cash flows”	
	
	
	
	
	
(b) 	
The Company has paid ` 147.01 Lakhs for the year ended 31 March 2025 and ` 68.49 Lakhs for the year ended 31 March 2024 towards 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure.
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial statements     1-36
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow (Contd.)
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
231
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended March 31, 2025
A.	
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particular
No. in Lakhs
No. in Lakhs
Equity shares of ` 10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2023
 7,549.58 
 75,495.81 
Issue of share capital 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 7,549.58 
 75,495.81 
Issue of share capital 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 7,549.58 
 75,495.81 
B.	
OTHER EQUITY
Particular
Reserves and Surplus
Securities 
premium*
Retained 
earnings
Amalgamation 
reserve **
General 
Reserve ***
Total other 
equity
Balance as at April 01, 2023
 7,25,092.08  86,819.08 
 156.00 
 8,790.64  8,20,857.80 
Profit for the year
 -  19,945.49 
 - 
 - 
 19,945.49 
Other comprehensive loss for the year (net of 
income tax) 
 - 
 (33.05)
 - 
 - 
 (33.05)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 -  19,912.44 
 - 
 - 
 19,912.44 
Less: Dividend paid to shareholders
 - (7,549.58)
 - 
 - 
 (7,549.58)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 7,25,092.08  99,181.94 
 156.00 
 8,790.64  8,33,220.66 
Profit for the year
 - 
 6,378.44 
 - 
 - 
 6,378.44 
Other comprehensive loss for the year (net of 
income tax) 
 - 
 (145.08)
 - 
 - 
 (145.08)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 6,233.36 
 - 
 - 
 6,233.36 
Less: Dividend paid to shareholders
 -  (7,549.58)
 - 
 - 
 (7,549.58)
Balance at March 31, 2025
 7,25,092.08  97,865.72 
 156.00 
 8,790.64  8,31,904.44 
* 	
The unutilised accumulated excess of issue price over face value on issue of shares. This reserve is utilised in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
** 	 Amalgamation reserve represents the unutilised accumulated surplus created at the time of amalgamation of another 
company with the Company. This reserve is not available for distribution of dividend and is expected to remain invested 
permanently.
*** This represents appropriation of profit by the Company and is available for distribution of dividend.
See accompanying notes forming part of the           1-36
standalone financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
232
1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited (the ‘Company’ or ‘FHL’) (CIN : 
L85110PB1996PLC045933), a public limited company, 
was incorporated on February 28, 1996. Its equity shares 
are listed on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited. Its registered office is located at Fortis 
Hospital Sector-62 Phase-VIII, Mohali 160062, Punjab and 
the corporate office of the Company is located at Tower A, 
Unitech Business Park, Block - F South City - 1, Sector-41, 
Gurugram 122001, Haryana.
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited is a leading integrated healthcare 
delivery service provider. The Company is primarily 
engaged in the business of healthcare services. The 
Company also holds interests in its subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures which manage and operate a network 
of multi-specialty hospitals and diagnostics centers.
	
On November 13, 2018, IHH Healthcare Berhad, Malaysia 
acquired 31.10% stake in the Company and appointed 
majority of board of directors, thereby, becoming the 
controlling shareholder of the Company.
2.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements (‘financial statements’). The accounting 
policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous 
financial year.
(a)	 Basis of preparation
	
(i)	
Statement of compliance
	
	
These Standalone financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended 
from time to time, notified under Section 133 of 
Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”) and other relevant 
provisions of the Act. All the amounts included in the 
financial statements are reported in Lakhs of Indian 
Rupees and are rounded off to two decimals, except 
per share data.
	
	
The financial statements have been authorised for 
issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on May 
20, 2025.
	
(ii)	 Functional and presentation currency
	
	
These financial statements are presented in Indian 
Rupees, which is also the Company’s functional 
currency.
	
(iii)	 Basis of Measurement
	
	
The standalone financial statements have been 
prepared under historical cost convention on accrual 
basis except for the following items:
Item basis
Measurement
Net defined benefit 
(asset)/ liability
Fair value of plan assets 
less the present value 
of the defined benefit 
obligation
(b)	 Current versus non-current classification
	
Based on the time involved between the acquisition of 
assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash 
equivalents, the Company has identified twelve months 
as its operating cycle for determining current and non-
current classification of assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet.
(c)	
Measurement of fair values
	
A number of the accounting policies and disclosures 
require measurement of fair values, for both financial 
and non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair values are 
categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy 
based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as 
follows:
	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities.
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
	
The Company has an established control framework with 
respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a 
finance team that has overall responsibility for overseeing 
all significant fair value measurements, including Level 3 
fair values.
	
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, 
the Company uses observable market data as far as 
possible. If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an 
asset or a liability fall into different levels of the fair value 
hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised 
in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy 
as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire 
measurement. The Company recognises transfers between 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
233
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
(d)	 Business combinations
	
Business combinations (other than business combinations 
between common control entities) are accounted for 
using the purchase (acquisition) method. The cost 
of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the 
consideration transferred, equity instruments issued, and 
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
The consideration transferred does not include amounts 
related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships; 
such amounts are generally recognised in the Statements 
of Profit or Loss. The cost of acquisition also includes the 
fair value of any contingent consideration. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially 
at fair value at the date of acquisition. Transaction costs 
incurred in connection with a business combination are 
expensed as incurred. The excess of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of the net identifiable 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts 
are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets 
of the business acquired, the difference is recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity 
as capital reserve provided there is clear evidence of the 
underlying reasons for classifying the business combination 
as a bargain purchase.
	
Business combinations arising from transfers of interests 
in entities that are under the control of the shareholder 
that controls the Company are accounted for as if the 
acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the earliest 
comparative period presented or, if later, at the date 
that common control was established; for this purpose 
comparatives are revised. The assets and liabilities acquired 
are recognised at their carrying amounts. The identity of 
the reserves is preserved, and they appear in the financial 
statements of the Company in the same form in which 
they appeared in the financial statement of the acquired 
entity. The differences, if any, between the consideration 
and the amount of share capital of the acquired entity is 
transferred to capital reserve (if credit) or revenue reserves 
(if debit) and if there are no reserves or inadequate 
reserves, to an amalgamation deficit reserve (if debit), with 
disclosure of its nature and purpose in the notes to the 
consolidated financial statements.
(e)	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible 
assets
	
(i)	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Recognition & Measurement
	
	
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
shall be recognised as an asset if, and only if it is 
probable that future economic benefits associated 
with the item will flow to the Company and the cost 
of the item can be measured reliably.
	
	
Freehold land is carried at cost. All other items 
of property, plant and equipment are stated at 
cost, which includes capitalised finance costs, less 
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated 
impairment loss. The cost of an item of property, 
plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, 
including import duties and other non-refundable 
taxes or levies, freight, any directly attributable cost 
of bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use and estimated cost of dismantling and 
restoring onsite; any trade discounts and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price.
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will 
flow to the Company and the cost of the item 
can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of 
any component accounted for as a separate asset 
is recognised when replaced. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
	
Advances paid towards acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment outstanding at each Balance Sheet 
date, are shown under other non-current assets and 
cost of assets not ready for intended use before the 
year end, are shown as capital work-in-progress.
	
	
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and 
equipment have different useful lives, then they are 
accounted for as separate items (major Components) 
of property, plant and equipment.
	
(ii)	 Goodwill and other intangible assets
	
	
a)	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
	
•	
For measurement of goodwill that arises 
from business combination. Subsequent 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
234
measurement 
is 
at 
cost 
less 
any 
accumulated impairment losses.
	
	
	
•	
Internally generated goodwill is not 
recognised as an asset. With regard to 
other internally generated intangible 
assets:
	
	
	
	
-	
Expenditure on research activities, 
undertaken with the prospect of 
gaining new scientific or technical 
knowledge and understanding, is 
recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss as incurred.
	
	
	
	
-	
Development expenditure including 
regulatory cost and legal expenses 
leading 
to 
product 
registration/ 
market authorisation relating to 
the new and/or improved product 
and/or 
process 
development 
is 
capitalised 
only 
if 
development 
costs can be measured reliably, the 
product or process is technically 
and commercially feasible, future 
economic benefits are probable, 
and the Company intends to and 
has sufficient resources to complete 
development and to use the asset. 
The expenditure capitalised includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour, 
overhead costs that are directly 
attributable to preparing the asset 
for its intended use, and directly 
attributable finance costs (in the 
same manner as in the case of 
property, plant and equipment). 
Other development expenditure is 
recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss as incurred.
	
	
	
•	
Intangible assets acquired separately are 
measured on initial recognition at cost. 
The cost of intangible assets acquired in 
a business combination is recognised at 
fair value at the date of acquisition. An 
intangible asset is recognised only if it is 
probable that future economic benefits 
attributable to the asset will flow to 
the Company and the cost of the asset 
can be measured reliably. After initial 
recognition, 
other 
intangible 
assets, 
including those required by Company in a 
business combination and have finite lives 
are measured at cost less accumulated 
amortisation 
and 
any 
accumulated 
impairment loss.
	
	
b)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only 
when it increases the future economic benefits 
embodied in the specific asset to which it relates 
and the cost of the asset can be measured 
reliably. All other expenditure, including 
expenditure on internally generated goodwill 
and brands, is recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred.
	
	
c)	
Amortisation
	
	
	
Amortisation is calculated to write off the 
cost of intangible assets less their estimated 
residual values using the straight-line method 
over their estimated useful lives and is generally 
recognised in depreciation and amortisation in 
Statement of profit and loss. Goodwill is not 
amortised.
	
	
	
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual 
values are reviewed at each reporting date and 
adjusted if appropriate.
	
(iii)	 Depreciation 
and 
amortisation 
methods, 
estimated useful lives and residual value
	
	
Depreciation is provided on straight line basis on 
the original cost/ acquisition cost of assets or other 
amounts substituted for cost of property, plant and 
equipment as per the useful life specified in Part 
‘C’ of Schedule II of the Act, read with notification 
dated 29 August 2014 of the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, except for certain classes of property, plant 
and equipment which are depreciated based on the 
internal technical assessment of the management. 
The details of useful life are as under:
Category of assets
Management 
estimate of 
useful life
Useful life as 
per Schedule II
Building
60 years
60 years
Plant and machinery
3-15 years
15 years
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
235
Category of assets
Management 
estimate of 
useful life
Useful life as 
per Schedule II
Medical equipment
2-13 years
13 years
Computers
3 years
3 years
Furniture and fittings 
4-10 years
10 years
Office equipment
5 years
5 years
Vehicles
4-8 years
8 years
	
	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
	
	
Depreciation on leasehold assets is provided over 
the lease term or expected useful life of the asset, 
whichever is lower.
	
	
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that they might be 
impaired.
	
	
Estimated useful lives of other intangible assets are 
as follows:
Category of assets
Management 
estimate of 
Useful Life
Computer software
3-6 years
	
	
Depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets added/disposed off 
during the year has been provided on pro-rata basis 
with reference to the date of addition/disposal.
	
	
Depreciation and amortisation methods, useful lives 
and residual values are reviewed at the end of each 
reporting period and adjusted if appropriate.
	
(iv)	 Derecognition
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets are recognised on disposal or when no future 
economic benefits are expected from their use and 
disposal. Losses arising from retirement and gains or 
losses arising from disposal of a tangible asset are 
measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(f)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to recognised and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that they might 
be impaired. The Company’s non-financial assets other 
than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, 
then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
	
For impairment testing, assets that do not generate 
independent cash inflows (i.e. corporate assets) are 
grouped together into cash-generating units (CGUs). 
Each CGU represents the smallest group of assets that 
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the 
cash inflows of other assets or CGUs.
	
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its value 
in use and its fair value less costs to sell. Value in use is 
based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted 
to their present value using a discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the CGU.
	
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount 
of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable 
amount. Impairment loss recognised in respect of a CGU 
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the 
carrying amount of the other assets of the CGU (or group 
of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
	
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not 
subsequently reversed. In respect of other assets for which 
impairment loss has been recognised in prior periods, the 
Company reviews at reporting date whether there is any 
indication that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. 
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Such a reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(g)	 Financial instrument
	
A Financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity.
	
Financial assets
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
236
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery 
of assets within a time frame established by regulation 
or convention in the marketplace (regular way trades) 
are recognised on the trade date, i.e. the date that the 
Company commits to purchase or sell the asset.
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Trade receivables and debt securities issued are initially 
recognised when they are originated. All other financial 
assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised 
when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
	
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without 
a significant financing component) or financial liability is 
initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item 
not at FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to its acquisition or issue. A trade receivable without a 
significant financing component is initially measured at 
the transaction price.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets 
are classified in four categories:
	
•	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
•	
Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI)
	
•	
Debt instruments, derivatives and equity instruments 
at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
•	
Equity instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if 
the asset is held within a business model whose objective 
is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and 
contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. The effective interest 
rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash payments or receipts through the expected life of 
the financial instrument to the gross carrying amount of 
the financial asset or the amortised cost of the financial 
liability. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR recognised is 
included in other income in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss. This category generally 
applies to trade and other receivables.
	
Debt instrument at FVOCI
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVOCI if the 
objective of the business model is achieved both by 
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial 
assets, and the asset’s contractual cash flows represent 
SPPI.
	
Debt instruments included within the FVOCI category are 
measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair 
value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other 
comprehensive income (OCI). On derecognition of the 
asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI 
is reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss. Interest 
earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported 
as interest income using the EIR method.
	
Debt instrument at FVTPL
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any 
debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for 
recognised as at amortised cost or as FVOCI, is classified as 
at FVTPL. In addition, at initial recognition, the Company 
may irrevocably elect to designate a debt instrument, 
which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVOCI criteria, as 
at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing 
so reduces or eliminates a measurement or recognition 
inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are 
measured at fair value with all changes recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Equity investments
	
Equity investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled 
entities and associates are carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Where an indication of 
impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is 
assessed and written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount. On disposal of investments in such entities, the 
difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amounts are recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
237
	
All other equity investments which are in scope of Ind 
AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading and contingent consideration 
recognised by an acquirer in a business combination to 
which Ind AS 103 applies are classified as at FVTPL. For 
all other equity instruments in scope of Ind AS 109, the 
Company may make an irrevocable election to present 
in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in 
the fair value. The Company makes such election on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made 
on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
	
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as 
at FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognised in the OCI. There is 
no recycling of the amounts from OCI to the Statement 
of Profit and Loss, even on sale of investment. However, 
the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss to 
retained earnings.
	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are 
measured at fair value with all changes recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Dividend income from investments is recognised in 
statement of profit and loss on the date that the right to 
receive payment is established.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company recognises loss allowance using the expected 
credit loss (ECL) model for the financial assets which are 
not fair valued through profit or loss. Loss allowance for 
trade receivables with no significant financing component 
is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL. For all 
financial assets with contractual cash flows other than 
trade receivable, ECLs are measured at an amount equal 
to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk from initial recognition in which case 
those are measured at lifetime ECL. The amount of ECL (or 
reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the 
reporting date is recognised as an impairment gain or loss 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Credit-impaired financial assets
	
At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether 
financial assets carried at amortised cost and debt 
securities at FVOCI are credit-impaired. A financial asset 
is ‘credit-impaired’ when one or more events that have a 
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of 
the financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial 
asset is credit-impaired includes the following observable 
data:
	
•	
significant financial difficulty of the debtor;
	
•	
a breach of contract such as a default;
	
•	
the restructuring of a loan or advance by the 
Company on terms that the Company would not 
consider otherwise;
	
•	
it is probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or 
other financial recognised; or
	
•	
the disappearance of an active market for a security 
because of financial difficulties.
	
Presentation of allowance for ECL in the balance 
sheet
	
Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised 
cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the 
assets.
	
Derecognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial 
asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is 
primarily derecognised (i.e., removed from the Company’s 
balance sheet) when:
	
•	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have 
expired, or
	
•	
The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash 
flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation 
to pay the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ 
arrangement and either (a) the Company has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, or (b) the Company has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into 
a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Company continues to recognise the transferred 
asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing 
involvement. In that case, the Company also 
recognised an associated liability. The transferred 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
238
asset and the associated liability are measured on a 
basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the 
Company has retained.
	
	
Write off of financial assets
	
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is 
written off when the Company has no reasonable 
expectations of recovering a financial asset in its 
entirety or a portion thereof. The Company expects 
no significant recovery from the amount written off.
	
	
However, financial assets that are written off could 
still be subject to enforcement activities in order to 
comply with the Company’s procedures for recovery 
of amounts due.
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified as measured at 
amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified 
as at FVTPL if it is classified as held‑for‑trading, 
or it is a derivative or it is designated as such on 
initial recognition. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are 
measured at fair value and net gains and losses, 
including any interest expense, are recognised in 
Statement of Profit and Loss. Other financial liabilities 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. Interest expense and 
foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised 
in Statement of Profit and Loss. Any gain or loss 
on derecognition is also recognised in Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
Derecognition of financial liabilities
	
	
A financial liability is recognised when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced 
by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition of the 
original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
	
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently re-
measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as 
financial assets when the fair value is positive and as 
financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
	
Offsetting
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount presented in the Standalone 
Balance Sheet when, and only when, the Company 
currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the 
amounts and it intends either to settle them on a 
net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as 
a financial liability at the time the guarantee is 
issued. The liability is initially measured at fair value 
and subsequently at the higher of (i) the amount 
determined in accordance with the expected credit 
loss model as per Ind AS 109 and (ii) the amount 
initially 
recognised 
less, 
where 
appropriate, 
cumulative amount of income recognised in 
accordance with the principles of Ind AS 115.
	
	
The fair value of financial guarantees is determined 
based on the present value of the difference in cash 
flows between the contractual payments required 
under the debt instrument and the payments that 
would be required without the guarantee, or the 
estimated amount that would be payable to a third 
party for assuming the obligations.
	
	
Where guarantees in relation to loans or other payables 
of subsidiaries are provided for no compensation by 
the Holding Company, the fair values are accounted 
for as a deemed equity contribution (under the head 
‘Investment in subsidiaries’) in the books of Holding 
Company and as a part of ‘Other Equity’ in the books 
of subsidiary.
	
	
Where guarantees in relation to loans or other 
payables of the Holding Company are provided by 
subsidiary for no compensation, the fair values are 
accounted for as a distribution and recognised under 
the head ‘Other Equity’ in the books of subsidiary 
and credited to statement of profit and loss in the 
books of holding company.
(h)	 Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net recognised 
value except scrap, which is valued at net estimated 
recognised value.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
239
	
The Company uses weighted average method to 
determine cost for all categories of inventories except for 
goods in transit which is valued at specifically identified 
purchase cost and other direct costs incurred. Cost 
includes all costs of purchase, and other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition inclusive of non-refundable (adjustable) taxes 
wherever applicable.
	
Net recognised value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs 
necessary to make the sale. The comparison of cost and 
net recognised value is made on an item-by-item basis.
(i)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand 
deposits with banks and other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or 
less.
	
For the purpose of cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalent includes cash in hand, in banks, demand 
deposits with banks and other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months 
or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts that are 
repayable on demand and are considered part of the cash 
management system.
(j)	
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events beyond the control of the Company or a 
present obligation that is not recognised because it is not 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases where there is a liability that 
cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured 
reliably. The Company does not recognise a contingent 
liability but discloses its existence in the standalone 
financial statements unless the possibility of an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits is remote. 
Contingent liabilities and commitments are reviewed by 
the management at each balance sheet date.
	
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial 
statements. However, contingent assets are assessed 
continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of 
economic benefits will arise, the asset and related income 
are recognised in the period in which the change occurs.
(k)	 Provisions
	
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the 
Company has a present legal or constructive obligation 
that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation. If the effect of the time value of money 
is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is 
used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the present 
obligation at reporting date, taking into account the 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When 
some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a 
provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, 
the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually 
certain that reimbursement will be received, and the 
amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
	
A contract is considered to be onerous when the expected 
economic benefits to be derived by the Company from the 
contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting 
its obligations under the contract. The provision for an 
onerous contract is measured at the present value of the 
lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract 
and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. 
Before such a provision is made, the Company recognised 
any impairment loss on the assets associated with that 
contract.
	
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no 
longer probable that the outflow of resources would be 
required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed.
(l)	
Revenue recognition
	
Revenue primarily comprises fees charged under contract 
for inpatient and outpatient hospital services and also 
includes sale of products comprising medical and non-
medical items and Management fees from hospitals. 
Hospital services include charges for accommodation, 
medical professional services, equipment, radiology, 
laboratory and pharmaceutical goods used in treatments 
given to patients.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
240
	
Contracts with customers could include promises to transfer 
multiple services/ products to a customer. The Company 
assesses the product/ services promised in a contract and 
identifies distinct performance obligation in the contract. 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation 
is measured at the amount of transaction price (net of 
variable consideration) allocated to that performance 
obligation. The transaction price of services rendered and 
goods sold ifs net of variable consideration on account of 
various discounts and schemes offered by the Company 
as part of the contract including claims. Further, the 
Company also determines whether the performance 
obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period 
of time. These judgments and estimations are based on 
various factors including contractual terms and historical 
experience.
	
Revenue from in patient hospital services and Management 
fees from hospitals is recognised over the period of time, 
as and when services are performed. Revenue from 
outpatient hospital services is recognised at a point in time 
when patient has actually received the service. Revenue 
from sale of products is recognised at the point in time 
upon transfer of control of products to customers at the 
time of delivery of goods to the customers.
	
Revenue includes only those sales for which the Company 
has acted as a principal in the transaction, takes title to 
the products, and has the risks and rewards of ownership, 
including the risk of loss for collection, delivery and 
returns. Any revenue transaction for which the Company 
has acted as an agent or broker without assuming the 
risks and rewards of ownership have been reported on a 
net basis.
	
Excess of revenue earned over billings on contracts is 
recognised as unbilled revenue. Unbilled revenue is 
classified as Trade receivables when there is unconditional 
right to receive cash, and only passage of time is required, 
as per contractual terms. Unearned and deferred revenue 
(“contract liability”) is recognised as other current liability 
when there is billings in excess of revenues.
	
Other operating revenue comprises revenue from various 
ancillary revenue generating activities like sponsorship 
arrangements and academic services which is recognised 
over the period of time, in accordance with the terms 
of the relevant agreements, as and when services are 
performed.
(m)	 Employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefits
	
All employee benefits falling due within twelve months 
of the end of the period in which the employees render 
the related services are classified as short-term employee 
benefits, which include benefits like salaries, wages, short 
term compensated absences, performance incentives, etc. 
and are recognised as expenses in the period in which 
the employee renders the related service and measured 
accordingly. Short term employee benefits are measured 
on an undiscounted basis.
	
Post-employment benefits
	
Post-employment benefit plans are classified into defined 
benefits plans and defined contribution plans as under:
	
a)	
Gratuity
	
	
The Company has an obligation towards gratuity, 
a defined benefit retirement plan covering eligible 
employees. The plan provides for a lump sum 
payment to vested employees at retirement, 
death while in employment or on termination of 
employment of an amount based on the respective 
employee’s salary and the tenure of employment. 
The liability in respect of gratuity is recognised in the 
books of account based on actuarial valuation by an 
independent actuary.
	
b)	
Superannuation
	
	
Certain employees of the Company are also 
participants in the superannuation plan (‘the Plan’), a 
defined contribution plan. Contribution made by the 
Company to the plan during the year is charged to 
statement of profit and loss.
	
c)	
Provident fund
	
	
The Company makes contribution to the recognised 
provident fund – “ Fortis Healthcare Limited 
Provident Fund Trust “ for most of its employees in 
India, which is a defined benefit plan to the extent 
that the Company has an obligation to make good 
the shortfall, if any, between the return from the 
investments of the trust and the notified interest 
rate. The Company’s obligation in this regard is 
determined by an independent actuary and provided 
for if the circumstances indicate that the Trust may 
not be able to generate adequate returns to cover 
the interest rates notified by the Government.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
241
	
	
During the previous year, the Company has 
surrendered the recognition granted to the PF Trust 
in the name of Fortis Healthcare Limited Provident 
Fund Trust (FHL PF Trust) with effect from August 
01, 2023. Accordingly, the entire corpus in respect 
of all the active and inactive employees has been 
transferred to the office of Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner (RPFC), Delhi (South).
	
	
For other employees in India, provident fund 
is 
deposited 
with 
Regional 
Provident 
Fund 
Commissioner. This is treated as defined contribution 
plan.
	
	
The Company’s contribution to the provident fund is 
charged to statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Other long-term employee benefits:
	
	
As per the Company’s policy, eligible leaves can be 
accumulated by the employees and carried forward 
to future periods to either be recognised during 
the service, or encashed. Encashment can be made 
during service, on early retirement, on withdrawal 
of scheme, at resignation and upon death of the 
employee. Accumulated compensated absences are 
treated as other long-term employee benefits.
	
	
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense 
when, as a result of a past event, the Company has a 
present obligation that can be estimated reliably, and 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation.
	
	
Actuarial valuation
	
	
The liability in respect of all defined benefit plans and 
other long-term benefits is accrued in the books of 
account on the basis of actuarial valuation carried 
out by an independent actuary using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method. The obligation is measured at 
the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
The discount rates used for determining the present 
value of obligation under defined benefit plans, is 
based on the market yields on Government securities 
as at the Balance Sheet date, having maturity periods 
approximating to the terms of related obligations.
	
	
Remeasurement gains and losses on other long-term 
benefits are recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss in the year in which they arise. Remeasurement 
gains and losses in respect of all defined benefit 
plans arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised 
in the period in which they occur, directly in other 
comprehensive 
income. 
They 
are 
recognised 
immediately in the Statement of Changes in Equity 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through OCI in the period in which they 
occur. Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments 
or curtailments are recognised immediately in profit 
or loss as past service cost. Gains or losses on the 
curtailment or settlement of any defined benefit plan 
are recognised when the curtailment or settlement 
occurs. Any differential between the plan assets (for a 
funded defined benefit plan) and the defined benefit 
obligation as per actuarial valuation is recognised as 
a liability if it is a deficit or as an asset if it is a surplus 
(to the extent of the lower of present value of any 
economic benefits available in the form of refunds 
from the plan or reduction in future contribution to 
the plan).
	
	
Past service cost is recognised as an expense in the 
statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis 
over the average period until the benefits become 
vested. To the extent that the benefits are already 
vested immediately following the introduction of, or 
changes to, a defined benefit plan, the past service 
cost is recognised immediately in the statement 
of profit and loss. Past service cost may be either 
positive (where benefits are introduced or improved) 
or negative (where existing benefits are reduced).
(n)	 Share-based payments
	
The grant date fair value of options granted (net of 
estimated forfeiture) to employees of the Company is 
recognised as an employee benefits expense, and those 
granted to employees of subsidiaries is considered as 
the Company’s equity contribution and is added to the 
carrying value of investment in the respective subsidiaries, 
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period 
that the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
the options. The expense is recorded for each separately 
vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in 
substance, multiple awards. The increase in equity 
recognised in connection with share-based payment 
transaction is presented as a separate component in equity 
under “share option outstanding account”. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
242
number of stock options that vest. For the option awards, 
grant date fair value is determined under the option-
pricing model (Black-Scholes-Merton). Forfeitures are 
estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, 
in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures materially differ 
from those estimates.
	
Corresponding balance of share-based payment reserve is 
transferred to general reserve upon expiry of grants.
(o)	  Income tax
	
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised in Statement of profit and loss except to 
the extent that it relates to a business combination, or 
items recognised directly in equity or in OCI. Interest and 
penalties related to income taxes, including uncertain 
tax treatments, do not meet the definition of income 
taxes, and therefore accounted for them under Ind AS 37 
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
	
Current taxes
	
Current tax comprises the best estimate of expected tax 
payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the 
year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable 
in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax 
payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax 
amount expected to be paid or received after considering 
uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. It is measured 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset 
only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the 
recognised amounts, and it is intended to realise the asset 
and settle the liability on a net basis or simultaneously.
	
Deferred taxes
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is also recognised 
in respect of carried forward tax losses and tax credits. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for:
	
–	
temporary differences arising on the initial recognition 
of assets or liabilities in a transaction that
	
	
•	
is not a business combination; and
	
	
•	
at the time of transaction (i) affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit or loss and (ii) does 
not give rise to equal taxable and deductible 
temporary differences
	
–	
temporary differences related to investments in 
subsidiaries, associates or joint arrangements, to the 
extent that the Company is able to control the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future; and
	
–	
taxable temporary differences arising on the initial 
recognition of goodwill.
	
Deferred tax assets (DTA) include Minimum Alternate Tax 
(MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, which 
is likely to give future economic benefits in the form of 
availability of set off against future income tax liability.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, 
unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which they can be used. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date 
and recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which 
they can be used. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to be applied to the period when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date. The measurement of deferred tax reflects 
the tax consequences that would follow from the manner 
in which the Company expects, at the reporting date, to 
recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and 
liabilities.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised 
amounts, and it is intended to realise the asset and settle 
the liability on a net basis or simultaneously.
(p)	 Leases
	
At inception of a contract, the Company assesses whether 
a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains 
, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset, the 
Company assesses whether:
	
•	
 the contract involves the use of an identified asset 
– this may be specified explicitly or implicitly and 
should be physically distinct or represent substantially 
all of the capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the 
supplier has a substantive substitution right, then 
the asset is not identified;
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
243
	
•	
 the Company has the right to obtain substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the asset 
through the period of use; and
	
•	
 the Company has the right to direct the use of 
the asset. The Company has this right when it has 
the decision- making rights that are most relevant 
to changing how and for what purpose the asset 
is used. In rare cases, where the decision about 
how and for what purpose the asset is used is 
predetermined, the Company has the right to direct 
the use of the asset if either:
	
•	
the Company has the right to operate the asset; or
	
•	
the Company designed the asset in a way that 
predetermines how and for what purpose it will be 
used
	
An entity shall reassess whether a contract is, or contains, 
a lease only if the terms and conditions of the contract are 
changed.
	
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that 
contains a lease component, the Company allocates the 
consideration in the contract to each lease component on 
the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for 
the leases of land and buildings in which it is a lessee, 
the Company has elected not to separate non- lease 
components and account for the lease and non-lease 
components as a single lease component.
	
The Company determines its incremental borrowing rate 
by obtaining interest rates from various external financing 
sources and makes certain adjustments to reflect the 
terms of the lease and type of the asset leased.
	
(i) 	 As a lessee
	
	
The Company accounts for assets taken under lease 
arrangement in the following manner:
	
	
The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a 
lease liability at the lease commencement date. The 
right of use asset is initially measured at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date, plus any initial direct 
costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle 
and remove the underlying asset or to restore the 
underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less 
any lease incentive received.
	
	
The right of use asset is subsequently depreciated using 
the straight-line method from the commencement 
date to the end of the lease term. The estimated 
useful lives of right-of-use are determined on the 
same basis as those of property and equipment. In 
addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced 
by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain 
remeasurements of the lease liability.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at the present 
value of the lease payments that are not paid at 
the commencement date, discounted using the 
Company’s incremental borrowing rate.
	
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability comprise the fixed payments, including 
in-substance fixed payments.
	
	
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. It is remeasured when 
there is a change in future lease payments arising 
from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change 
in Company’s estimate of the amount expected to be 
payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the 
Company changes its assessment of whether it will 
exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.
	
	
When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, 
a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in 
profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-
use asset has been reduced to zero.
	
	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
	
The Company has elected not to recognise right-of 
use assets and lease liabilities for short term leases that 
have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of 
low value assets. The Company recognises the lease 
payments associated with these leases as an expense 
on a straight- line basis over the lease term.
	
(ii) 	 As a lessor
	
	
The Company accounts for assets given under lease 
arrangement in the following manner:
	
	
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and 
rewards of ownership are not transferred to the 
Company as lessee are classified as operating leases. 
Assets subject to operating leases are included in 
Property, Plant and Equipment. Rental income on 
operating lease is recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
244
	
	
Costs, including depreciation, are recognised as an 
expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Initial 
direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an 
operating lease are added to the carrying amount of 
the leased assets and recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
	
	
Leases are classified as finance leases when 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
transfer from the Company to the lessee. Amounts 
due from lessees under finance leases are recorded 
as receivables at the Company’s net investment 
in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to 
accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic 
rate of return on the net investment outstanding in 
respect of the lease.
(q)	 Foreign currency translation
	
Transactions and balances
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the date 
of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at balance sheet date 
exchange rates are generally recognised in Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at 
the date when the fair value was determined. Translation 
differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair value are 
reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. For example, 
translation differences on non-monetary assets such as 
equity investments classified as FVOCI are recognised in 
other comprehensive income (OCI).
(r)	
Borrowing costs
	
Finance costs consist of interest and other costs that an 
entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds 
including interest expense on lease liability. Finance 
cost also includes exchange differences to the extent 
regarded as an adjustment to the finance costs. General 
and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable 
to the construction or production or development of a 
qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that 
asset. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a 
substantial period of time to get ready for their intended 
use or sale. All other finance costs are expensed in the 
period in which they occur.
	
Investment income earned on the temporary investment 
of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on 
qualifying assets is deducted from the finance costs eligible 
for capitalisation. Ancillary costs incurred in connection 
with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over 
the period of such borrowings.
(s)	
Statement of Cash flow
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby net profit before tax is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of a non-cash nature and any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments. 
The cash flows from operating, investing and financing 
activities of the Company are segregated. The Company 
considers all highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash to be cash 
equivalents.
(t)	
Operating Segments
	
An operating segment is a component of the Company 
that engages in business activities from which it may 
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues 
and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the 
Company’s other components, and for which discrete 
financial information is available. Operating segments 
are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(“CODM”). Revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, 
which are common to the enterprise as a whole and are 
not allocable to segments on a reasonable basis, have 
been treated as “unallocated revenues/ expenses/ assets/ 
liabilities”, as the case may be.
	
The Company is primarily engaged in the business of 
healthcare services which is the only reportable segment.
(u)	 Earnings per share
	
(i)	
Basic earnings per share
	
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
	
	
•	
the profit/ (loss) attributable to owners of the 
Company
	
	
•	
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the financial year, 
adjusted for bonus elements in equity shares 
issued during the year.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
245
	
(ii)	 Diluted earnings per share
	
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
	
	
•	
the after-income tax effect of interest and 
other financing costs associated with dilutive 
potential equity shares, and
	
	
•	
the weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been outstanding 
assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
(v)	 Exceptional items
	
On certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an item 
of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary activities 
of the Company is such that its disclosure improves the 
understanding of the performance of the Company. Such 
income or expense is classified as an exceptional item 
and accordingly, disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements.
3.
CRITICAL ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
requires management to make judgments, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of accounting 
policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and in any future periods affected.
	
Judgements
	
Information about judgements made in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant effects 
on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is 
included in the following notes:
	
•	
Leasing arrangement (classification) – Note 7
	
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties
	
Information 
about 
assumptions 
and 
estimation 
uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a 
material adjustment is included in the following notes:
	
•	
Leasing arrangement (accounting) – Note 7
	
•	
Financial instruments - Note 13
	
•	
Fair value measurement – Note 14
	
•	
Estimated impairment of financial assets and non-
financial assets – Note 5(iv), 5(v), 5(vi), 5(vii) and 
5(xxvii)
	
•	
Measurement of ECL allowance for trade receivables 
and other assets – Note 2(g)
	
•	
Recognition and measurement of contingency: Key 
assumption about the likelihood and magnitude of 
an outflow of resources – Note 11, 20, 21 and 22
	
•	
Recognition and estimation of tax expense including 
deferred tax– Note 5(viii)(a) and 5(viii)(b)
	
•	
Assessment of useful life and residual value of 
property, plant and equipment and intangible asset 
– Note 2(e)(iii)
	
•	
Estimation of assets and obligations relating to 
employee benefits (including actuarial assumptions) 
– Note 12
4.
RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. On 7 May 2025, MCA issued the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2025, which made certain amendments to Ind 
AS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates, effective from 1 April 2025. These amendments 
define currency exchangeability and include guidance 
on estimating spot exchange rates when a currency is 
not exchangeable. The Company does not expect this 
amendment to have any significant impact in its financial 
statements.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
246
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(i)(a)
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Freehold 
land
Building
(on 
Leasehold 
Land)
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant & 
machinery
Medical 
equipment
Furniture 
& fittings
Computers
Office 
equipment
Vehicles
Total
GROSS CARRYING AMOUNT
As at April 01, 2023
 10.09 
 - 
 91.64 
 890.50 
 23,839.21 
 671.81 
 1,052.99 
 508.33 
 485.18 
 27,549.75 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78.74 
 6,443.19 
 121.40 
 830.49 
 100.61 
 115.11 
 7,689.54 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (27.63)
 (833.04)
 (44.24)
 (144.84)
 (30.06)
 (187.59)
 (1,267.40)
As at March 31, 2024
 10.09 
 91.64 
 941.61 
 29,449.36 
 748.97 
 1,738.64 
 578.88 
 412.70 
 33,971.89 
Additions
20,712.43 
 18,356.12 
 - 
 611.44 
 15,816.35 
 210.90 
 671.10 
 133.97 
 249.70 
 56,762.01 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (50.88)
 (540.83)
 (15.80)
 (133.76)
 (17.02)
 (60.10)
 (818.39)
As at March 31, 2025
20,722.52 
 18,356.12 
 91.64 
 1,502.17 
 44,724.88 
 944.07 
 2,275.98 
 695.83 
 602.30 
 89,915.51 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 
As at April 01, 2023
 - 
 - 
 91.64 
 530.05 
 11,697.81 
 428.49 
 674.12 
 274.18 
 258.23 
 13,954.52 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 51.26 
 1,987.31 
 50.77 
 318.91 
 72.48 
 110.09 
 2,590.82 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (19.90)
 (773.50)
 (43.30)
 (143.59)
 (27.75)
 (154.82)
 (1,162.86)
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 - 
 91.64 
 561.41 
 12,911.62 
 435.96 
 849.44 
 318.91 
 213.50 
 15,382.48 
Charge for the year
 - 
 314.32 
 - 
 74.29 
 2,578.10 
 60.48 
 529.50 
 90.35 
 122.32 
 3,769.36 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (36.63)
 (528.28)
 (14.83)
 (133.34)
 (16.95)
 (55.59)
 (785.62)
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 314.32 
 91.64 
 599.07 
 14,961.44 
 481.61 
 1,245.60 
 392.31 
 280.23 
 18,366.22 
Carrying value (As at March 31, 2024)
 10.09 
 - 
 - 
 380.20 
 16,537.74 
 313.01 
 889.20 
 259.97 
 199.20 
 18,589.41 
Carrying value (As at March 31, 2025)
20,722.52 
 18,041.80 
 - 
 903.10 
 29,763.44 
 462.46 
 1,030.38 
 303.52 
 322.07 
 71,549.29 
	
	
Notes:
	
	
(a) 	 Certain assets included under Property, plant and equipment are held as pledge against loans taken by the Company [refer note 8(i)].
	
	
(b) 	 The Company does not have any immovable property, whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company and no immovable property is 
jointly held with others.
	
	
c) 	
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment during the year ended March 31, 2025 and previous year ended March 31, 2024.
	
	
(d) 	 The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for holding any 
Benami property.
	
	
(e) 	 Certain assets have been given on lease [refer note 7(b)].
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
247
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(i)(b)
CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance 
 25,938.31 
 266.82 
Additions during the year*
 35,055.49 
 33,361.03 
Less : Amount capitalised during the year*
 56,762.01 
 7,689.54 
Closing Balance (net of provision for impairment of ` 2,569.90 Lakhs [refer 
note 21(C)(ii)])*
 4,231.79 
 25,938.31 
	
	
*The Company accounts for all capitalisation of property, plant and equipment through capital work in progress and 
therefore the movement in capital work in progress is the difference between closing and opening balance of capital work 
in progress as adjusted for additions to property, plant and equipment.
	
	
Note : During the previous year, the Company has acquired a multi-speciality hospital situated in Manesar, Gurugram, 
Haryana (Medeor Hospital) for an overall purchase consideration of ` 22,500 Lakhs (excluding stamp duty and other 
charges).
	
	
Ageing schedule
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 691.62 
 3,538.81 
 1.36 
 - 
 4,231.79 
Total
 691.62 
 3,538.81 
 1.36 
 - 
 4,231.79 
Detail of project which completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compare to its original plan :
Capital work-in-progress
Expected to be completed in
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Manesar hospital project
 3,928.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,928.71 
Total
 3,928.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,928.71 
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
Capital work-in-progress
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 25,938.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25,938.31 
Total
 25,938.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25,938.31 
There is no project whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at March 31, 
2024
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
248
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(ii)
GOODWILL
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
 Goodwill
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
 3,292.57 
Additions
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 3,292.57 
Additions
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 3,292.57 
Impairment
As at April 01, 2023
 (570.80)
Impairment during the year
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 (570.80)
Impairment during the year
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 (570.80)
Net Carrying Value
As at March 31, 2024
 2,721.77 
As at March 31, 2025
 2,721.77 
	
	
At cash generating unit (CGUs) level, the goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the year-end or more frequently if there 
are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The entire goodwill balance is allocated to Fortis Hospitals Shalimar Bagh.
	
	
The Company made an assessment of recoverable amount of the CGUs based on value-in-use calculations which uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management. The fair value measurements were categorised as a Level 3 
fair value based on the inputs in the valuation technique used. Cash flow projections were developed covering a seven-year 
period as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 which reflects a more appropriate indication/trend of future track of business 
of the Company. Cash flows beyond the seven-year period were extrapolated using estimate rates stated below.
	
	
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected 
changes to selling prices and direct costs during the year. Management estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that 
reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are based 
on industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future 
changes in the market.
	
	
Key assumptions used for value in use calculations are as follows:
As at
March 31, 2025
(p.a.)
As at
March 31, 2024
(p.a.)
Revenue growth rate for seven-year period
4% - 6%
4% - 5%
Growth rate used for extrapolation of cash flow projections beyond seven-
year period (refer note below)
4.00%
4.00%
Discount rate (Post tax rate)
11.31%
14.12%
Discount rate (Pre tax rate)
15.11%
21.70%
	
	
Management believes that any reasonable possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying 
amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
	
	
Discount rates - Management estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the 
risks specific to the CGU, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that 
have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances 
of the Company and its operating segments and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
	
	
Growth rates - The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Management determines the budgeted growth 
rates based on past performance and its expectations of market development. The weighted average growth rates used 
were consistent with industry reports. 	
	
	
	
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
249
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(iii)(a) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
 Computer 
Software
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01,2023
 3,226.50 
Additions
 58.43 
Disposals
 - 
As at March 31,2024
 3,284.93 
Additions
 329.12 
Disposals
 (103.59)
As at March 31,2025
 3,510.46 
Accumulated amortisation 
As at April 01,2023
 2,536.01 
Charge for the year
 215.09 
Disposals
 - 
As at March 31,2024
 2,751.10 
Charge for the year
 236.84 
Disposals
 (103.59)
As at March 31,2025
 2,884.35 
Carrying value
As at March 31,2024
 533.83 
As at March 31,2025
 626.11 
5(iii)(b) INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance 
 82.36 
 - 
Additions during the year*
 254.17 
 140.79 
Less : Amount capitalised during the year*
 329.12 
 58.43 
Closing Balance*
 7.41 
 82.36 
	
	
*The Company accounts for all capitalisation of intangible assets through intangible assets under development and 
therefore the movement in intangible assets under development is the difference between closing and opening balance of 
intangible assets under development as adjusted for additions to intangible assets.
	
	
Ageing schedule
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount in Intangible assets under development 
for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 7.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.41 
Total
 7.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.41 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
250
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount in Intangible assets under development 
for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 82.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 82.36 
Total
 82.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 82.36 
	
	
There is no project whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024.
5(iv)
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current
Unquoted investment
(a) 
Investments in equity instruments - at cost
i)
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited *
 76,919.72 
 76,919.72 
(2,161,117 (2,161,117 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of ` 10 each)
[Of the above, 50 (50 as at March 31, 2024) equity shares are held by 
nominee share holders)]
ii)
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme 
Limited)
 5.00 
 5.00 
[(50,000 (50,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of ` 10 each)]
[(Of the above, 6 shares (6 shares as at March 31, 2024) are held jointly 
with individual share holders)]
iii)
Fortis Healthcare International Limited, Mauritius *
 15,105.47 
 15,105.47 
[(98,560,000 (98,560,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of US$ 
0.32 each] 
iv)
Fortis Hospitals Limited *
 1,10,995.27 
 1,10,995.27 
[(66,987,576 (66,987,576 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of 
` 10 each)] 
[Of the above, 6 shares (6 as at March 31, 2024) are held jointly with 
individual share holders)]
v)
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited *
 13,021.28 
 13,021.28 
[(5,613,300 (5,613,300 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of ` 10 
each)]
[(Of the above, 6 shares (6 as at March 31, 2024) are held jointly with 
share holders)]
vi)
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (formerly known as SRL Limited)**
 2,68,679.31 
 90,905.48 
[(69,955,054 (45,236,779 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of 
` 10 each)]
vii)
Fortis Hospotel Limited
 2,43,016.88 
 2,43,016.88 
(417,222,782 (417,222,782 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of 
` 10 each)
[of the above, 6 shares (6 as at March 31, 2024) are held by nominee 
shareholders )]
viii)
Fortis CSR Foundation
 5.00 
 5.00 
[(50,000 (50,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of ` 10 each)]
[(Of the above, 6 shares (6 as at March 31, 2024) are held with nominee 
share holders)]
5(iii)(b) INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
251
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
ix)
Fortis Health Management Limited
 856.60 
 856.60 
(1,300,000 (1,300,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of ` 10 
each)
x)
International Hospital Limited
 2,07,657.21 
 2,07,657.21 
(26,627,304 (26,627,304 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of 
` 100 each)
xi)
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
 40,625.51 
 40,625.51 
(16,480,000 (16,480,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of ` 10 
each)
xii)
Artistery Properties Private Limited
 3,199.99 
 3,199.99 
[(319,99,990 (319,99,990 as at March 31, 2024) Equity Shares of 
` 10 each)]
[(excluding, 10 shares held by an individual (10 as at March 31, 2024) 
over which company has ownership/control through the share purchase 
agreement)]
Less: Impairment of investment :
	
- Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme 
Limited)
 (5.00)
 (5.00)
	
- Fortis Healthcare International Limited, Mauritius (refer note 
15(b))
 (8,738.35)
 (1,333.23)
 9,71,343.89 
 8,00,975.18 
(b) 
Investments in debt instrument - at amortised cost
i)
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited (Refer note 6)
 - 
 31,304.01 
Nil (3,130,400 as at March 31, 2024) 14.80% Non-Convertible Bonds 
of face value of ` 1,000 each.
ii)
Fortis Health Management Limited (Refer note 6)
 - 
 1,191.96 
Nil (116,000 as at March 31, 2024) 14.30 % Non-Convertible Bonds of 
face value of ` 1,000 each.
iii)
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
 7,172.50 
 7,172.50 
700,000 (700,000 as at March 31, 2024) 13.15 % Non-Convertible 
Bonds of face value of ` 1,000 each.
iv)
International Hospital Limited
 12,050.00 
 12,050.00 
1,205,000 (1,205,000 as at March 31, 2024) 14.30 % Non-Convertible 
Bonds of face value of ` 1,000 each
v)
International Hospital Limited
 12,960.00 
 12,960.00 
1,296,000 (1,296,000 as at March 31, 2024) 14.20 % Non-Convertible 
Bonds of face value of ` 1,000 each.
vi)
International Hospital Limited
 17,750.00 
 17,750.00 
1,775,000 (1,775,000 as at March 31, 2024) 13.15 % Non-Convertible 
Bonds of face value of ` 1,000 each.
vii)
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme 
Limited)
 2.00 
 2.00 
[20,000 (20,000 as at March 31, 2024) 10.00% redeemable preference 
shares of ` 10 each]
Less: Impairment of investment :
- Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme 
Limited)
 (2.00)
 (2.00)
- Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited (refer note 15(c))
 (3,451.16)
 - 
 46,481.34 
 82,430.47 
5(iv)
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
252
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted non-current investments 
in subsidiaries
 10,17,825.23 
 8,83,405.65 
Aggregate gross value of unquoted investments in subsidiaries
 10,30,021.74 
 8,84,745.88 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments in 
subsidiaries
 12,196.51 
 1,340.23 
**28,663,794 equity shares held by company  in Agilus Diagnostics Limited are pledged against the NCDs (Refer 
Note 36)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
*The Company had determined the fair value of guarantee given to banks on behalf of the subsidiary companies and 
debited the cumulative amount to investment in earlier years. Refer below for the break up of cumulative fair value of 
financial guarantee attributable to subsidiaries:
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
i)
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
 24.96 
 24.96 
ii)
Fortis Healthcare International Limited, Mauritius
 360.98 
 360.98 
iii)
Fortis Hospitals Limited 
 784.69 
 784.69 
iv)
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited
 31.55 
 31.55 
 1,202.18 
 1,202.18 
5(v)
TRADE RECEIVABLES
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Current
Considered good
-	
From Others
	
	
Billed
 18,162.62 
 13,145.77 
	
	
Unbilled
 1,596.37 
 1,478.13 
-	
From Related Parties (refer note 6)
 66.35 
 52.17 
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,693.37)
 (1,553.88)
 18,131.97 
 13,122.19 
Break-up of security details
Trade receivables considered good - Secured
 - 
 - 
Trade receivables considered good - Unsecured
 19,825.34 
 14,676.07 
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,693.37)
 (1,553.88)
Total trade receivables
 18,131.97 
 13,122.19 
Trade Receivables are unsecured and are derived from revenue earned from providing healthcare and other ancillary 
services. No interest is charged on outstanding balance, regardless of the age of the balances. In accordance with Ind AS 
109, the Company applies Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of impairment loss towards 
expected risk of delays and defaults in collection. The Company has used a practical expedient by computing the expected 
credit loss allowance based on a provision matrix. Management makes specific provision in cases where there are known 
specific risks of consumer default in making the payments. The provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss 
experience and adjusted for forward looking information. The provision matrix at the end of the reporting period is as 
follows:
5(iv)
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
253
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Expected credit allowance %
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Ageing
0 - 1 year
0% - 25%
0% - 25%
1 - 2 year
1% - 50%
1% - 48%
2 - 3 year
6% - 77%
6% - 74%
More than 3 years
100%
100%
The movement in Expected Credit Loss during the year is as follows :
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,553.88 
 1,842.46 
Creation of the allowance for expected credit losses
 938.92 
 561.64 
Utilisation of the allowance for expected credit loss
 (799.43)
 (850.22)
Balance at the end of the year
 1,693.37 
 1,553.88 
The Company does not require collateral in respect of trade receivables. The Company does not have trade receivables for 
which no loss allowance is recognised because of collateral.	
Ageing schedule of trade receivables - billed
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 13,857.32 2,314.76 
 570.84 
 750.31 
 135.35 
 600.39  18,228.97 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,857.32 2,314.76 
 570.84 
 750.31 
 135.35 
 600.39  18,228.97 
Less: Loss allowance for 
doubtful trade receivables 
- billed
(1,693.37)
 16,535.60 
Trade receivables - unbilled
 1,596.37 
 18,131.97 
5(v)
TRADE RECEIVABLES (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
254
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 9,337.84  1,323.91 
 780.66 
 647.39 
 367.20 
 740.94  13,197.94 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit 
risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,337.84  1,323.91 
 780.66 
 647.39 
 367.20 
 740.94  13,197.94 
Less: Loss allowance for 
doubtful trade receivables 
- billed
 (1,553.88)
 11,644.06 
Trade receivables - 
unbilled
 1,478.13 
 13,122.19 
Note : Current assets are pledged against loans taken by the Company [refer note 8(i)].
5(v)
TRADE RECEIVABLES (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
255
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(vi)
LOANS (UNSECURED)
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current - at amortised cost
Considered good
(a)
Loans to subsidiaries (refer note 18)
 1,669.20 
 1,605.17 
Total
 1,669.20 
 1,605.17 
Current - at amortised cost
Considered good
(a)
Loans to subsidiaries (refer note 18)
 8,623.29 
 16,099.27 
 8,623.29 
 16,099.27 
Credit impaired
(a)
Loans to others
 362.34 
 362.34 
(b)
Loans to subsidiaries [refer note 18]
 88.73 
 88.73 
 451.07 
 451.07 
Less: Loss allowance
 (451.07)
 (451.07)
 - 
 - 
 8,623.29 
 16,099.27 
	
	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related 
parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013) either severally or jointly with any other person, that are:
	
	
(a) 	 repayable on demand; or
	
	
(b) 	 without specifying any terms or period of repayment
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Break-up of security details
Loans considered good - Secured
 - 
 - 
Loans considered good - Unsecured
 10,292.49 
 17,704.44 
Loans considered doubtful - Unsecured
 - 
 - 
Credit impaired - Unsecured
 451.07 
 451.07 
Less: Loss allowance
 (451.07)
 (451.07)
Total loans
 10,292.49 
 17,704.44 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
256
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(vii)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (UNSECURED)
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non current
Considered good
(a)
Deposit accounts with bank
 12.94 
 11.07 
(b)
Interest accrued on fixed deposits 
 0.49 
 1.38 
(c)
Security deposits
 74.41 
 84.92 
 87.84 
 97.37 
Credit impaired
(a)
Security deposits [refer note 21(C)(ii)]
 378.00 
 378.00 
Less: Loss allowance
 (378.00)
 (378.00)
 - 
 - 
 87.84 
 97.37 
Current
Considered good
(a)
Security deposits
 65.19 
 39.23 
(b)
Interest accrued on fixed deposits
 19.45 
 - 
(c)
Interest accrued and due on loans and non convertible bonds [refer 
note 6]
 4,504.35 
 20,784.69 
(d)
Government grant receivables
 33.07 
 31.61 
(e)
Derivative assets
 0.42 
 - 
(f)
Others
 205.50 
 187.63 
 4,827.98 
 21,043.16 
Credit impaired
(a)
Advances recoverable in cash [refer note 21(C)(ii)]
 1,795.57 
 1,795.57 
(b)
Amount recoverable for salary and reimbursement of expenses[refer 
note 21(C)(vi)]
 2,002.39 
 2,002.39 
(c)
Interest accrued and due on loans and non convertible bonds [refer 
note 15(C)] 
 658.00 
 - 
(d)
Others
 81.29 
 48.21 
 4,537.25 
 3,846.17 
Less: Loss allowance
 (4,537.25)
 (3,846.17)
 - 
 - 
 4,827.98 
 21,043.16 
5(viii)(a) DEFERRED TAX BALANCES
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Deferred tax assets
 8,002.62 
 13,943.62 
Deferred tax liabilities
 (6,192.87)
 (10,133.93)
 1,809.75 
 3,809.69 
The following is the analysis of the movement in deferred tax assets/(liabilities) presented in financial statements:
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
257
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FY 2024-25 	
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
April  01, 
2024
Derecognition 
due to 
disposal
(Charge)/ 
Credit  to 
Profit or loss
(Charge)/ 
Credit  to Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
As at
March 31, 
2025
Deferred tax liabilities
(a)
Property, plant and 
equipment
 (554.57)
 - 
 (569.26)
 - 
 (1,123.83)
(b)
Intangible assets
 (880.25)
 - 
 242.90 
 - 
 (637.35)
(c)
Right-of-use assets
 (8,699.11)
 - 
 4,267.42 
 - 
 (4,431.69)
 (10,133.93)
 - 
 3,941.06 
 - 
 (6,192.87)
Deferred tax assets
(a)
Provision for contingency
 119.91 
 - 
 (35.23)
 - 
 84.68 
(b)
Allowance 
for 
doubtful 
advances 
 (16.57)
 - 
 16.73 
 - 
 0.16 
(c)
Allowance for expected 
credit loss
 542.99 
 - 
 (116.80)
 - 
 426.19 
(d)
Defined benefit obligation
 1,044.84 
 - 
 (180.38)
 48.79 
 913.25 
(e)
Lease liability
 12,014.28 
 - 
 (5,472.07)
 - 
 6,542.21 
(f)
Disallowance under section 
43B(h)
 238.17 
 - 
 (202.04)
-
 36.13 
Less: Classified as held for sale 
(refer note 29)
 13,943.62 
 - 
 (5,989.79)
 48.79 
 8,002.62 
Deferred tax asset (net)
 3,809.69 
 - 
 (2,048.73)
 48.79 
 1,809.75 
FY 2023-24 	
	
	
	
	
(` in Lakhs)
As at
April 01, 
2023
Derecognition 
due to 
disposal
(Charge)/ 
credit to profit 
or loss
Charge/ (credit) 
to other 
comprehensive 
income
As at
March 31, 
2024
Deferred tax liabilities
(a)
Property, plant and 
equipment
 (767.97)
 - 
 213.40 
 - 
 (554.57)
(b)
Intangible assets
 (806.89)
 - 
 (73.36)
 - 
 (880.25)
(c)
Right-of-use assets
 (10,814.88)
 2,778.10 
 (662.33)
 - 
 (8,699.11)
 (12,389.74)
 2,778.10 
 (522.29)
 - 
 (10,133.93)
Deferred tax assets
(a)
Provision for contingency
 116.29 
 - 
 3.62 
 - 
 119.91 
(b)
Allowance for doubtful 
advances
 3.78 
 - 
 (20.35)
 - 
 (16.57)
(c)
Allowance for expected 
credit loss
 643.83 
 - 
 (100.84)
 - 
 542.99 
(d)
Defined benefit obligation
 935.44 
 - 
 91.65 
 17.75 
 1,044.84 
(e)
MAT credit entitlement
 2,312.30 
 - 
 (2,312.30)
 - 
 - 
(f)
Lease liability
 14,514.12 
 (3,208.35)
 708.51 
 - 
 12,014.28 
(g)
Disallowance under section 
43B(h)
 - 
 - 
 238.17 
-
 238.17 
 18,525.76 
 (3,208.35)
 (1,391.54)
 17.75 
 13,943.62 
Less: Classified as held for sale 
(refer note 28)
 (430.25)
 430.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax asset (net)
 5,705.77 
 - 
 (1,913.83)
 17.75 
 3,809.69 
5(viii)(a) DEFERRED TAX BALANCES (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
258
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
	
	
In addition to above, no deferred tax asset has been recognised on
(` in Lakhs)
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at
March 31, 2024
Advances and other financial assets provided for
 4,743.47 
 4,743.47 
Capital  losses
 866.73 
 2,293.68 
 5,610.20 
 7,037.15 
	
	
Expiry in assessment year
As on March 31, 2025
As on March 31, 2024
 Gross Amount 
Tax effect
 Gross Amount 
Tax effect
No deferrred tax asset has 
been recognised on below 
Long Term Capital Loss :
2026-27
 2.99 
 0.43 
 2.99 
 0.70 
2032-33
 863.74 
 123.51 
 863.74 
 533.64 
Total
 866.73 
 123.94 
 866.73 
 534.34 
5(viii)(b) INCOME-TAX 
(` in Lakhs)
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at
March 31, 2024
Recognised in statement of profit and loss
Current tax
(a) Current income tax charge for the year
 3,014.19 
 2,796.71 
 3,014.19 
 2,796.71 
Deferred tax
(a) Deferred tax charge on profits for the year
 2,048.73 
 1,913.83 
 2,048.73 
 1,913.83 
Tax expense recognised through statement of profit and loss
 5,062.92 
 4,710.54 
Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax credit
Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 (48.79)
 (17.75)
Tax recognised through other comprehensive income
 (48.79)
 (17.75)
The income tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the 
accounting profit as follows:
Profit  before tax from continuing operations
 11,441.36 
 24,656.03 
Applicable income tax rate*
25.168%
34.944%
Income tax debit/(credit) calculated
 2,879.56 
 8,615.80 
Effect of expenses disallowed in determining taxable profits
 36.70 
 8.69 
Effect of provision for (increase)/ dimunition in value of Investment and 
interest accrued 
 2,898.15 
 (3,150.35)
Effect of tax in relation to previous years
 - 
 (175.19)
Effect of change in income tax rate from 34.944% to 25.168%
 1,066.20 
 - 
Dividend income exempt under section 80M of Income Tax Act, 1961
 (1,767.51)
 (471.06)
Effect of gain on disposal of Arcot road unit
 - 
 (122.06)
Others
 (50.18)
 4.71 
Income tax expense (including deferred tax) recognised in profit or 
loss
 5,062.92 
 4,710.54 
*During the current year, the Company has opted for taxation under section 115BAA of the Income Tax Act, 1961. It has 
accordingly applied tax rate as applicable under the provision of section 115BAA of the Act in the financial statement for 
the period ended March 31, 2025.
5(viii)(a) DEFERRED TAX BALANCES (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
259
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(ix)
NON-CURRENT TAX ASSETS (NET)
 As at 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
 As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Advance income tax (net of provision for taxation)*
 9,289.01 
 12,505.71 
 9,289.01 
 12,505.71 
Provision for taxation
30,497.14
27,482.95
	
	
*including refund of ` 2,755.46 Lakhs (As at March 31, 2024 ` 2,487.41 Lakhs) adjusted by tax authorities against 
demand orders of earlier years which are being contested by the Company under various forums.
5(x)
OTHER ASSETS (UNSECURED)
 As at 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
 As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current
Considered good
(a)
Capital advances (refer note 20 & 35)
 33,358.17 
 176.03 
(b)
Balances with government authorities - Goods and service tax 
recoverable
 126.52 
 168.00 
(c)
Prepaid expenses
 11.21 
 24.35 
 33,495.90 
 368.38 
Current
Considered good
(a)
Advance to vendors 
 212.78 
 133.76 
(b)
Prepaid expenses 
 580.07 
 463.93 
 792.85 
 597.69 
Considered doubtful
(a)
Advance to vendors 
 18.29 
 18.29 
Less: Loss allowance
 (18.29)
 (18.29)
 - 
 - 
 792.85 
 597.69 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
260
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(xi)
INVENTORIES
 As at 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
 As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value
Medical consumables, drugs and others
 1,671.74 
 1,292.58 
 1,671.74 
 1,292.58 
5(xii)(a) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
	
	
For the purposes of the standalone statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in 
banks, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as shown in the 
statement of cash flows can be reconciled to the related items in the balance sheet as follows:
 As at 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
 As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Balances with banks
-on current accounts
 147.94 
 49.00 
-deposits with original maturity of less than three months
 4,650.00 
 1,950.00 
(b)
Cash on hand
 98.15 
 56.27 
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet
 4,896.09 
 2,055.27 
Bank overdrafts (refer note 5(xv))
 (587.24)
 (1,518.10)
Cash and cash equivalents as per statement of cash flows
 4,308.85 
 537.17 
5(xii)(b) BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN ABOVE
 As at 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
 As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)	
Unpaid dividend account
 43.71 
 28.55 
(b)	
Balances with banks
	
-Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 
months
 5.37 
 9,910.87 
 49.08 
 9,939.42 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
261
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(xiii)
SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
 As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Authorised share capital: 
850,000,000 (850,000,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity shares of ` 10 each
 85,000.00 
 85,000.00 
200 Class 'A' (200 as at March 31, 2024) Non- cumulative redeemable 
preference shares of ` 100,000 each
 200.00 
 200.00 
11,498,846 Class 'B' (11,498,846 as at March 31, 2024) Non- cumulative 
redeemable preference shares of ` 10 each
 1,149.88 
 1,149.88 
64,501,154 Class 'C' (64,501,154 as at March 31, 2024) Cumulative 
redeemable preference shares of ` 10 each
 6,450.12 
 6,450.12 
Total authorised share capital
 92,800.00 
 92,800.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up shares
754,958,148 (754,958,148 as at March 31, 2024) Equity shares of ` 10 each
 75,495.81 
 75,495.81 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital
 75,495.81 
 75,495.81 
	
	
Notes :
	
	
(a)	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period
	
	
Equity Shares
Particulars
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
Number
` in Lakhs
Number
 ` in Lakhs
At the beginning of the year 
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
Issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
	
	
(b)	 Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
	
	
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of 10 per share. In the event of liquidation of the 
Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company after distribution of 
all preferential amount. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. 
Each holder of equity share is entitled to one vote per share.
	
	
(c)	
Shares held by the holding/ ultimate holding company and/ or their subsidiaries
	
	
	
Equity shares
Name of Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of 
Shares held
 ` in Lakhs
No. of 
Shares held
 ` in Lakhs
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd (refer note 
20) (Holding Company)
 235,294,117 
 23,529.41 
 235,294,117 
 23,529.41 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
262
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
	
	
(d)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
	
	
	
Equity Shares
Name of Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of 
Shares held
% of Holding 
No. of 
Shares held
% of Holding 
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd (refer note 
20) (Holding Company)
 235,294,117 
31.17%
 235,294,117 
31.17%
	
	
(e)	 Details of shares held by promoters
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change during 
the year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of Total 
Shares
% change 
during the 
year
Northern TK Venture Pte 
Ltd
 235,294,117 
 - 
 23,52,94,117 
31.17%
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change during 
the year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of Total 
Shares
% change 
during the 
year
Northern TK Venture Pte 
Ltd
 235,294,117 
 - 
 23,52,94,117 
31.17%
 - 
	
	
(f)	
For the period of five years immediately preceding the date of the balance sheet, there were no share allotment made 
for consideration other than cash and also no bonus shares were issued. Further, there has been no buyback of shares 
during the period of five years preceding the date of balance sheet.
5(xiv)
CHANGES IN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Particulars
Non-current 
borrowings 
 Current 
borrowings (net) 
 Interest accrued 
 Lease liability 
As at April 01, 2023
 28,158.06 
 8,820.33 
 192.39 
 41,535.37 
Lease liability paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,234.40)
Proceeds from borrowings 
 24,079.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Repayment of borrowings 
 (22,874.22)
 (6,825.00)
 - 
 - 
Reclassification of bank overdraft*
 - 
 201.95 
 - 
 - 
Reclassification of non current 
borrowing to current borrwings
 (3,957.79)
 3,957.79 
-
-
Finance cost **
 - 
 - 
 3,444.04 
 4,565.39 
Finance cost paid 
 - 
 - 
 (3,594.10)
 (4,565.39)
Reclassified to trade payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,919.44)
As at 31 March 2024
 25,405.46 
 6,155.07 
 42.33 
 34,381.53 
Lease liability paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4,794.99)
Proceeds from borrowings 
 195.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from issue of non-
convertible debentures 
 1,55,000.00 
5(xiii)
SHARE CAPITAL (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
263
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Particulars
Non-current 
borrowings 
 Current 
borrowings (net) 
 Interest accrued 
 Lease liability 
Repayment of borrowings 
 (7,895.50)
 (71.00)
 - 
 - 
Reclassification of bank overdraft*
 - 
 (930.86)
 - 
 - 
Net movement in current maturities 
of non-current borrowings
 1,113.34 
 (1,113.34)
 - 
 - 
Finance cost **
 - 
 - 
 7,487.96 
 3,467.54 
Finance cost paid 
 - 
 - 
 (3,841.53)
 (3,467.54)
Reclassified to trade payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,592.39)
As at 31 March 2025
 1,73,818.83 
 4,039.87 
 3,688.76 
 25,994.15 
	
	
* Bank overdraft have been reclassified from current borrowing to cash and cash equivalent for the purpose of preparation 
of statement of cash flow.
	
	
** It excludes the interest expenses on defined benefit plan and other long term obligations.
5(xv)
NON-CURRENT BORROWINGS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025 
(` in Lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
(` in Lakhs)
Carried at amortised cost
(i) 	 Secured
	
(a) 	 Term loans
 	
	
- 	
from banks [refer note 8(i)(b),(c) and (d)]
 18,639.66 
 25,312.00 
	
(b) 	 Vehicle loans [refer note 8(i) (d)]
 179.17 
 93.46 
	
(c) 	 Non-convertible debentures [refer note 8(i) (e) & 36]
 1,55,000.00 
 - 
 1,73,818.83 
 25,405.46 
Current borrowings
Carried at amortised cost
(i) 	 Secured - repayable on demand
	
(a) 	 Bank overdraft [refer note 8 (i)(a)]
 587.24 
 1,518.10 
	
(b) 	 Current maturities of non-current borrowings [refer note 8(i)(b),(c), (d)]
 170.60 
 1,283.94 
 757.84 
 2,802.04 
(ii) 	 Unsecured
	
(a) 	 Loans from subsidiary companies [refer note 8(ii)]
 3,282.03 
 3,353.03 
 3,282.03 
 3,353.03 
 4,039.87 
 6,155.07 
5(xvi)
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Current
Unsecured
(a) 	 Security deposits
 6.56 
 2.10 
(b) 	 Interest accrued and not due on borrowings
 3,651.89 
 - 
(c) 	 Interest accrued and due on borrowings
 36.87 
 42.33 
5(xiv)
CHANGES IN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
264
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(d) 	 Capital creditors*
 5,588.21 
 1,826.08 
(e) 	 Technology renewal fund payable to related party [refer note 6]
 143.20 
 115.20 
(f) 	 Employee payable
 2,783.75 
 2,523.22 
(g) 	 Unpaid equity dividend
 43.71 
 28.55 
(h) 	 Other liabilities
 718.83 
 387.92 
 12,973.02 
 4,925.40 
	
	
*This includes amount payable to micro and small enterprises amounting to ` 238.20 Lakhs as at March 31, 2025 
(` 171.32 Lakhs as at March 31, 2024)
5(xvii)
PROVISIONS
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non current
Provision for employee benefits
(a) 	 Provision for gratuity (refer note 12)
 2,280.32 
 2,002.60 
(b) 	 Provision for compensated absences
 665.70 
 563.19 
 2,946.02 
 2,565.79 
Current
Provision for employee benefits
(a) 	 Provision for gratuity (refer note 12)
 488.98 
 287.46 
(b)	
Provision for compensated absences
 194.08 
 131.27 
Others
(a) 	 Provision for contingencies *
 1,796.47 
 1,803.14 
 2,479.53 
 2,221.87 
	
	
* Provision for contingencies :
	
 As at 
 March 31, 2025 
 As at 
 March 31, 2024 
(i) 	
Provision for indemnification (refer note 9(b)) 	
A
 205.03 
 205.03 
(ii) 	 Others 	
B
	
Opening balance [refer note (a) below]
 1,598.11 
 1,587.74 
	
Add: Provision during the year [refer note (b) below]
 30.83 
 31.11 
	
Less: Reversed during the year
 (37.50)
 (20.74)
 1,591.44 
 1,598.11 
	
Provision for contingencies - Total (A+B)
 1,796.47 
 1,803.14 
	
	
(a) 	 Includes ` 1,460.00 Lakhs (` 1,460.00 Lakhs as at March 31, 2024) in respect of any contingencies emanating from 
regulatory matters, which will be settled when the outcome is known. (refer note 21).
	
	
(b) 	 Provision for contingency is made against clinical research studies and amount due as refund to the patients.
5(xvi)
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (Contd.) 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
265
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(xviii)
TRADE PAYABLES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (refer 
note 17)
 1,542.04 
 2,420.39 
(b) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 65,408.93 
 49,434.14 
 66,950.97 
 51,854.53 
 66,950.97 
 51,854.53 
Of the above trade payables amounts due to related parties are as 
below:
Trade Payables due to related parties (refer note 6)
 45,606.70 
 36,244.43 
	
	
Ageing schedule
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Unbilled
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
(i) 	
MSME
 - 
 1,359.62 
 154.35 
 24.52 
 3.55 
 - 
 1,542.04 
(ii) 	 Others
 11,583.84  12,284.56  18,019.49 
 9,099.60  10,037.89 
 4,383.55  65,408.93 
(iii) 	 Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 66,950.97 
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Unbilled
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
(i) 	
MSME
 - 
 2,340.29 
 62.25 
 1.83 
 3.51 
 12.51 
 2,420.39 
(ii) 	 Others
 8,199.68 
 5,767.54  16,906.91  12,257.85 
 6,222.75 
 79.41  49,434.14 
(iii) 	 Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
Total
 51,854.53 
5(xix)
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Contract liability - advance from patients
 937.44 
 944.73 
(b) 	 Statutory dues payable
 2,366.23 
 1,520.42 
 3,303.67 
 2,465.15 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
266
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(xx)
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
I. 	
Revenue from contracts with customers
A. 	 Sale of services
	
Healthcare services
	
-	
Operating income - in patient department
 1,30,401.17 
 1,05,305.04 
	
-	
Operating income - out patient department
 18,526.11 
 15,606.78 
	
-	
Income from medical services
 144.94 
 120.56 
	
-	
Management fees from hospitals
 501.65 
 445.85 
	
Less: Trade discounts
 (6,088.38)
 (4,485.89)
	
Total (A)
 1,43,485.49 
 1,16,992.34 
B. 	 Sale of products - Trading
	
i) 	
Pharmacy
 81.15 
 25.65 
	
Less: Trade discounts
 (0.69)
 (0.06)
	
Total (B)
 80.46 
 25.59 
I. 	
Total Revenue from contracts with customers (A+B)
 1,43,565.95 
 1,17,017.93 
	
Timing of revenue recognition
	
Goods transferred at a point in time
 80.46 
 25.59 
	
Services transferred at a point in time
 17,386.67 
 14,852.51 
	
Services transferred over time
 1,26,098.82 
 1,02,139.83 
	
 1,43,565.95 
 1,17,017.93 
	
Contract balances
	
Contract assets (unbilled revenue)
 1,596.37 
 1,478.13 
	
Contract liabilities (advance from patient)
 937.44 
 944.73 
	
The revenue recognised during the current year is the balancing 
number for transactions with customers after opening and closing 
balances of receivables and liabilities.
II. 	
Other operating revenues
	
i) 	
Income from academic services
 65.80 
 94.41 
	
ii) 	
Income from rent [refer note 7(b)]
 11.20 
 4.07 
	
iii) 	 Equipment lease rental [refer note 7(b)]
 514.00 
 581.06 
	
iv) 	 Provision/liabilites no longer required written back
 155.74 
 261.76 
	
v) 	
Miscellaneous income
 275.88 
 183.07 
II. Total other operating revenues
 1,022.62 
 1,124.37 
Total revenue from operations (I+II)
 1,44,588.57 
 1,18,142.30 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
267
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(xxi)
OTHER INCOME
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Interest income
	
i) 	
Interest on bank deposits
 1,528.55 
 69.59 
	
ii) 	
Interest on loans and investments
 10,861.16 
 12,299.60 
	
iii) 	 Interest on income tax refunds
 436.53 
 186.43 
	
iv) 	 Interest on other financial assets carried at amortised cost
 - 
 1.89 
 12,826.24 
 12,557.51 
(b) 	 Dividend income
	
i) 	
Dividend from equity investments
 7,022.84 
 1,348.06 
 7,022.84 
 1,348.06 
(c) 	 Other non-operating income
	
i) 	
Financial guarantee income
 - 
 140.81 
	
ii) 	
Net gain & losses arising on financial assets desiganated at FVTPL
 0.42 
 - 
	
iii) 	 Profit on sale of property plant and equipment (net)
 1.31 
 - 
	
iv) 	 Miscellaneous income
 4.63 
 254.04 
 6.36 
 394.85 
Total other income (a+b+c)
 19,855.44 
 14,300.42 
5(xxii)
CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF MEDICAL CONSUMABLE AND DRUGS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Inventory at the beginning of the year
 1,292.58 
 1,491.95 
(b) 	 Inventory at the end of the year
 1,671.74 
 1,292.58 
Changes in inventories [(a)-(b)]
 (379.16)
 199.37 
5(xxiii)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Salaries, wages and bonus
 18,924.70 
 17,151.45 
(b) 	 Gratuity expense [refer note 12]
 266.20 
 249.09 
(c) 	 Compensated absences
 175.40 
 104.64 
(d) 	 Contribution to provident and other funds [refer note 12]
 846.16 
 846.75 
(e) 	 Staff welfare expenses
 500.34 
 445.62 
 20,712.80 
 18,797.55 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
268
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
5(xxiv)
FINANCE COSTS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Interest expense
	
-	
on term loans
 1,728.07 
 2,092.81 
	
-	
on non-convertible debentures (refer note 8(e))
 4,178.95 
 - 
	
-	
on cash credit
 225.82 
 225.17 
	
-	
on defined benefit plan and other long term obligations
 202.42 
 182.13 
	
-	
on loan from subsidiaries
 298.16 
 619.58 
	
-	
on lease liabilities [refer note 7(a)]
 3,467.54 
 4,565.39 
	
-	
on others
 18.82 
 144.49 
(b) 	 Other borrowing cost (including prepayment charges)
 1,038.14 
 361.99 
 11,157.92 
 8,191.56 
5(xxv)
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment [refer note 5(i)(a)]
 3,769.36 
 2,590.82 
(b) 	 Depreciation of right-of-use assets [refer note 7(a)]
 7,286.03 
 7,292.36 
(c) 	 Amortisation of intangible assets [refer note 5(iii)(a)]
 236.84 
 215.09 
 11,292.23 
 10,098.27 
5(xxvi)
OTHER EXPENSES
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Contractual manpower
 1,866.33 
 1,825.03 
(b)
Power and fuel 
 1,757.32 
 1,529.37 
(c)
Housekeeping expenses including consumables
 433.50 
 304.67 
(d)
Patient food and beverages
 996.75 
 847.19 
(e)
Pathology laboratory expenses
 1,381.41 
 1,759.34 
(f)
Radiology expenses
 93.61 
 - 
(g)
Cost of medical services
 151.65 
 506.02 
(h)
Professional and consultation fees to doctors
 27,165.71 
 20,999.10 
(i)
Hospital service fee expense
 10,519.82 
 8,625.70 
(j)
Repairs and maintenance 
- 	
Building
 156.37 
 110.68 
- 	
Plant and machinery
 2,277.96 
 1,966.59 
- 	
Others
 210.95 
 176.15 
(k)
Rent
 505.94 
 549.64 
(l)
Independent Director remuneration
 376.63 
 354.00 
(m)
Legal and professional fee*
 4,492.98 
 3,511.40 
(n)
Travel and conveyance
 851.26 
 700.17 
(o)
Rates and taxes
 336.67 
 102.71 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
269
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(p)
Recruitment and trainings
 48.91 
 189.08 
(q)
Printing and stationary
 408.53 
 379.67 
(r)
Communication expenses
 151.27 
 124.53 
(s)
Directors' sitting fees
 172.28 
 177.00 
(t)
Insurance
 365.75 
 330.58 
(u)
Marketing and business promotion
 4,358.93 
 3,113.49 
(v)
Loss on sale of property, plant & equipment (net)
 - 
 40.91 
(w)
Foreign exchange fluctuation loss (net)
 3.02 
 0.30 
(x)
Allowance for doubtful receivables
 938.92 
 561.64 
(y)
Allowance for doubtful advances
 33.10 
 98.05 
(z)
Corporate social responsibility expenses (refer note 19)
 147.01 
 68.49 
(aa) Miscellaneous expenses
 113.47 
 6.17 
 60,316.05 
 48,957.67 
*Note:
(i)
Auditors' remuneration comprises (inclusive of indirect tax)
(a)
Fees as auditors
 324.32 
 300.88 
(b)
Tax audit fee
 3.52 
 3.28 
(c)
Certification and other services
 25.37 
 4.13 
(d)
Out of pocket expenses
 35.32 
 30.83 
 388.53 
 339.12 
5(xxvii) EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Expenses/(income):
(a)	
Impairment/(reversal of impairment) of investments (including interest 
accrued) in subsidiary companies [refer note 15(a), (b) and (c)]
 11,514.28 
 (9,015.44)
(b) 	 Gain on sale of Arcot Road Hospital (refer note 28)
 - 
 (349.29)
 11,514.28 
 (9,364.73)
5(xxviii) EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Profit as per statement of profit and loss (` in Lakhs)
 6,378.44 
 19,945.49 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
 75,49,58,148 
 75,49,58,148 
Basic EPS (in `)
 0.84 
 2.64 
Diluted EPS (in `)*
 0.84 
 2.64 
	
	
*The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on profit attributable to equity shareholders and weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding, after adjustment for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. Since there are 
no potential equity shares outstanding at year end, there are no dilutive equity shares.
5(xxvi)
OTHER EXPENSES (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
270
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
	
Names of related parties and related party relationship
Nature of relationship
Name of related parties
Ultimate Holding Company
IHH Healthcare Berhad, Malaysia
Intermediate Holding Company
Integrated Healthcare Holdings Limited, Malaysia
Parkway Pantai Limited, Singapore
Holding Company
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd, Singapore
Subsidiary Companies- direct or 
indirect through investment in 
subsidiaries
1)	
Fortis Hospitals Limited (‘FHsL’) (wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
2)	
Birdie & Birdie Realtors Private Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of FHsL)
3)	
Fortis Cancer Care Limited (‘FCCL’) (wholly owned subsidiary of FHsL)
4)	
Fortis Health Management (East) Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of FHsL)
5)	
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited (subsidiary of FHsL)
6)	
Fortis Emergency Services Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of FHsL)
7)	
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of FHsL).
8)	
Fortis Global Healthcare (Mauritius) Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of FHsL)
9)	
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited (“EHIRCL”) (wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company)
10)	 Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte. Limited, Singapore (“FAHPL”) (wholly owned subsidiary 
of EHIRCL)
11)	 Fortis Health staff Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of EHIRCL)
12)	 Fortis Healthcare International Pte. Limited, Singapore (“FHIPL”) (wholly owned 
subsidiary of FAHPL), merged with FAHPL w.e.f. June 12, 2023
13)	 Agilus Diagnostics Limited (“Agilus”) (Formerly known as SRL Limited) (subsidiary of 
the Company)
14)	 Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited (Formerly known as SRL Diagnostics Private Limited 
(wholly owned subsidiary of Agilus)
15)	 Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of the Company)
16)	 Fortis Healthcare International Limited, Mauritius (“FHIL) (wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company)
17)	 Adayu Mindfulness Limited (Formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited) (wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company)
18)	 Fortis Hospotel Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of the Company)
19)	 International Hospital Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of the Company)
20)	 Fortis Health Management Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of the Company)
21)	 Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Company)
22)	 Malar Stars Medicare Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of Fortis Malar Hospitals 
Limited).
23)	 RHT Health Trust Manager PTE Limited, Singapore (wholly owned subsidiary of 
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited).
24)	 Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited (wholly owned subsidiary of Fortis Health 
Management Limited).
25)	 Fortis CSR Foundation
26)	 Artistery Properties Private Limited
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
271
Nature of relationship
Name of related parties
Associates- direct or indirect 
through investment in subsidiaries 
(parties with whom transactions 
have been taken place)
Lanka Hospitals Corporation PLC, Sri Lanka
Joint ventures- direct or indirect 
through investment in subsidiaries 
(parties with whom transactions 
have been taken place)
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited (‘C-Doc’) (joint venture of FHsL)
Enterprises owned or significantly 
controlled/influenced by subsidiary 
of holding/ultimate holding 
company/ enterprise having 
significant influence over ultimate 
holding company (with whom 
transactions have been taken place)
Acibadem Teknoloji A.S.
Entity having significant influence 
(Enterprise having significant 
influence over ultimate holding 
company through its subsidiary)
(a)	
Mitsui & Co Ltd, Japan
(b)	
Khazanah Nasional Berhad, Malaysia
Key Management Personnel 
(‘KMP’)/Director
(a)	
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi - Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
(b)	
Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal - Chief Financial Officer
(c)	
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal - Independent Director( up to September 30, 2024)
(d)	
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty – Independent Director
(e)	
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee - Independent Director
(f)	
Mrs. Shailaja Chandra – Independent Director
(g)	
Mr. Dilip Kadambi – Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(h)	
Mr. Joerg Ayrle – Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (upto October 02, 2023)
(i)	
Mr. Sim Heng Joo Joe - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director ( upto August 31, 
2023)
(j)	
Mr. Murlee Manohar Jain - Company Secretary (up to February 29, 2024)
(k)	
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(l)	
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(m)	 Mr. Satyendra Chauhan - Company Secretary (w.e.f. March 01, 2024)
(n)	
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair – Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (w.e.f. November 
10, 2023)
(o)	
Mr. Ashok Pandit- Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (w.e.f September 13, 
2023)
(p)	
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin – Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (w.e.f May 04, 2023)
(q)	
Mr. Takeshi Saito – Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (upto March 28, 2023)
(q)	
Mr. Leo Puri - Independent Director (w.e.f. December 27, 2024)
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
272
	
Transactions taken place during the year are as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Transactions details
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Income (including income from medical services, management fees from 
hospitals, rental, pharmacy income, reimbursements)
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
2.35
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
13.59
10.57
Interest income on loans and investments
Fortis Hospitals Limited
428.49
653.39
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
768.50
796.30
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
3,471.53
4,632.99
International Hospital Limited
5,897.61
5,897.61
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
94.32
94.28
Fortis Health Management Limited
48.01
165.89
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
1.78
1.33
Artistery Properties Private Limited
150.92
57.81
Financial guarantee income
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
140.81
Dividend from equity investments
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (formerly known as SRL Limited)
764.50
1,348.06
 Fortis Hospotel Limited
6,258.34
-
Transfer of medical consumables and pharmacy to
Fortis Hospitals Limited
8.65
21.03
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
-
0.45
Transfer of medical consumables and pharmacy from
Fortis Hospitals Limited
11.41
1.14
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
2.45
0.82
Professional charges to doctors
Fortis Hospotel Limited
0.53
0.80
Contribution for Corporate Social Responsibility expenses
Fortis CSR foundation
-
50.00
Interest expense
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
-
312.39
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited
298.16
307.19
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
273
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
(` in Lakhs)
Transactions details
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Pathology laboratory expenses
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
1,229.27
1,710.30
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
1.33
-
Fortis Hospitals Limited
8.55
-
Hospital service fee expenses*
Fortis Hospotel Limited
14,088.46
12,821.65
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
7,849.14
6,889.28
*includes lease payment of ` 11,417.78 Lakhs (Previous year ` 7,799.79 Lakhs)
Managerial remuneration (refer note 1 below)
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Short-term employee benefits
959.06
907.14
Post employment benefits and Other long term employee benefits
34.94
20.11
Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal
Short-term employee benefits
551.01
463.48
Post employment benefits and Other long term employee benefits
13.16
14.88
Mr. Murlee Manohar Jain
Short-term employee benefits
-
101.86
Post employment benefits and Other long term employee benefits
-
1.92
Mr. Satyendra Chauhan
Short-term employee benefits
101.13
19.44
Post employment benefits and Other long term employee benefits
4.15
0.01
Independent Director Remuneration (refer note 5 below)
Mr. Leo Puri
60.68
-
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
55.76
106.20
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
86.73
82.60
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
86.73
82.60
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
86.73
82.60
Director sitting fee (refer note 5 below)
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
36.58
35.40
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
4.72
15.34
Mr. Leo Puri
4.72
-
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
23.60
22.42
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
274
(` in Lakhs)
Transactions details
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Northern TK Venture Pte. Limited (Mr. Sim Heng Joo Joe)
-
7.08
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
38.94
35.40
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd (Mr. Dilip Kadambi)
11.80
11.80
Northern TK Venture Pte. Limited (Mr. Joerg Ayrle)
-
8.26
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
4.72
9.44
Mitsui and Co. Ltd. (Mr.Tomo Nagahiro)
9.44
11.80
Dr.Prem Kumar Nair
16.52
9.44
Mr. Ashok Pandit
21.24
10.62
Director sitting fee received from
RHT Health Trust Manager PTE Ltd.
-
24.32
Expense incurred by the Company on behalf of
Fortis Hospitals Limited
0.36
0.51
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
2.30
-
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
-
19.88
Escorts Heart Institute & Research Centre Limited
1.48
-
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
1.51
-
Hospital services taken for employees from
Fortis Hospitals Limited
32.54
21.09
Escorts Heart Institute & Research Centre Limited
11.38
4.98
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
0.40
-
Hospital services given to employees of
Fortis Hospitals Limited
22.11
12.64
International Hospital Limited
-
1.62
Fortis Hospotel Limited
11.46
8.48
Escorts Heart Institute & Research Centre Limited
0.50
6.81
Expense incurred on behalf of the Company by
Fortis Hospitals Limited
80.83
-
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
-
9.44
Fortis Hospotel Limited
788.12
676.65
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
494.94
460.17
Reimbursement of expenses to directors
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
2.43
9.57
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro
3.50
13.58
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
275
(` in Lakhs)
Transactions details
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Mr. Mehmet Ali
23.55
51.36
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
6.10
5.25
Mr. Takeshi Saito
1.50
-
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin
1.35
-
Intangibles assets acquired
Acibadem Teknoloji A.S.
174.72
33.68
Transfer of employee benefit liability and other long-term benefits by 
Company to
Fortis Hospitals Limited
21.92
2.05
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
-
0.14
Transfer of employee benefit liability and other long-term benefits to 
Company from
Fortis Hospitals Limited
28.42
19.88
Fortis Hospotel Limited
0.38
0.67
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
0.08
-
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
0.52
-
Investments in Equity Shares
Artistery Properties Private Limited
-
3,199.99
Provision for impairment of investment
Fortis Healthcare International Limited
7,405.12
1,333.23
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
3,451.16
-
Provision for impairment of accrued interest
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
658.00
-
Provision for doubtful loan & advances
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
-
25.00
Reversal of provision for impairment of investment
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
-
10,348.67
Interest converted to loan
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
816.71
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
-
581.09
Artistery Properties Private Limited
52.02
-
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
276
(` in Lakhs)
Transactions details
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Loan given to subsidiaries
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
165.50
60.00
Artistery Properties Private Limited
12.00
1605.17
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
-
85.00
Loans and advance received back
Fortis Hospitals Limited
7140.77
-
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
-
35.00
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
500.00
-
Loans repaid
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited
71.00
25.00
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
-
6,800.00
Financial guarantees given to banks/related party by Company for loans 
availed by
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
-
4,200.00
Financial guarantees given to banks/related party by Company withdrawn 
during the year for loans availed by
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
98,475.00
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
-
11,113.00
Fortis Hospotel Limited
-
12,828.00
International Hospital Limited
-
14,025.00
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited-
-
2,450.00
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
-
7,500.00
Financial guarantees on behalf of Company to avail loan given by related 
parties withdrawn during the year
International Hospital Limited
-
20,000.00
Collection on behalf of Company by
Fortis Hospitals Limited
19.88
14.81
Collection by Company on behalf of
Fortis Hospitals Limited
20.42
6.30
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
0.98
11.80
Fortis Hospotel Limited
2.83
4.83
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
0.85
3.87
Fortis Health Management Limited
9.16
-
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
277
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
(` in Lakhs)
Transactions details
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Redemption of Investment
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
31,304.01
-
Fortis Health Management Limited
11,91.96
-
Advance given for purchase of assets
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
28,210.00
-
Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment
International Hospitals Limited
11,572.00
-
Fortis Hospitals Limited
9.23
-
Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
Fortis Hospitals Limited
3.33
-
(` in Lakhs)
Balance outstanding at the year end
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Investments (gross)
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Equity Instrument)
110,995.27
110,995.27
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited (Equity Instrument)
76,919.72
76,919.72
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited) (Equity 
Instrument)
268,679.31
90,905.48
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited (Equity Instrument)
13,021.28
13,021.28
Fortis Healthcare International Limited (Equity Instrument)
15,105.47
15,105.47
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
(Equity Instrument)
5.00
5.00
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited) 
(Redeemable Preference share)
2.00
2.00
Fortis Hospotel Limited (Equity Instrument)
243,016.88
243,016.88
Fortis CSR Foundation (Equity Instrument)
5.00
5.00
Fortis Health Management Limited (Equity Instrument)
856.60
856.60
Fortis Health Management Limited (Debt Instrument)
-
1,191.96
International Hospital Limited (Equity Instrument)
207,657.21
207,657.21
International Hospital Limited (Debt Instrument)
42,760.00
42,760.00
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited (Equity Instrument)
40,625.51
40,625.51
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited (Debt Instrument)
-
31,304.01
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited (Debt Instrument)
7,172.50
7,172.50
Artistery Properties Private Limited
3,199.99
3,199.99
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
278
(` in Lakhs)
Balance outstanding at the year end
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Impairment of investments
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
7.00
7.00
Fortis Healthcare International Limited
8,738.35
1,333.23
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
3,451.16
-
Loans receivable from subsidiary companies
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
7,141.66
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
254.23
88.73
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
8,202.79
8,702.61
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
250.00
250.00
Artistery Properties Private Limited
1,669.20
1,605.17
Fortis Healthstaff Limited
5.00
5.00
Provision for doubtful loans and advances
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as Fortis La Femme Limited)
88.73
88.73
Interest accrued on loans and investments
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
588.04
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
691.64
716.68
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
1814.85
14,486.39
Artistery Properties Private Limited
135.83
52.02
International Hospital Limited
1,862.03
4,254.19
Fortis Health Management Limited
-
29.37
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
658.00
658.00
Provision for impairment of accrued interest
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
658.00
-
Other balances recoverable
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
276.53
279.21
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
28.39
34.06
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
-
12.58
Advance for purchase of assets
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
28,210
-
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
279
(` in Lakhs)
Balance outstanding at the year end
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
-
9.31
Fortis Hospitals Limited
63.07
31.65
Fortis Hospotel Limited
1.95
11.21
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
1.33
-
Provision for doubtful receivables/other financials assets
Fortis Health Management (East) Limited
20.54
45.80
Loans payable to subsidiary companies
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited
3282.03
3,353.03
Interest accrued on borrowings taken
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited
22.70
23.39
Trade payables
Fortis Hospitals Limited
26.95
-
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (Formerly known as SRL Limited)
437.21
357.60
Fortis Hospotel Limited (refer note 2 below)
37,604.17
30,997.01
Fortis Emergency Services Limited
1.46
1.69
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited (refer note 2 below)
7,536.91
4,887.99
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
-
0.14
Technology renewal fund
Fortis Hospotel Limited
78.00
72.00
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited
65.20
43.20
Capital Creditors
Acibadem Teknoloji A.S.
30.95
-
	
Notes:
	
1)	
Amount shown is inclusive of perquisites, employer’s contribution to provident fund and excluding reimbursement of 
expenses.
	
2)	
As per the HMSA arrangement with the property holding companies, the Company pays service fee consideration to the 
property holding companies, as an when due. As per terms of the HMSA, in the event of any delay in payment of the 
Service Fee, an interest at a rate of State Bank of India base rate plus 2% per annum (on a compounded monthly basis) 
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
280
shall be payable to the property holding companies by the Company. The Company and property holding companies 
have agreed that no interest would be charged/demanded for the delay in the payments on amounts under HMSA for the 
financial year 2023-24 and 2024-25 on account of the continued business relation. Consequently, the Company has not 
recognised interest on the delayed payment of the service fees/technology renewal fund during the year ended March 31, 
2024 and March 31, 2025.
	
3)	
Also refer note 9(a), 9(b) and 21.
	
4)	
All transactions with these related parties are priced on an arm’s length basis and all financial assets and liabilities are to be 
settled with in credit period from the reporting date. None of the balances are secured.
	
5)	
Amount shown is inclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST) payable under reverse charge mechanism.
7.
LEASES
	
(a)	 As a lessee
	
	
The Company leases many assets including Buildings and Medical equipment. Information about leases for which the 
Company is a lessee is presented below.
(` in Lakhs)
Right-of-use assets
Buildings
Medical 
Equipment
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
59,114.96
1,555.82
60,670.78
Additions
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
59,114.96
1,555.82
60,670.78
Additions
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2025
59,114.96
1,555.82
60,670.78
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 01, 2023
28,384.34
108.04
28,492.38
Charge for the year
 7,033.06
 259.30
 7,292.36
As at March 31, 2024
 35,417.40
 367.34
 35,784.74
Charge for the year
7,026.73
259.30
7,286.03
As at March 31, 2025
42,444.13
 626.64
 43,070.77
Carrying value
As at March 31, 2024
 23,697.56
 1,188.48
 24,886.04
As at March 31, 2025
 16,670.83
 929.18
 17,600.01
Lease Liabilities
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Maturity analysis - contractual undiscounted cash flows
Less than one year
 12,201.84
 11,854.93
One to five years
 18,256.19
 30,118.51
More than five years
47.52
 387.04
Total undiscounted lease liabilities
 30,505.55
 42,360.48
6.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
281
Lease liabilities included in the Balance Sheet (discounted)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current
 9,723.00
8,391.16
Non-current
 16,271.15
25,990.37
Amounts recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Interest on lease liabilities
 3,467.54
 4,565.39
Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities
 10,519.82
 8,625.70
Expenses relating to short-term leases
 505.94
 549.64
Amounts recognised in Statement of Cash Flow
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash outflow for leases
4,794.99
3,234.40
Interest on lease liabilities (included in finance cost paid)
3,467.54
4,565.39
Total cash outflow for leases
8,262.53
7,799.79
	
	
Variable lease payment based on sales
	
	
Some leases of clinical establishments (Land, Building and Medical equipment) contain variable lease payments that are 
based on sales that the Company makes at the respective hospital. Variable rental payments are as follows:
Particulars
Variable payments
Estimated annual impact on 
rent of a 1% increase in sales
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at March 
31, 2024
Lease with lease payment based on sales
10,519.82
8,625.70
105.20
86.26
	
(b)	 As a lessor
	
	
Assets given on operating lease:
	
	
The Company had sub-leased some portion of hospital premises, carrying value of which is included in buildings (refer note 
7(a) and 5(i)(a)). In all the cases, either of the parties had option to terminate the agreements at any time during the lease 
term. The total lease income in respect of the above leases recognised /in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year are 
` 11.20 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 ` 4.07 Lakhs).
	
	
The Company has also leased out certain property, plant and equipment on operating lease to a trust managing hospital 
operations. The lease term is renewable at the option of the lessor. The total lease payment received in respect of such 
leases recognised in the statement of profit and loss for the year are ` 514.00 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 ` 581.06 Lakhs).
	
	
The details of the capital assets given on operating lease are as under:
(` in Lakhs)
Plant and 
machinery
Medical 
equipment
Furniture 
and fittings
Computers
Office 
equipment
Total
As at March 31, 2025
Cost or deemed cost
61.51
 3,471.31
 118.52
 7.31
2.05
 3,660.70
Accumulated Depreciation
61.51
2,898.91
118.52
7.31
2.05
3,088.30
Carrying Value
-
572.40
-
-
-
572.40
7.
LEASES (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
282
(` in Lakhs)
Plant and 
machinery
Medical 
equipment
Furniture 
and fittings
Computers
Office 
equipment
Total
As at March 31, 2024
Cost or deemed cost
91.59
 3,472.10
 121.42
 7.31
2.05
 3,694.48
Accumulated Depreciation
91.59
2,761.36
121.42
7.31
2.05
2,983.73
Carrying Value
-
710.74
-
-
-
710.75
	
	
There are no future minimum lease payments receivable under the non-cancellable operating leases
8.
BORROWINGS
	
(i)	
Secured Loans
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Non-
Current
Current
Total
Non-
Current
Current
Total
Bank overdraft
(a)
-
587.24
587.24
-
1518.10
1518.10
Term Loan from Bank – HSBC
(b)
18,639.66
80.00
18,719.66
25,096.75
608.52
25,705.27
Term Loan from Bank – DBS 
Bank India Limited
(c)
-
-
-
215.25
608.28
823.53
Vehicle Loan from ICICI Bank 
Limited
(d)
179.17
90.60
269.77
93.46
67.14
160.60
Non 
Convertible 
Debentures 
(“NCD”)
(e)
155,000.00
- 155,000.00
-
-
-
Total
173,818.83
757.84 174,576.67
25,405.46
2,802.04
28,207.50
7.
LEASES (Contd.)
	
	
(a)	
The overdraft facility from The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
(“HSBC”) is secured against first pari passu 
charge over moveable fixed assets of the 
Company both present and future except the 
machinery, vehicles specifically financed by other 
banks/financial institutions and first pari-passu 
charge on the current assets of the Company 
both present and future with rate of interest 
being HSBC overnight MCLR/1 month MCLR or 
any other rate as may be agreed. As on March 
31, 2025, the outstanding balance of overdraft 
is ` 587.24 Lakhs. (Balance outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 was ` 1,518.10 Lakhs).
	
	
(b)	
Term loan facilities from The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
(“HSBC”) are secured against the first pari-
passu charge on moveable fixed and current 
assets of the Company except machineries and 
vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge 
cumulatively on certain immoveable fixed assets 
of International Hospital Limited (IHL) (situated 
at Noida and Faridabad), Fortis Hospotel Limited 
(FHTL) (Situated at Gurugram), and Hospitalia 
Eastern Private Limited (HEPL) (Mall Road, 
Ludhiana) with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
	
	
	
Subsequent to year ended March 31, 2025, the 
security cover for term loan facilities secured by 
charge over aforementioned immovable fixed 
assets has been reduced to 1.1x from 1.25x. 
Further, the charge over movable fixed assets 
and current assets as security for term loan 
facilities stands waived.
	
	
	
Further, during the current year, the Company 
has prepaid facilities amounting to ` 5,625 
Lakhs (repayable in equal quarterly installments 
starting from November, 2025 till August 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
283
8.
BORROWINGS (Contd.)
2029) and ` 1,371.29 Lakhs (was repayable in 
quarterly instalments ending on August 2026).
	
	
	
Out of total term loan facilities, ` 18,379.66 
Lakhs (previous year 23,933.98 Lakhs) is 
repayable in equal quarterly instalment starting 
from November 2025 till August 2029, ` 340 
Lakhs (previous year ` 400 Lakhs) is repayable 
in equal quarterly instalment starting from 
September 2024 till June 2029 and Nil (previous 
year ` 1,371.29 Lakhs) is repayable in equal 
quarterly instalment starting from November 
2020 till August 2026.
	
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, the outstanding balance 
of term loans are ` 18,719.66 Lakhs (Balance 
outstanding as on March 31, 2024 was 
` 25,705.27 Lakhs).
	
	
	
In the previous year, the loan was additionally 
secured by the charge on immovable fixed 
assets of Escorts Heart and Super Speciality 
Hospital Limited (immovable property situated 
in Mohali) which has been released by the bank 
in the current year.
	
	
(c)	
Term loan facilities from DBS Bank India Limited 
with interest rate of DBS 3/12 months MCLR 
plus 1% margin or any other rate as may be 
mutually agreed upon basis is secured by:
	
	
	
(i)	
First ranking pari passu charge over 
current assets and moveable fixed assets 
of the Company, and
	
	
	
(ii)	
First and exclusive charge over certain 
immovable fixed assets of Escorts Heart 
and Super Speciality Hospital Limited 
located at Jaipur, Rajasthan with a security 
cover of minimum 1.33x. In May 2024, 
the security cover has been reduced to 
1.25x.
	
	
	
During the current year, the Company has fully 
prepaid facilities amounting to ` 183.45 Lakhs 
(repayable in structured monthly instalments 
starting from December, 2020 till September 
2025) and ` 640.08 Lakhs (was repayable 
in equal quarterly instalments starting from 
December 2021 till September 2025).
	
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, the outstanding balance 
of term loan is ` Nil. (Balance outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 was ` 823.53 Lakhs.).
	
	
(d)	
During earlier years, the Company had availed 
vehicle loan from ICICI Bank Limited with rate of 
interest in the range of 7.25% p.a. to 9.15 % p.a. 
The loans are repayable in 48 structured monthly 
instalments and secured against hypothecation 
of the specific vehicle purchased. During the 
current year, the Company has availed additional 
vehicle loan of ` 195.53 Lakhs from ICICI Bank 
Limited with rate of interest in the range of 
9.00% p.a. to 9.15% p.a. As on March 31, 
2025, the outstanding balance of vehicle loan 
is ` 269.77 Lakhs. (Balance outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 was ` 160.60 Lakhs).
	
	
(e)	
During the current year, FHL issued 1,55,000 
Listed Rated Senior Secured Non Convertible 
Debentures (“NCDs”) issued to foreign portfolio 
investors and other categories of investors 
eligible under applicable law of ` 1,00,000 
each. The NCDs are secured by a pledge over 
equity shares held by the Company in Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited providing a security cover 
of 1.33 times of the outstanding Debentures.
	
	
	
The NCDs carry an interest rate of 12 months 
implied modified MIFOR + Fixed Spread of 192 
bps and are redeemable in 4 non-equal annual 
instalments (including interest) starting from 
December 2026 to December 2029.
	
(ii)	 Unsecured Loans
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Non-Current
Current
Non-Current
Current
Loans from subsidiary companies
5(xv)
-
3,282.03
-
3,353.03
Total
-
3,282.03
-
3,353.03
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
284
	
	
During earlier years, the Company had availed 
unsecured loan from its subsidiary company, Stellant 
Capital Advisory Services Private Limited, of ` 4,265 
Lakhs with rate of interest of 9.05% p.a. (previous 
year 9.15% p.a.) which is repayable on or before 
March 31, 2026 (previous year: March 31, 2025).
	
	
During the current year, the Company has repaid 
unsecured loan of ` 71.00 Lakhs (previous year 
` 25.00 Lakhs). The outstanding balance of unsecured 
loan is ` 3,282.03 Lakhs. (Balance outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 ` 3,353.03 Lakhs).
8.
BORROWINGS (Contd.)
	
(iii)	 The Company has obtained borrowings/debentures 
from banks, financial institutions and other lenders 
on the basis of security which includes current assets 
and has filed necessary statements with banks or 
financial institutions which are in agreement with the 
books of accounts.
	
(iv)	 The Company has used the borrowings/debentures 
from banks, financial institutions and other lenders 
for the specific purpose for which it was taken.
9.
COMMITMENTS:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account
-	
Property plant and equipment (refer note 35)
2,601.94
9,457.60
-	
Intangible Assets (refer note 20)
15,028.68
52.83
[net of capital advances of ` 5,148.17 Lakhs (as at March 31, 2024 
` 176.03 Lakhs)]
	
a.	
Going concern support in form of funding and 
operational support letters issued by the Company 
in favour of Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly 
known as Fortis La Femme Limited), FCCL, Fortis 
C-Doc Healthcare Limited, FHMEL, FESL, FGHML, 
FAHPL, Birdie & Birdie Realtors Private Limited, HEPL 
and IHL.
	
b.	
As part of Sponsor Agreement entered between 
The Trustee-Manager of RHT Health Trust (formerly 
known as Religare Health Trust), Fortis Global 
Healthcare Infrastructure Pte. Limited and Hospital 
Service Companies (collectively for International 
Hospital Limited, Fortis Hospotel Limited, Escorts 
Heart and Super Specialty Hospitals Limited and 
Fortis Health Management Limited) (collectively 
referred as ‘Indemnified parties’) with the Company, 
the Company has undertaken to indemnify (“Tax 
Indemnity”) each of the Hospital Services Companies 
and their respective directors, officers, employees and 
agents (the “Investing Parties”) against tax liabilities 
(including interest and penalties levied in accordance 
with the Income tax Act and any cost in relation 
thereto) which these Investing Parties may incur due 
to the non-allowance of interest on Compulsorily 
Convertible 
Debentures 
(CCDs) 
or 
Optionally 
Convertible Debentures (OCDs) in the hands of the 
Hospital service Companies. Accordingly, Company 
has accrued ` 205.03 Lakhs (as at March 31, 2024 
` 205.03 Lakhs) as provision for contingency.
	
c.	
The Company does not have any long-term 
commitments 
or 
material 
non-cancellable 
contractual 
commitments/ 
contracts, 
including 
derivative contracts for which there were any 
material foreseeable losses.
	
d.	
These were no amount which were required to 
be transferred to be the investor education and 
protection fund by the Company.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
285
10. The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the Company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and has invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under active consideration 
by the Ministry. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified and will give 
appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to 
determine the financial impact are published.
11. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES TO THE EXTENT NOT PROVIDED FOR:
	
A.	
Claims against the Company, disputed by the Company, not acknowledged as debt (In addition, refer claims 
assessed as contingent liability described in Note 20, 21 and 22 below):
 (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Income tax
 6,486.48
 6,218.73
Medical related
 5,558.76
 6,281.69
VAT
 3,621.17
 3,621.17
Service Tax and GST
 4,470.64
 4,457.78
Others
175.00
-
Grand Total
20,312.05
20,579.37
	
	
On 28 February 2019, a judgment of the Supreme 
Court of India interpreting certain statutory defined 
contribution obligations of employees and employers 
(the “India Defined Contribution Obligation”) 
altered historical understandings of such obligations, 
extending them to cover additional portions of the 
employee’s income to measure obligations under 
employees Provident Fund Act, 1952. There is 
significant uncertainty as to how the liability should 
be calculated as it is impacted by multiple variables, 
including the period of assessment, the application 
with respect to certain current and former employees 
and whether interest and penalties may be assessed. 
The Company has been legally advised not to 
consider that there is any probable obligations for 
periods prior to date of aforesaid judgment.
	
	
Additionally, the Company is involved in other 
disputes, lawsuits, claims, governmental and/or 
regulatory inspections, inquiries, assessments and 
proceedings, including commercial matters that arise 
from time to time in the ordinary course of business.
	
	
The Company believes that none of the above 
matters, either individually or in aggregate, are 
expected to have any material adverse effect on its 
financial statements. The cash flows in respect of 
above matters are determinable only on receipt of 
judgements/decisions pending at various stages/
forums.
	
B.	
Claims not assessed as contingent liability and 
not provided for, unless otherwise stated:
	
	
A Civil Suit filed by a Party (“Plaintiff”) before the 
District Court, Delhi in February 2018 against 
various entities including the Company (together 
“the defendants”) has been dismissed due to non-
prosecution on November 24, 2023. It was filed 
against the Company/ its diagnostic subsidiary 
& other entities seeking declaration that it has 
implied ownership of brands “Fortis”, “SRL” and 
“La-Femme” and for restraining the defendants 
from alienating, encumbering, taking adverse 
action w.r.t. the same. Further, in the year 2018, 
the Company had received four notices from the 
abovenamed Plaintiff claiming (i) ` 1,800.00 Lakhs 
as per notices dated May 30, 2018 and June 1, 2018 
(ii) ` 21,582.00 Lakhs as per notice dated June 4, 
2018; and (iii) ` 1,962.00 Lakhs as per notice dated 
June 4, 2018. All these notices were responded to by 
the Company denying any liability whatsoever. The 
Learned District Court had passed an ex-parte order 
that any transaction done in favour of a third- party 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
286
affecting interest of the Plaintiff shall be subject to 
orders passed in the civil suit. With the dismissal of 
the suit, the ex-parte order stands vacated. Also refer 
note 20.
	
	
A Third Party who had applied for being substituted 
in place of the Plaintiff, had approached the Hon’ble 
Delhi High Court for seeking certain interim reliefs 
against the Company under the provisions of The 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and had 
also filed a claim for damages and injunctive reliefs 
against the Company before International Chamber 
of Commerce (ICC). The Company had invited the 
attention of ICC to the aforesaid pending litigations 
before various Courts and non-maintainability of 
claim raised by said Third party. Proceedings before 
Delhi High Court were withdrawn by Third Party on 
February 24, 2020. Further, arbitration before ICC 
had also been withdrawn by Third Party on February 
23, 2020 and the same was closed by ICC on 
February 28, 2020. The Company filed an application 
for perjury against the Third Party and other entities 
which is pending before the Delhi High Court. 
During the year ended March 31, 2022, signatories 
of Third Party to the Term Sheet dated December 6, 
2017 (‘Term Sheet’) had also filed a duly affirmed 
affidavit before Delhi High Court stating that Term 
Sheet was neither signed on behalf of the Company 
before them nor did it ever come in force.
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, another 
Party, claiming to be an assignee of the above 
named Third Party filed a case against 28 named 
defendants, including the Company and its ultimate 
parent Company IHH, and 21 non-party defendants, 
including the Company in the United States District 
Court, District of New Jersey, USA. Notice of the 
case was never served on the Company under the 
Hague Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial 
and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial 
Matters. In December 2021, a notice of this case was 
served to IHH which was subsequently disclosed by it 
to Bursa Stock Exchange, Malaysia. Company learnt 
that the case had been filed for alleged violation of, 
inter-alia, the U.S. Racketeer, Influenced and Corrupt 
Organisations Act, copyright infringement, tortious 
interference with contracts, etc. and Party had 
claimed damages in excess of US$ 6.5 billion against 
all the defendants. Company also made disclosure 
about this case to stock exchange. Vide order dated 
September 7, 2022, case has been dismissed by 
United States District Court, New Jersey on grounds 
of forum non convenience. During the year ended 
March 31, 2023 another Party, claiming to be an 
assignee of the Third Party initiated arbitration 
proceedings wherein an ex-parte Interim Award 
was passed which was subsequently terminated 
by the Learned Arbitrator. Neither any notice nor 
any statement of claim has been received by the 
Company of the arbitration proceedings. Company 
will seek legal advice and pray for dismissal of 
this arbitration proceedings, as and when served. 
Company has filed a Civil Suit against the said third 
party and others inter alia challenging their locus and 
seeking permanent injunction against their actions, 
which is sub-judice before the Hon’ble High Court of 
Delhi.
	
	
Separately, the Third Party had also alleged rights to 
invest in the Company. It had also alleged failure on 
part of the Company to abide by the aforementioned 
Term Sheet and has claimed ownership over the 
brands as well.
	
	
Allegations made by the Third party have been duly 
responded to by the Company denying (i) execution 
of any binding agreement with the Party and (ii) 
liability of any kind whatsoever.
	
	
Based on external legal advice, the Management 
believes that the claims are without legal basis and 
are not tenable and accordingly no adjustment is 
required in the financial statements with respect to 
these claims.
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN:
	
Defined Contribution Plan
	
The Company’s contribution towards its Provident Fund 
Scheme and Employee State Insurance Scheme are defined 
contribution retirement plan for qualifying employees. The 
Company’s contribution to the Employees Provident Fund 
is deposited with Provident Fund Commissioner which is 
recognised by the Income Tax authorities.
11. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES TO THE EXTENT NOT PROVIDED FOR: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
287
	
The Company recognised ` 846.16 Lakhs (Previous year ` 566.19 Lakhs) for Provident Fund, Employee State Insurance and 
Labour Welfare Fund contribution in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The Contribution payable to the plan by the Company is 
at the rate specified in rules to the scheme.
	
Defined Benefit Plan
	
(i)	
Gratuity
	
	
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan, where each employee who has completed five years or more of service 
gets a gratuity on departure at 15 days salary (last drawn basic salary) for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs 
upon completion of 5 years of service. The Gratuity plan is unfunded.
	
	
The following table summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
and the amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet.
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i.	
Movement in Net Liability
	
Present value of obligation at the beginning of the year
2,290.06
2,033.86
	
Current service cost
266.20
249.09
	
Interest cost
155.82
138.95
	
Amount recognised in OCI
193.87
50.80
	
Obligation transferred (to)/from (net)
(9.14)
(34.31)
	
Benefits paid
(127.51)
(148.33)
	
Present value of obligations at the end of the year
2,769.30
2,290.06
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Present value of unfunded obligation
Amounts in the Balance Sheet
(a)	
Liabilities
2,769.30
2,290.06
(b)	
Assets
-
-
(c)	
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet
2,769.30
2,290.06
Current Liability
488.98
287.46
Non-Current Liability
2,280.32
2,002.60
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
ii.	
Expense recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss is as follows:
	
Amount recognised in employee benefit expense
	
Service cost
266.20
249.09
	
Past Service Cost
-
-
Total
266.20
249.09
	
Amount recognised in finance cost
	
Interest cost
. 155.82
138.95
Total
155.82
138.95
Total Amount charged to Statement to Profit and Loss
422.02
388.01
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
288
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
iii.	
Expense recognised in Statement of Other comprehensive income is as 
follows:
	
Net actuarial loss due to experience adjustment recognised during the 
year
(89.38)
(4.58)
	
Net actuarial loss due to assumptions changes recognised during the 
year
(104.49)
(46.22)
Total
(193.87)
(50.80)
	
	
The Principal assumptions used in determining gratuity and compensated absences obligation for the Company’s plan are 
shown below:
Principal Actuarial assumptions for gratuity and compensated 
absences
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Discounting rate (p.a.)
6.50%
7.00%
Expected salary increase rate (p.a.)
7.50%
7.50%
Withdrawal rate
Age up to 30 years
18%
18%
Age from 31 to 44 years
6%
6%
Age above 44 years
2%
2%
Mortality table used
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2006-08)
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2006-08)
Experience (gain)/loss adjustments on plan liabilities
48.97
48.97
	
	
Notes:
	
	
a)	
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation is 9 years (Previous year: 9 years).
	
	
b)	
The estimates of future salary increase, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
	
	
c)	
Significant actuarial assumption for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, expected salary 
escalation rate and withdrawal rate. The sensitivity analyses below have been determined by the actuarial based on 
reasonably possible changes of the respective assumption occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding 
all other assumptions constant.
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Change in discount rate by 0.50%
(104.55)
112.65
(87.27)
93.86
Change in salary escalation rate by 1%
229.75
(201.82)
192.20
(169.37)
Change in withdrawal rate by 5%
(85.34)
88.37
(43.72)
44.16
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN: (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
289
	
	
Expected benefit payments for the future years:
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 2026
Year ended 
March 31, 2027
Year ended 
March 31, 2028
Year ended 
March 31, 2029
Year ended 
March 31, 2030
Year ended 
March 31, 2031 to year 
ended March 31, 2035
498.38
239.28
182.77
269.53
274.00
1650.32
	
(ii)	 Provident Fund:
	
	
The Company made monthly contributions to 
provident fund managed by trust for qualifying 
employees. Such contributions for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 are Nil (Previous year ` 280.56 
Lakhs). Under the scheme, the Company is required 
to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll 
costs to fund the benefits. As per Ind AS 19 on 
“Employee Benefits”, employer established provident 
fund trusts are treated as defined benefit plans, since 
the Company is obliged to meet interest shortfall, if 
any, with respect to covered employees.
	
	
During the previous year, the Company has 
surrendered the recognition granted to the PF Trust 
in the name of Fortis Healthcare Limited Provident 
Fund Trust (FHL PF Trust) with effect from August 
01, 2023. Accordingly, the entire corpus in respect 
of all the active and inactive employees has been 
transferred to the office of Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner (RPFC), Delhi (South).
13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
	
i)	
Capital Management
	
	
The Company manages its capital to ensure that the 
Company will be able to continue as going concern 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through 
the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
	
	
The capital structure of the Company consists of net 
debt (borrowings as detailed in notes 5(xv), and 8(i) 
offset by cash and bank balances) and total equity of 
the Company.
	
	
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed 
capital requirements other than for covenants under 
various loan arrangements of the Company.
	
	
The Company’s Board reviews the capital structure of 
the Company on need basis. As part of this review, 
the Board considers the cost of capital and the 
risks associated with each class of capital. Amongst 
other things, the Company’s objective for capital 
management is to ensure that it maintains stable 
capital management by monitoring the financial 
covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings.
	
	
Gearing ratio
	
	
The gearing ratio at end of the reporting period was as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Debt*
207,541.61
65,984.39
Less: Cash and cash equivalents [Refer note 5(xii)]
(4,896.09)
(2,055.27)
Net debt
202,645.52
63,929.12
Total equity
9,07,400.26
9,08,716.47
Net debt to equity ratio
22.33%
7.04%
	
	
*Debt is defined as non-current and current borrowings (including lease liabilities, interest accrued on borrowings and 
excluding derivative and financial guarantee contracts).
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN: (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
290
	
(ii)	 Financial risk management objectives
	
	
The Company’s Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and 
international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks including market risk (including currency risk, 
interest rate risk and other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
	
The Board of Directors manages the financial risk of the Company through internal risk reports which analyze exposure 
by magnitude of risk. The Company has limited exposure from the international market as the Company’s operations are 
in India. However, the Company has limited exposure towards foreign currency risk as it earns up to 10% of its revenue 
from foreign currency from international patients. Also, capital expenditure includes capital goods purchased in foreign 
currency through the overseas vendors. The Company has not taken any significant derivative contracts to hedge the 
exposure. However, the exposure towards foreign currency fluctuation is partly hedged naturally on account of receivable 
from customers and payable to vendors in foreign currency.
	
	
Market risks
	
	
The Company’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange 
rates.
	
	
a)	
Foreign currency risk management
	
	
	
The Company undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies and consequently, exposures to exchange 
rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters.
	
	
	
The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars
Currency
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Foreign Currency 
in Lakhs
Equivalent 
` in Lakhs
Foreign Currency 
in Lakhs
Equivalent 
` in Lakhs
Trade payables
US$
0.27
22.87
0.13
10.36
Trade payables
EUR
0.10
9.23
-
-
Other payables
US$
-
-
0.09
7.69
Trade receivables
US$
0.19
15.91
0.16
13.17
Cash in hand
US$
0.10
8.74
-
-
	
	
	
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
	
	
	
The Company is mainly exposed to US$ and EUR currency.
	
	
	
The following table details the Company’s sensitivity to a 5% increase and decrease in the ` against US$ and EUR. 
5% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity 
analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at 
the period end for a 5% change in foreign currency rates. This analysis assumes that all other variables in particular 
interest rates, remain constant. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit/decrease in loss or equity 
where the ` strengthens 5% against US$/EUR. For a 5% weakening of the ` against US$/EUR, there would be a 
comparable impact on the profit or equity, and the balances below would be negative.
13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
291
(` in Lakhs)
If increase by 5%
Currency Impact US$
Currency Impact EUR
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit or loss 
for the year
(0.09)
0.24
0.46
-
Impact on total equity
(0.07)
0.16
0.35
-
If decrease by 5%
Currency Impact US$
Currency Impact EUR
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit or loss 
for the year
0.09
(0.24)
(0.46)
-
Impact on total equity
0.07
(0.16)
(0.35)
-
	
	
	
Foreign exchange derivatives financial instruments
	
	
	
The Company uses derivative for hedging financial risks that arise from its commercial business activities. The group’s 
Corporate Treasury team manages its foreign currency risk by hedging key transactions that are expected to occur 
within 12 months for hedges of forecasted purchases and capital expenditures. When a derivative is entered into 
for the purpose of being a hedge, the Company negotiates the terms of those derivatives to match the terms of 
the hedged exposure. For hedges of forecast transactions, the derivatives cover the period of exposure from the 
point the cash flows of the transactions are forecasted up to the point of settlement of the resulting payable that is 
denominated in the foreign currency.
	
	
	
The following table details the foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at the end of the reporting periods:
Maturity
Outstanding 
Contracts
No. of Deals
Contract value of 
foreign Currency
(` In Lakhs)
Up to 12 months
Nominal Amount
(` In Lakhs)
More than 
12 months
Nominal Amount
(` In Lakhs)
As at
March 
31, 2025
As at
March 
31, 2024
As at
March 
31, 2025
As at
March 
31, 2024
As at
March 
31, 2025
As at
March 
31, 2024
As at
March 
31, 2025
As at
March 
31, 2024
US$/` Buy forward
1
-
52.95
-
53.37
-
-
-
	
	
b)	
Interest rate risk management
	
	
	
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk because the Company borrows funds at both fixed and floating 
interest rates. The interest rate on the Company’s borrowings are based on market rates. The Company monitors the 
movement in interest rates on an ongoing basis.
	
	
	
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
	
	
	
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the end of the 
reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding 
at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50-basis point increase or decrease is used 
when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment 
of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
292
(` in Lakhs)
If increase by 50 basis point
Interest impact
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit or loss for the year
(871.53)
(141.04)
Impact on total equity
(652.19)
(91.75)
(` in Lakhs)
If decrease by 50 basis point
Interest impact
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit or loss for the year
871.53
141.04
Impact on total equity
652.19
91.75
	
	
c)	
Other price risks
	
	
	
The Company’s investment is in group companies and are held for strategic purposes rather than for trading purposes.
	
	
d)	
Credit risk management
	
	
	
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to 
the Company. The Company takes due care while extending any credit as per the approval matrix approved by Board 
of Directors.
	
	
	
The Company does not have any significant concentration of exposures to specific markets.
	
	
	
Refer note 5(v) of the standalone financial statements for carrying amount and maximum credit risk exposure for 
trade receivables.
	
	
	
Expected credit loss on financial assets other than trade receivables:
	
	
	
Company carries other financial assets such as balances with banks, advances, security deposits, loans to body 
corporates and interest accrued on such loans etc. Company monitors the credit exposure on these financial assets on 
a case-to-case basis. Loans to subsidiaries are assessed for credit risk based on the underlying valuation of the entity 
and their ability to repay within the contractual repayment terms. Company creates loss allowance wherever there is 
an indication that credit risk has increased significantly. Other the credit impaired financial assets as mentioned below, 
based on historical experience, the Company does not expect any significant risk of default.
	
	
	
The Company does not have any significant concentration of exposures to specific markets.
	
	
	
Reconciliation of loss allowance measured at life-time expected credit losses for credit impaired financial assets other 
than trade receivables:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
4,693.53
4,704.82
(Gain)/ Loss allowance recognised
672.79
(11.29)
Balance at the end of the year
5,366.32
4,693.53
13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
293
	
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances
	
	
	
The Company held cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances as disclosed in note 5(xii)(a). The cash and cash 
equivalents and other bank balances are held with banks, which have high credit ratings assigned by credit-rating 
agencies.
	
	
	
The Company considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of 
the counterparties.
	
	
	
The Company uses a similar approach for assessment of ECLs for cash and cash equivalents to those used for debt 
securities.
	
	
e)	
Liquidity risk management
	
	
	
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has established an 
appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Company’s short-term, medium-term 
and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining 
adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual 
cash flows, and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
	
	
	
Note given below sets out details of additional undrawn facilities that the Company has at its disposal to further 
reduce liquidity risk.
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2025:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Sanctioned limit
Undrawn limit
HSBC Bank (term loan)
24,715.00
6,000.00
HSBC Bank (overdraft facility)
4,600.00
4,012.76
DBS Bank (overdraft facility)
200.00
200.00
Axis Bank Limited (Working Capital/overdraft facility)
2,000.00
2,000.00
IDBI Bank Limited (overdraft facility)
2,500.00
2,500
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Sanctioned limit
Undrawn limit
HSBC Bank (term loan)
33,374.00
6,000.00
HSBC Bank (overdraft facility)
4,600.00
2,981.90
DBS Bank (term loan)
3,266.53
-
DBS Bank (overdraft facility)
200.00
200.00
Axis Bank Limited (Working Capital/overdraft facility)
2,000.00
2,000.00
	
	
	
Liquidity and interest risk tables
	
	
	
The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities 
with agreed repayment periods. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial 
liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company can be required to pay.
	
	
	
The tables include both interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the 
undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the end of the reporting period.
	
	
	
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Company may be required to pay.
13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
294
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Within 1 
year
1-2 year
More than 
2 years
Total
Carrying 
amount
As at March 31, 2025
Lease liabilities
12,201.84
12,559.25
5,744.46
30,505.55
25,994.15
Term loan
1,858.23
6,867.81
14,925.97
23,652.01
18,989.43
Non-Convertible Debentures
13,793.45
36,470.93
153,715.60
203,979.98
155,000.00
Bank Overdraft
587.24
-
-
587.24
587.24
Trade payables
66,950.97
-
-
66,950.97
66,950.97
Security Deposit
6.56
-
-
6.56
6.56
Interest accrued and not due on 
borrowings
3,651.89
-
-
3,651.89
3,651.89
Interest accrued and due on 
borrowings
36.87
-
-
36.87
36.87
Capital creditors
5,588.21
-
-
5,588.21
5,588.21
Technology renewal fund
143.20
-
-
143.20
143.20
Loans from subsidiary companies
3,282.03
-
-
3,282.03
3,282.03
Employee payable
2,783.75
-
-
2,783.75
2,783.75
Unpaid equity dividend
43.71
-
-
43.71
43.71
Other liabilities
718.83
-
-
718.83
718.83
Total
111,646.78
55,897.99
174,386.03
341,930.80
283,776.84
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Within 1 
year
1-2 year
More than 
2 years
Total
Carrying 
amount
As at March 31, 2024
Lease liabilities
11,854.93
12,201.84
18,304.00
42,360.77
34,381.53
Term loan
3,597.87
6,088.20
25,327.89
35,013.96
26,689.40
Bank Overdraft
1,518.10
-
-
1,518.10
1,518.10
Trade payables
51,854.53
-
-
51,854.53
51,854.53
Security Deposit
2.10
-
-
2.10
2.10
Interest accrued and due on 
borrowings
42.33
-
-
42.33
42.33
Capital creditors
1,826.08
-
-
1,826.08
1,826.08
Technology renewal fund
115.20
-
-
115.20
115.20
Loans from subsidiary companies
3,656.48
-
-
3,656.48
3,353.03
Employee payable
2,523.22
-
-
2,523.22
2,523.22
Unpaid Equity dividend
28.55
-
-
28.55
28.55
Other liabilities
387.92
-
-
387.92
387.92
Total
77,407.31
18,290.04
43,631.89
139,329.24
122,721.99
	
	
	
The Company has secured bank loans that contain loan covenants. A future breach of covenants may require the Company 
to repay the loans earlier than indicated in the above table. Borrowings from HSBC and DBS will become repayable on 
demand if the Company’s EBITDA to loan ratio exceeds 4. Under the agreements, the covenants are monitored on a regular 
basis by the treasury department and regularly reported to management to ensure compliance with the agreements.
	
	
	
The debentures shall become immediately due for redemption if the Company’s net external debt to EBITDA ratio 
exceeds 4x or in case the Company incurs any financial indebtedness other than the permitted indebtedness as per 
debenture trust deed.
13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
295
14. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Carrying value*
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Amortised cost
Total
Financial assets
Investment in non-convertible bonds/preference 
shares of subsidiaries
(b)
 -
46,481.34
46,481.34
Loans (Non-current)
(b)
-
1,669.20
1,669.20
Loans (Current)
(a)
-
8,623.29
8,623.29
Other financial assets (Non-current)
(b)
-
87.84
87.84
Trade receivables
(a)
-
18,131.98
18,131.98
Cash and cash equivalents
(a)
-
4,896.09
4,896.09
Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
(a)
-
49.08
49.08
Other financial assets (current)
(a)
-
4,827.98
4,827.98
Derivative assets (current)
(e)
0.42
-
0.42
Total
0.42
84,766.80
84,767.22
Particulars
Note
Carrying value
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Amortised cost
Total
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings (Non-current)
(c)
-
173,818.83
173,818.83
Borrowings (current)
(c)
-
4,039.87
4,039.87
Lease liabilities (Non-current)
(d)
-
16,271.15
16,271.15
Lease liabilities (current)
(d)
-
9,723.00
9,723.00
Trade payables (current)
(a)
-
66,950.97
66,950.97
Other financial liabilities (current)
(a)
-
12,973.02
12,973.02
Total
-
283,776.84
283,776.84
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
296
	
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Carrying value*
Fair value through 
profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Amortised cost
Total
Financial assets
Investment in non-convertible bonds/preference 
shares of subsidiaries
(b)
 -
82,428.46
82,428.46
Loans (Non-current)
(b)
-
1,605.17
1,605.17
Loan (Current)
(a)
-
16,099.27
16,099.27
Other financial assets (Non-current)
(b)
-
97.37
97.37
Trade receivables
(a)
-
13,122.19
13,122.19
Cash and cash equivalents
(a)
-
2,055.27
2,055.27
Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
(a)
-
9,939.42
9,939.42
Other financial assets (current)
(a)
-
21,043.16
21,043.16
Total
-
146,390.31
146,390.31
Financial Liabilities
Note
Carrying value
Fair value through
profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Amortised cost
Total
Borrowings
(c)
-
25,405.46
25,405.46
Borrowings (current)
(a)
-
6,155.07
6,155.07
Lease liabilities
(d)
-
25,990.37
25,990.37
Lease liabilities (current)
(d)
-
8,391.16
8,391.16
Trade payables (current)
(a)
-
51,854.53
51,854.53
Other financial liabilities (current)
(a)
-
4,925.40
4,925.40
Total
-
122,721.99
122,721.99
The following methods/assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
	
(a)	 Fair valuation of financial assets and liabilities with short term maturities is considered as approximate to respective carrying 
amount due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
	
(b)	 Fair valuation of non-current financial assets and liabilities has been disclosed to be same as carrying value as there is no 
significant difference between carrying value and fair value.
	
(c)	
The Company’s borrowings have been contracted at floating rates of interest, which resets at short intervals. Accordingly, 
the carrying value of such borrowings (including interest accrued but not due) approximates fair value.
	
(d)	 Fair value measurement of lease liabilities is not required.
	
(e)	 The fair value is based on mark to market value as provided by the issuing banks.
	
There are no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
	
*excludes investment in subsidiaries of ` 971,343.89 Lakhs (Previous year ` 800,975.18 Lakhs) which are shown at carrying 
value (net of impairment) in balance sheet as per Ind AS 27 “Separate Financial Statements”.
14. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
297
	
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
	
The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost in the financial statements are a 
reasonable approximation of their fair values since the Company does not anticipate that the carrying amounts would be 
significantly different from the values that would eventually be received or settled.
15. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
	
(a)	
The Company had an investment aggregating to ` 76,919.72 Lakhs in Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited 
(‘EHIRCL’) on which impairment loss of ` 10,348.67 Lakhs had been recognised in the earlier years. During the previous 
year, there had been increase in the recoverable value of the investment, on account of amendment in terms of redeemable 
preference shares issued by Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte Limited (FAHPL) to EHIRCL. Post this amendment, EHIRCL had been 
given a first preference right of settlement over other instrument holders. The fair value of FAHPL has been determined 
based the quoted market value (Level 1 fair value) of its on its further investment in Lanka Hospitals Corporation PLC and 
its own working capital. Basis this, the management had recorded a write back of impairment loss recognised in earlier 
years of ` 10,348.67 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2024 towards the amount invested
	
(b)	
The Company has an investment aggregating to ` 15,105.47 Lakhs in Fortis Healthcare International Limited. The 
enterprise value of Fortis Healthcare International Limited has been primarily determined based on the value recoverable 
from FAHPL and its own working capital. Due to change in the terms as mentioned in (a) above and changes in fair value 
of investment in Lanka Hospitals Corporation PLC, during the year ended March 31, 2025, the management has recorded 
the impairment loss of ` 7,405.12 Lakhs (Impairment loss of ` 1,333.23 Lakhs during the year ended March 31, 2024) 
towards the amount invested in Fortis Healthcare International Limited.
	
(c)	
The Company has an investment in unsecured 13.5% non-convertible bonds having aggregate carrying value of ` 7,172.50 
Lakhs in Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited and accrued interest thereon amounting ` 658.00 Lakhs. Basis the indicators of 
impairment, the management has performed an impairment test for the carrying value of these investments and interest 
accrued thereon. The recoverable value determined based on discounted cash flows is lower than the carrying value of 
these investments and interest accrued thereon, resulting in impairment loss of ` 4,109.16 Lakhs.
	
The recoverable amount of these investments is based on value-in-use calculations which use discounted cash flow projections. 
The fair value measurement has been categorised as Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
	
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below. The values assigned to the key 
assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant industries and have been based on historical 
data from both external and internal sources.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
(p.a.)
Discount rate (post tax)
12.26%
Terminal value growth rate
4.00%
Compound average net sales growth rate
10.32%
	
The discount rate is a post-tax measure estimated based on the historical industry’s average weighted-average cost of capital.
	
Management has identified that a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions could cause a change in the amount of 
impairment expense. The following table shows the amount by which the impairment loss/ (reversal) would change on change 
in these assumptions, all other factors remaining constant.
14. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
298
(` in Lakhs)
Increase/ (decrease) in impairment loss
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
12.04
Decrease by 1%
(15.35)
Terminal value growth rate
Increase by 2%
(22.44)
Decrease by 2%
13.69
16. SEGMENT INFORMATION
	
The Company is primarily engaged in the business of healthcare services which is the only reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 
“Operating Segments”.
	
Sales by market- Revenue from external customers by location of customers
	
The following table shows the distribution of the Company’s revenues by geographical market:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
India
144,588.57
118,142.30
Outside India
-
-
Total
144,588.57
118,142.30
	
Carrying value of non-current assets- by location of assets
	
The following table shows the carrying amount of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets 
by geographical area in which the assets are located:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
India
139,521.29
85,625.82
Outside India
-
-
Total
139,521.29
85,625.82
	
Major customer
	
The Company does not derive revenue from any customer which would amount to 10 per cent or more of the Company’s 
revenue.
17. DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES AS PER MSMED ACT, 2006
	
The Ministry of Micro and Small Enterprises has issued an office memorandum dated August 26, 2008 which recommends that 
the micro enterprises and the small enterprises should mention in their correspondences with their customers the Entrepreneur 
Memorandum Number as allocated after filing of the memorandum. Accordingly, the below information regarding dues to 
Micro and Small Enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information 
available with the Company
15. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
299
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of each accounting year:
-	
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises*
1,780.75
2,591.71
-	
Interest due on above
30.79
1.89
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED 
Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
7,809.83
-
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
-
-
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
30.79
1.89
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the 
small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure 
under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
30.79
-
	
*Note: Including payable ` 238.20 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2025 (As at March 31, 2024 ` 171.32 Lakhs) to micro 
enterprises and small enterprises included in other financial liabilities [refer note 5(xvi)]
18. DETAILS OF LOANS GIVEN TO SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES AND FIRMS/ COMPANIES IN WHICH DIRECTORS ARE 
INTERESTED
Fortis 
Hospitals 
Limited
Adayu 
Mindfulness 
Limited 
(formerly 
known as 
Fortis La 
Femme 
Limited)
Escorts 
Heart 
Institute and 
Research 
Center 
Limited
Hospitalia 
Eastern 
Private 
Limited
Artistery 
Properties 
Private 
Limited
Fortis 
Health 
Staff 
Limited
Total
March 31, 2025
Amount (gross)
-
254.23
8,202.79
250.00
1,669.20
5.00
10,381.22
Provision for loan
-
(88.73)
-
-
-
-
(88.73)
Amount (net)
-
165.50
8,202.79
250.00
1,669.20
5.00
10,292.49
Maximum Amount Outstanding
7,141.66
254.23
8,702.79
250.00
1,669.20
5.00
18,022.88
March 31, 2024
Amount (gross)
7,141.66
88.73
8,702.61
250.00
1,605.17
5.00
17,793.17
Provision for loan
-
(88.73)
-
-
-
-
(88.73)
Amount (net)
7,141.66
-
8,702.61
250.00
1,605.17
5.00
17,704.44
Maximum Amount Outstanding
7,141.66
123.73
8,702.61
250.00
1,605.17
5.00
17,828.17
17. DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES AS PER MSMED ACT, 2006 (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
300
	
The loans have been given to the subsidiaries to acquire property, plant and equipment or meet the working capital requirements 
of these companies. The particulars of loans given as required to be disclosed by Section 186 (4) of Companies Act 2013 are as 
below:
Name of the Party
Rate of Interest 
(p.a.)
Due date
Secured/
unsecured
As at
March 31, 
2025
As at
March 31, 
2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 31, 
2024
Fortis Hospitals Limited
-
9.15%
- 31-Mar-25
Unsecured
-
7,141.66
Escorts Heart Institute & Research 
center Limited
9.05%
9.15%
31-Mar-26 31-Mar-25
Unsecured
8,202.79
8,702.61
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
9.05%
9.15%
31-Mar-26 31-Mar-25
Unsecured
250.00
250.00
Fortis Health staff Limited
9.05%
9.15%
31-Mar-26 31-Mar-25
Unsecured
5.00
5.00
Artistery Properties Private Limited
9.05%
9.15%
07-Nov-28 07-Nov-28
Unsecured
1,669.20
1,605.17
Adayu Mindfulness Limited
9.05%
9.15%
31-Mar-26 31-Mar-25
Unsecured
165.50
-
Total
10,292.49 17,704.44
	
Note: The above does not include loans given to body corporates which have been fully provided for in earlier years. Also refer 
note 5(vi)
19. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
	
As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules therein, the Company is required to spend at least 2% of average net 
profit of past three years towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Details of CSR expenses, as certified by Management, 
are as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(i)	
Amount required to be spent by the Company during 
the year and approved by the board of director
147.01
68.49
(ii)	
Amount of expenditure incurred,
	
(Includes administrative expenses of Nil (previous 
year – ` 3.42 Lakhs)), 
147.01
68.49
(iii)	 Shortfall at the end of the year,
-
-
(iv)	 Total of previous years shortfall,
-
-
(v)	
Reason for shortfall,
-
-
(vi)	 Nature of CSR activities undertaken by the Company
Donation to Healthcare 
Fedration of India ` 5.00 Lakhs 
, Sattva Media and Consulting 
Pvt Ltd 4.09 Lakhs and stipend 
to National Apprenticeship 
Promotion Scheme (NAPS) 
trainees of ` 137.92 Lakhs.
Donation to Prime Minister 
cares of ` 6.05 Lakhs 
and stipend to National 
Apprenticeship Promotion 
Scheme (NAPS) trainees of 
` 9.02 Lakhs.
(vii)	 details of related party transactions, e.g., contribution 
to a trust controlled by the Company in relation to 
CSR expenditure as per relevant accounting standard,
-
Donation to Fortis CSR 
Foundation (for Mamta Health 
Institute) of ` 50.00 Lakhs.
18. DETAILS OF LOANS GIVEN TO SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES AND FIRMS/ COMPANIES IN WHICH DIRECTORS ARE 
INTERESTED (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
301
20.
A)	
The Board of Directors, after seeking inputs from reputed 
investment bankers, had approved an equity infusion 
of ` 400,000 Lakhs at a price of ` 170 per equity share 
into the Company by Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd 
Singapore (NTK) (“Acquirer”), a wholly owned subsidiary 
of IHH Healthcare Berhad, Malaysia through a preferential 
allotment (“Preferential Issue”), subject to approval of 
the shareholders and other regulatory approvals which 
constituted 31.1% share capital of the Company. The 
shareholders of the Company approved the Preferential 
Issue by requisite majority at their Extra Ordinary General 
Meeting dated August 13, 2018. The Acquirer had 
received the approval from Competition Commission 
of India (CCI) on October 30, 2018 and the preferential 
allotment was made on November 13, 2018. Pursuant to 
the consummation of the same, Northern TK Venture Pte 
Ltd, had appointed 2/3 of the directors on the Board of 
Directors of the Company, thereby acquiring control over 
the Company. Consequently, the Company has become 
a subsidiary of Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd. Further, 
pursuant to the Preferential Issue, Northern TK Venture 
Pte. Ltd is under an obligation to make a mandatory open 
offer to the public shareholders of the Company and Fortis 
Malar Hospitals Limited in accordance with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition 
of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. However, 
in view of order dated December 14, 2018 passed by 
Hon’ble Supreme Court wherein it was specified that 
status quo with regard to sale of the controlling stake 
in Fortis Healthcare Limited to Malaysian IHH Healthcare 
Berhad be maintained, the Mandatory Open offer was 
kept in abeyance. The Company had accordingly filed 
an application seeking for modification of the said order 
which has been disposed of pursuant to the judgement 
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated September 22, 
2022. Vide its judgement dated November 15, 2019, the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court had issued suo- moto contempt 
notice to, among others, the Company and directed its 
Registry to register a fresh contempt petition in regard 
to alleged violation of the its order dated December 14, 
2018. In this respect, the Hon’ble Supreme Court had 
sought an enquiry, into (i) whether the subscription by the 
Acquirer to the shares of the Company was undertaken 
after the status quo order was issued by the Hon’ble 
Court on December 14, 2018 and accordingly, if such 
subscription was in violation of this status quo order; and 
(ii) the consummation of the acquisition of healthcare 
assets from RHT Health Trust by the Company.
	
The Company had filed a detailed reply to the show 
cause notice issued in the suo- moto contempt, praying 
inter alia, that the suo- moto contempt proceedings be 
dropped and ex- parte status quo order dated December 
14, 2018 (“Status Quo Order”) be modified/ vacated such 
that Open Offer may proceed.
	
Further, at the request of SEBI by way of an application 
seeking impleadment, the Hon’ble Supreme Court 
of India had impleaded SEBI as a party in the petition 
pending before it. SEBI had prayed for allowing the 
Mandatory Open Offer. Further, the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court of India had issued notice on application filed by a 
public shareholder of the Company seeking impleadment. 
NTK had also filed an application for impleadment, 
modification of the status quo order and for proceeding 
with Mandatory Open Offer.
	
Vide judgment dated September 22, 2022 (“Judgement”), 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India disposed of Special 
Leave Petition (Civil) No. 20417 of 2017, Contempt 
Petition No. 2120 of 2018 in SLP (C) No. 20417 of 2019 
and Suo Motu Contempt Petition (C) No. 4 of 2019, which 
includes the Petition in which the Status Quo Order dated 
December 14, 2018 had been issued. It had directed the 
Hon’ble High Court of Delhi inter alia that it may also 
consider issuing appropriate process and appointing 
forensic auditor(s) to analyse the transactions entered into 
between FHL and RHT and other related transactions. In 
so far as the acquisition of proprietary interests of RHT 
Health Trust by the Company is concerned, the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court observed that prima facie, it appears to be 
acquisition of proprietary interest to subserve the business 
structure of the Company, as suggested by IHH/NTK while 
observing that it is a matter to be enquired into and facts 
to be assessed in light of any forensic analysis, if the court 
so deems appropriate.
	
Pursuant to the Judgement, Hon’ble High Court of 
Delhi vide its order dated October 18, 2022 has directed 
Decree Holder to file an application defining contours 
of the forensic audit sought, which could thereafter be 
considered by the Delhi High Court. Decree holder filed 
application(s) before Delhi High Court seeking appropriate 
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
302
directions in connection with forensic audit. Company has 
filed objections to the said request of the Decree Holder. 
Matter is pending adjudication.
	
In view of the legal positions/claim(s) and defence(s) 
available to the Company and basis external legal advice, 
the management believes that it has a strong case on 
merits. It is of the view that these transactions were 
conducted in a fair and transparent manner, after obtaining 
all relevant regulatory and shareholders’ approval and only 
after making all due disclosures to public shareholders of 
the Company and to the regulatory authorities, in the 
requisite manner. Therefore, no adjustment is required in 
the standalone Financial Statements.
B)	
Further, during the year ended March 31, 2021, in view 
of the aforesaid suo moto contempt notice, for abundant 
caution, an application was filed by the Company before 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, praying for grant 
of permission to it and its subsidiaries for changing their 
respective names, brands and logos; and for continued 
usage of the same if the said application was not disposed 
of prior to expiry of the term of the Brand License 
Agreements to allow adequate time for smooth brand 
transition without any disruption to business. During the 
year ended March 31, 2022 the Brand License Agreements 
expired. As mentioned above, the Judgment has disposed 
of the Petitions and all applications thereunder.
	
Earlier, Decree Holder had filed before the Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi certain applications praying for the 
appointment of a Court Commissioner for the purposes 
of carrying out the sale of the ‘Fortis’ marks (i.e., ‘Fortis’ 
trademarks and allied trademarks). At the request of 
Decree holder, the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi (vide 
order dated October 29, 2024) ordered for the sale of 
‘Fortis’ brand and allied trademarks by way of public 
auction and directed Joint Registrar (Judicial) Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi for this purpose. Pursuant thereto, 
the Joint Registrar appointed an auctioneer and finalised 
the proclamation of sale enumerating conditions of sale 
of ‘Fortis’ brand and allied trademarks. Proclamation was 
published on December 12, 2024 in two newspapers i.e. 
The Statesman and Navbharat Times and auction was 
carried out on December 21, 2024 where except the 
Company, no other party participated. Auctioneer opened 
the bidding with ` 20,000 Lakhs to which the Company 
agreed and was declared as the highest bidder. As per 
bid condition, ` 1,000 Lakhs was deposited as earnest 
money for participating in the auction and after being 
declared as the highest bidder, additional sum of ` 4,000 
Lakhs was deposited by the Company with the Registrar 
General- Delhi High Court on December 23, 2024. The 
Joint Registrar also submitted its report to the Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi about the auction held. Vide dated 
March 25, 2025, sale has been confirmed and concluded 
by Hon’ble High Court of Delhi and objection raised by 
brand owner as regards to the valuation of the mark has 
been rejected. Balance amount of ` 15,000 Lakhs out 
of total bid price has been deposited by the Company 
with the Registrar General- Delhi High Court on April 
4, 2025. Learned Joint Registrar- Delhi High Court vide 
its order dated April 21, 2025 has issued “Certificate of 
Sale” in favor of the Company. Appeals filed by the brand 
owner before Hon’ble Division Bench of Delhi High Court 
challenging the confirmation of sale of “Fortis” brand and 
allied trademarks have been withdrawn with the liberty 
to take actions, if any, in accordance with law. Action 
has been initiated for registration of Fortis and allied 
trademarks in favor of the Company.
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE 
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
	
A.	
Background
	
	
(i)	
During the year ended March 31 2018, there 
were reports in the media and enquiries from, 
inter alia, the stock exchanges received by 
the Company about certain inter- corporate 
loans given by a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company. The erstwhile Audit and Risk 
Management Committee of the Company 
decided to carry out an independent investigation 
through an external legal firm on this matter. 
The terms of reference of the investigation, 
inter alia, comprised: (i) ICDs amounting to a 
total of ` 49,414 Lakhs (principal), placed by 
the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, FHsL, 
with three borrowing companies as on July 
1, 2017; (ii) the assignment of these ICDs to 
a third party and the subsequent cancellation 
thereof as well as evaluation of legal notice 
(now a civil suit) received from such third party; 
(iii) review of intra-group transactions for the 
period commencing FY 2014-15 and ending 
20. (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
303
on December 31, 2017; (iv) investments made 
in certain overseas funds by the overseas 
subsidiaries of the Company (i.e. Fortis Asia 
Healthcare Pte. Ltd, Singapore and Fortis Global 
Healthcare (Mauritius) Limited) ; (v) certain 
other transactions involving acquisition of Fortis 
Healthstaff Limited (“Fortis Healthstaff”) from 
an erstwhile promoter group company, and 
subsequent repayment of loan by said subsidiary 
to the erstwhile promoter group company. The 
investigation report of which was submitted to 
the re-constituted Board in June 2018.
	
	
	
The investigation noted certain significant 
findings in relation to past transactions 
concerning FHL and its subsidiaries with 
companies whose past promoters/ directors 
were known to/ connected with the erstwhile 
promoters of the Company. All such identified 
transactions were provided for by the Company 
in the financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2018.
	
	
	
The investigation was subject to the limitations 
on the information available to the external legal 
firm and their qualifications and disclaimers 
as described in their investigation report. It 
did not cover all related party transactions 
during the period under investigation. It was 
observed in internal correspondence within the 
Company that transactions with certain other 
entities have been referred to as related party 
transactions. However, no further conclusions 
could be drawn in this regard.
	
	
(ii)	
Related party relationships as required under 
Ind AS 24 – Related Party Disclosures and 
the Companies Act, 2013 were as identified 
by the Management taking into account the 
findings and limitations in the Investigation 
Report and the information available with the 
Management. In this regard, in the absence 
of specific declarations from the erstwhile 
directors on their compliance with disclosures 
of related parties, especially considering the 
substance of the relationship rather than the 
legal form, the related parties were identified 
based on the declarations by the erstwhile 
directors and the information available through 
the known shareholding pattern in the entities 
up to March 31, 2018. Therefore, the possibility 
could not have been ruled out that there may 
have been additional related parties whose 
relationship may not have been disclosed and, 
hence, not known to the Management. While 
such references could not be fully analyzed 
during the initial investigation, the nature of 
these references raised certain concerns.
	
	
	
In order to overcome the above, additional 
procedures/ enquiries were initiated as below.
	
B.	
Additional 
procedures/enquiries 
by 
the 
reconstituted Board
	
	
(i)	
The Company’s Board of Directors initiated 
additional procedures/ enquiries of certain 
entities in the Group that were impacted in 
respect of the matters investigated by the 
external legal firm. Pending the additional 
procedures/ enquiries (“Additional Procedures/ 
Enquiries”) and since the investigation was 
subject to the limitations on the information 
available to the external legal firm and their 
qualifications and disclaimers as described in their 
investigation report, as disclosed in the audited 
financial statements for the years ended March 
31, 2018, March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 
certain audit qualifications were made in respect 
of FHL’s financial statements for those financial 
years, as the statutory auditors were unable to 
comment on the nature of those matters, the 
provisions established thereof, or any further 
potential impact on the financial statements. In 
order to resolve the same, the Board mandated 
the management to undertake review of certain 
areas in relation to historical transactions for 
the period April 1, 2014 to September 30, 
2018 involving additional matters by engaging 
independent experts with specialised forensic 
skills to assist with the Additional Procedures/
Enquiries and provide inputs and expert advice in 
connection therewith. The independent experts 
submitted their report which was discussed and 
considered by the Board in its meeting held on 
September 16, 2020.
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
304
	
	
(ii)	
The Board noted that the Additional Procedures/
Enquiries, prima facie, revealed further instances 
of payments made to the erstwhile promoter 
or to their directly or indirectly related parties 
including erstwhile promoter group entities 
which were potentially improper However, all 
of the amounts identified in the Additional 
Procedures/Enquiries 
had 
been 
previously 
provided for or expensed in the financial 
statements of FHL or its subsidiaries. There 
are no other improper transactions identified 
by the Additional Procedures/Enquiries or the 
management, which had not been expensed or 
provided.
	
	
(iii)	 In connection with the potentially improper 
transactions, the Company has undertaken 
a detailed review of each case to assess the 
Company’s legal rights and has initiated 
necessary action.
	
C.	
Key findings during the investigation by the 
external legal firm and during the Additional 
Procedures/Enquiries by independent experts
	
	
(i)	
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company, had placed secured 
Short-Term Investments in the nature of Inter 
Corporate Deposits (ICDs) with three companies 
(‘borrowers’) aggregating to ` 49,414 Lakhs 
on July 1, 2017 for a term of 90 days. Further, 
FHsL received intimation that the borrowers 
became a part of the erstwhile Promoter Group 
with effect from December 15, 2017. These 
borrowers continued to be related parties until 
February 16, 2018. subsequent to which the 
shareholding of the erstwhile Promoter Group 
in the Company was reduced to 0.77%. In 
terms of agreements dated September 30, 
2017, FHsL assigned the outstanding ICDs to a 
third party. Such assignment was subsequently 
terminated on January 5, 2018. On February 
28, 2018, these ICDs were secured by way of a 
duly registered charge on the present and future 
assets of the Borrowers. ICDs aggregating to 
` 44,503 Lakhs including interest accrued 
thereon of ` 4,260 Lakhs calculated up to 
March 31, 2018 remained outstanding. In 
view of the uncertainty in realisability of the 
security and/or collection of the amounts, the 
outstanding amount was fully provided during 
the year ended March 31, 2018.
	
	
	
The Investigation Report indicated that the 
placement of the ICDs, including the method of 
such placement, their subsequent assignment 
and the cancellation of such assignment were 
done without following the normal treasury 
operations and treasury mandate; and without 
specific authorisation by the Board of FHsL. 
(Also refer note 22 on SEBI Order).
	
	
	
As per the Additional Procedures/Enquiries 
by independent experts, the borrowers were 
potentially linked to the erstwhile promoters 
and also potentially linked to each other. FHsL 
has filed a civil suit on August 26, 2019 for 
recovery of ` 52,019 Lakhs before Hon’ble 
Delhi High Court against the Borrowers and few 
other entities which is pending adjudication. 
Further, in the complaint filed with the 
Economic Offence Wing, New Delhi (EOW) in 
November 2020 for certain other matters as 
mentioned subsequently, reference has been 
made of certain queries being put by SFIO in 
relation to this transaction, and the Company 
having responded thereto. A First Information 
Report (FIR) was registered by EOW in July 2021 
w.r.t. the above complaint. The investigation is 
underway.
	
	
(ii)	
The Company had paid security deposits and 
advances aggregating to ` 2,173 Lakhs in the 
financial year 2013-14 to a private company 
(“Lessor”) towards lease of office space. Due 
to delays in obtaining occupancy certificate 
(OC), the lease agreement/MOUs were either 
terminated by the Company or expired during 
the financial year 2017-18. The amounts 
outstanding from the Lessor as on March 31, 
2018 aggregated to ` 2,173 Lakhs. Additionally, 
expenditure aggregating to ` 2,570 Lakhs was 
incurred towards capital work-in-progress on 
the premises proposed to be take on lease from 
the Lessor, which is also being claimed from the 
Lessor pursuant to the aforesaid termination. 
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
305
The 
Company 
has 
issued 
legal 
notice 
demanding the outstanding. Lessor responded 
to the notice of the Company for amicable 
resolution, which has not yet yielded any 
results. Further, Company has filed claim before 
Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) appointed 
by NCLT in a matter filed by one of creditors of 
Lessor. IRP is currently adjudicating the claims 
of various creditors of the Lessor including 
that of the Company. NCLT has approved the 
Resolution Plan. The Resolution Professional 
admitted the claim of the Company as other 
creditors and in accordance with the terms of 
Resolution Plan decided that the payment made 
to the Company shall stand as ` Nil.
	
	
	
In view of the facts stated above and the 
uncertainty in the ultimate recovery of the 
aforesaid balances, the Company had recorded 
provisions aggregating to ` 4,743 Lakhs in the 
Standalone Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2018.
	
	
	
SFIO has sought information in respect of 
this transaction and the same has been duly 
provided by the Company. Further, as stated 
above, a complaint has been filed with the 
EOW in November 2020 by the Company for 
certain other matters in which a reference has 
been made to such SFIO enquiries as well as 
to the Company’s responses thereto and EOW 
is investigating the matter. A First Information 
Report (FIR) was registered by EOW in July 2021 
against the above complaint. The investigation 
is underway.
	
	
(iii)	 FHsL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 
had advanced moneys to an entity towards 
acquisition of property in Mumbai in financial 
year 2013-14 which did not materialise. Of the 
total advance of ` 10,000 Lakhs, balance of 
` 2,375 Lakhs was outstanding to be received 
back. Post-dated cheques received from the 
entity were dishonored, and FHsL initiated legal 
proceedings in this regard. FHsL had accrued 
for the interest amounting to ` 174 Lakhs up 
to March 31, 2018 on the advance for the 
purpose of including the same in the legal claim 
on the entity. However, in line with applicable 
accounting norms, interest thereon for the 
period subsequent to March 31, 2018 was not 
accrued considering the uncertainties around 
ultimate realisation of the amounts.
	
	
	
In view of the facts stated above and the 
uncertainty in the ultimate recovery of the 
aforesaid balances, the Group had recorded 
provisions aggregating to ` 2,549 Lakhs 
towards the amounts due, including interest, in 
the year ended March 31, 2018.
	
	
	
One of the directors of the entity, post 
summoning in the legal proceedings initiated 
by the Company has settled disputes for himself 
and the entity by paying ` 2,300 Lakhs during 
the year ended March 31, 2020 towards full 
and final settlement.
	
	
	
Considering full and final settlement already 
done and the transaction having been legally 
concluded no further action is being taken.
	
	
(iv)	 During the year ended March 31, 2018, 
the Company through its subsidiary (i.e. 
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre 
Limited 
(“EHIRCL”)), 
purchased 
further 
71% equity interest in Fortis Healthstaff 
Limited(“Healthstaff”) 
at 
an 
aggregate 
consideration of ` 3.46 Lakhs from erstwhile 
promoter group companies. Subsequently, 
EHIRCL advanced a loan to Healthstaff which 
was used to repay the outstanding unsecured 
loan amount of ` 794.50 Lakhs to an erstwhile 
promoters group company. Certain documents 
suggest that the loan repayment by Healthstaff 
and some other payments to the erstwhile 
promoter group company may have been 
ultimately routed through various intermediary 
companies and used for repayment of the ICDs 
/vendor advance to FHsL/Company. Further, 
Healthstaff was not in a position to repay loan 
to the erstwhile promoter group company. 
EHIRCL also could not directly takeover the 
loan, as EHIRCL (holding 29%) could not have 
taken over the burden of the entire debt of 
Healthstaff. Therefore, this transaction was in 
a way to help the erstwhile promoter group 
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
306
companies (71% shareholders) to avoid making 
payment for its share, and place EHIRCL in a 
situation where it would find it hard to recover 
from its own now wholly owned subsidiary. 
Further, the said loan advanced by EHIRCL 
to Healthstaff was impaired in the books of 
account of EHIRCL due to anticipated chances 
of non-recovery during the year ended March 
31, 2019.
	
	
	
Complaint has been filed in this regard, with 
the EOW in November 2020 against erstwhile 
promoters/erstwhile promoters Group Company 
and EOW is investigating the matter. A First 
Information Report (FIR) was registered by EOW 
in July 2021 against the above complaint. The 
investigation is underway.
	
	
(v)	
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the 
Company through its subsidiary (i.e. Fortis 
Hospitals Limited (“FHsL”)), purchased further 
51% equity interest in Fortis Emergency Services 
Limited (FESL) at an aggregate consideration 
of ` 0.255 Lakhs from erstwhile promoter 
group company. Subsequently, FHsL advanced 
a loan to FESL, which was used to repay the 
outstanding unsecured loan amount of ` 215 
Lakhs to an erstwhile promoter group company. 
Certain documents suggest that the loan 
repayment by FESL and some other payments 
to the erstwhile promoter group company 
may have been ultimately routed through 
various intermediary companies and used for 
repayment of the ICDs /vendor advance to FHsL/
Company. Further, FESL was not in a position 
to repay loan to the erstwhile promoter group 
company. FHsL also could not directly takeover 
the loan, as FHsL (holding 49%) could not have 
taken over the burden of the entire debt of 
FESL. Therefore, this transaction was in a way 
to help the erstwhile promoter group company 
(51% shareholders) to avoid making payment 
for its share, and place FHsL in a situation where 
it would find it hard to recover from its own 
now wholly owned subsidiary Further, the said 
loan advanced by FHsL to FESL was impaired in 
the books of account of FHsL due to anticipated 
chances of non-recovery.
	
	
	
Complaint has been filed with the EOW in 
November 2020 against erstwhile promoters/
erstwhile promoters group company and EOW 
is investigating the matter. A First Information 
Report (FIR) was registered by EOW in July 2021 
against the above complaint. The investigation 
is underway.
	
	
(vi)	 Remuneration to ex-chairman
	
	
	
The Company having considered all necessary 
facts and taking into account external legal 
advice, had on June 27, 2018 decided to treat 
as non-est the Letter of Appointment dated 
September 27, 2016, as amended, (“LoA”) 
issued to the erstwhile Executive Chairman of 
the Company in relation to his role as ‘Lead: 
Strategic Initiatives’ in the Strategy Function. 
Since the LoA was treated as non-est, the 
Company received legal advice from its counsels 
that the amount paid under the aforesaid LoA 
(amounting to ` 1,768 Lakhs) appears to be 
an arrangement designed to circumvent the 
managerial remuneration limits under Section 
197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
relevant Central Government approvals and 
thus was wrongfully paid. Thus, as per the legal 
advice, the payments made to him under this 
LoA for the role of ‘Lead: Strategic Initiatives’ 
ought to be considered and characterised as 
payments which are in the nature of managerial 
remuneration, as regulated and governed in 
section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013. An 
amount of ` 234 Lakhs that was reimbursed in 
relation to expenses incurred was in excess of the 
amounts approved by the Central Government 
under Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly, the Company sent a letter to the 
erstwhile Executive Chairman seeking refund of 
the excess amounts paid to him over and above 
the managerial remuneration limit, as specified 
under the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
relevant government approvals in this regard. 
The erstwhile Executive Chairman sent a notice 
to the Company claiming ` 4,610 Lakhs as 
allegedly due to him under the employment 
agreement. The Company replied to the same 
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
307
through its legal counsel denying any liability 
and stated that the demand was not payable 
being illegal. Subsequently, Company filed 
a complaint against the erstwhile Executive 
Chairman before EOW. The Company has 
received back vehicles which were being used 
by him. However, IT assets and excess amounts 
paid are yet to be received.
	
	
	
In view of the above, the amounts paid to him 
under the aforesaid LoA and certain additional 
amounts reimbursed in relation to expenses 
incurred (in excess of the amounts approved 
by the Central Government under section 197 
of the Companies Act 2013 for remuneration 
& other reimbursements), aggregating to 
` 2,002.39 Lakhs was recognised as recoverable 
in the Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Company for the year ended March 31, 
2018. However, considering the uncertainty 
involved on recoverability of the said amounts, 
a provision of ` 2,002.39 Lakhs was made in 
the Standalone Financial Statements for the 
year ended March 31, 2018. The Company has 
filed a complaint against the erstwhile Executive 
Chairman before EOW on account of both of 
the above payments and EOW is investigating 
the matter.
	
	
	
An addendum to the complaint already filed 
with the EOW has been filed in November 2020 
with the EOW including certain other findings 
during Additional Procedures/Enquiries by 
independent experts as below:
	
	
	
a.	
Payments were made to the erstwhile 
Executive Chairman from a foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company as one-
time bonus in February 2016 of equivalent 
` 846 Lakhs and managerial remuneration 
was paid for the period January 2016 
to May 2016, amounting to equivalent 
` 349 Lakhs. Further, remuneration paid 
in excess of Central Govt. approval by the 
Company for FY 2014-15 and FY 2015-16 
amounting to ` 528 Lakhs was refunded 
by erstwhile executive chairman in March 
2016 to the Company. It is possible that 
the amounts recovered towards excess 
remuneration paid from the Company 
to erstwhile executive chairman of ` 528 
Lakhs was compensated through the 
foreign wholly owned subsidiary.
	
	
	
b.	
Payments were made to an erstwhile 
promoter entity from another foreign 
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company 
under an investment advisory agreement 
amounting to equivalent ` 344 Lakhs for 
the period June 2016 to September 2016. 
However, there was nothing on record to 
suggest that any services were rendered 
by the erstwhile promoter entity under 
this agreement.
	
	
(vii)	 During the financial year 2014-15, the Company 
through its subsidiary (i.e. Fortis Hospitals 
Limited (“FHsL”)), acquired 100% stake in 
Birdie & Birdie Realtors Pvt; Ltd. (“Birdie”) 
from certain persons related to the erstwhile 
promoters, wherein ` 12,275 Lakhs were paid 
towards ICDs at a rate of interest of 14% per 
annum and ` 7,725 Lakhs were paid for the 
shares acquired. The total enterprise value of 
Birdie was projected at ` 20,000 Lakhs based 
on the valuation report of land and building 
by an independent valuer. However, the equity 
valuation of ` 7,725 Lakhs was arrived based on 
a land and building valuation report by another 
valuer of ` 23,700 Lakhs and on assumption that 
the Land has to be sold in 6-8 months, which 
in reality did not happen. Also, the “subject 
property photographs” used in the mentioned 
two valuation reports were identical. Also, the 
ICD’s of ` 12,275 Lakhs were utilised to repay/
replace the then existing debts including that of 
erstwhile promoters and person/entities related/
known to the erstwhile promoters. It is possible 
that the erstwhile promoters acted in order to 
make excess money to repay the loans availed 
by Birdie from them, persons related to them 
and entities related/known to them.
	
	
	
There have been certain queries raised on this 
transaction by the SFIO. The Company has 
responded to the said queries. Further, in the 
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
308
above referred Complaint filed with the EOW 
in November 2020 against erstwhile promoters, 
SFIO enquiries and the Company’s responses 
have been mentioned and EOW is investigating 
the matter. A First Information Report (FIR) was 
registered by EOW in July 2021 against the 
above complaint. Investigation is underway. 
Enforcement Directorate is also investigating 
into the allegations made in the said FIR.
	
	
(viii)	 The Company through its overseas subsidiaries 
[i.e. Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte. Ltd, Singapore 
and 
Fortis 
Global 
Healthcare 
(Mauritius) 
Limited] made investments in Global Dynamic 
Opportunity Fund, an overseas fund. It was 
observed in the earlier investigation that there 
were significant fluctuations in the NAV of 
the investments during a short span of time. 
Further, in the internal correspondence within 
the Company, investments in the overseas 
funds have been referred to as related party 
transactions. During year ended March 31, 
2018, investments held in the Global Dynamic 
Opportunity Fund were sold at a discount of 
10%.
	
	
	
There is no further finding in additional 
procedures/enquiries by independent experts 
on this matter. Further, the investigation by the 
external legal firm done also mentioned that it 
appeared that GDOF was not related to Fortis 
based on the procedures performed by them. 
Accordingly, no further action is being taken.
	
	
(ix)	 In respect of certain other matters found 
during the Additional Procedures/Enquiries 
by independent experts no actions were 
recommended since there were no sufficient 
evidences on those matters. However, there is 
no impact of those matters on the financials.
	
D.	
Based on investigation carried out by the external 
legal firm and the additional procedures/enquiries 
by independent experts, all identified/required 
adjustments/provisions/disclosures have been made in 
the standalone financial statements of the Company. 
The Company has also submitted findings of the 
Investigation Report of the external legal firm and 
the additional procedures/ enquiries by independent 
experts to the relevant regulatory authorities. 
Further, on relevant aspects, the Company has also 
filed a complaint with the EOW against the erstwhile 
promoters/ erstwhile promoter group companies 
and EOW is investigating the matter. Recovery /
claim proceedings have also been initiated in the 
matters where action was recommended by the 
legal counsels. A First Information Report (FIR) was 
registered by EOW in July 2021 against the above 
complaint.
	
	
Therefore, 
with 
this 
conclusion, 
the 
initial 
investigation, which was subject to the limitations 
on the information available to the external legal 
firm and their qualifications and disclaimers has 
been addressed through the additional procedures/
enquiries by independent experts. In addition, the 
current Board had initiated specific improvement 
projects to strengthen the process and control 
environment. The projects included revision of 
authority levels, both operational and financial and 
oversight of the Board, review of Financial Reporting 
processes, assessment of secretarial documentation 
w.r.t compliance with regulatory requirements and 
systems design & control enhancement for which 
the assessment work was done and corrective action 
plans were implemented.
	
	
Accordingly, the Board has taken necessary actions 
in consultation with the legal counsels in this regard. 
The investigations in so far as these issues involving 
the erstwhile promoters/ erstwhile promoter group 
companies is concerned are still pending with the 
regulatory authorities. The management of the 
Company also believes that if any action is initiated 
by regulatory authorities against the Company, the 
same should not have a significant material impact 
on the Company as all items which may have 
financial impact have already been provided for in 
earlier years. The Company would fully co-operate 
with the regulatory authorities in this regard.
21. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
309
22. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES:
	
a.	
In the above backdrop, during financial year 2017-
18 the Company received a communication from 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), 
confirming that an investigation has been instituted 
by SEBI in the matter of the Company. In the said 
letter, SEBI required the Company under section 
11C (3) of the SEBI Act, 1992 to furnish certain 
information and documents relating to the short-
term investments of ` 47,300 Lakhs reported in 
the media. SEBI had appointed forensic auditors to 
conduct a forensic audit, of collating information 
from the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. 
The Company/its subsidiaries furnished requisite 
information and documents requested by SEBI.
	
	
In furtherance of the above, subsequently on October 
17, 2018 SEBI passed an ex-parte Interim Order 
(“Interim Order”) whereby it observed that certain 
transactions were structured by some identified 
entities over a certain duration, and undertaken 
through the Company, which were prima facie 
fictitious and fraudulent in nature and which 
resulted in inter alia diversion of funds from the 
Company for the ultimate benefit of the erstwhile 
promoters (and certain entities controlled by them) 
and misrepresentation in financial statements of the 
Company. Further, it inter alia directed the Company 
to take all necessary steps to recover ` 40,300 Lakhs 
along with due interest from erstwhile promoters 
and various other entities, as mentioned in the 
Interim Order. More importantly, the said entities 
had also been directed to jointly and severally 
repay ` 40,300 Lakhs along with due interest to 
Company within three months of the Interim Order. 
Incidentally, the Interim Order also included FHsL as 
one of the entities directed to repay the due sums. 
Pursuant to this, FHsL’s beneficial owner account had 
been suspended for debits by the National Securities 
Depository Limited and Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited. Further, SEBI had also directed the said 
entities that pending completion of investigation and 
till further order, they shall not dispose of or alienate 
any of their assets or divert any funds, except for 
the purposes for meeting expenses of day-to-day 
business operations, without the prior permission of 
SEBI. Erstwhile-promoters were also directed not to 
associate themselves with the affairs of the Company 
in any manner whatsoever, till further directions.
	
	
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary 
i.e. Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL) had then filed 
applications for modification of the Interim Order, 
for deletion of name of FHsL from the list of entities 
against whom the directions were issued. Pursuant 
to this SEBI, vide order dated December 21, 2018, 
modified its previous Interim Order dated October 
17, 2018 deleting FHsL from the list of entities 
against whom the Interim Order was directed. 
Pursuant to this, the suspension order by National 
Securities Depository Limited for debits in beneficial 
owner account of FHsL was accordingly removed. 
Vide Order dated March 19, 2019, (“Confirmatory 
Order”) SEBI confirmed the directions issued vide ad 
interim ex-parte order dated October 17, 2018 read 
with order dated December 21, 2018, till further 
orders. SEBI also directed the Company and FHsL to 
take all necessary steps to recover ` 40,300 Lakhs 
along with due interest from erstwhile-promoters 
and various other entities, as mentioned in the 
Interim Order.
	
	
Company and FHsL had filed necessary applications 
in this regard including an application with the 
Recovery Officer, SEBI, under Section 28A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, for 
the recovery of the amounts owed by the erstwhile-
promoters and various other entities to the Company 
and FHsL. SEBI vide its letter dated June 14, 2019 
stated that provisions of Section 28A of SEBI Act, 
1992 cannot be invoked at this stage hence, 
Company and FHsL may take necessary steps to 
comply with SEBI’s direction. Accordingly, FHsL has 
filed a civil suit for recovery of ` 52,019 Lakhs before 
Hon’ble Delhi High Court against the parties, named 
in the orders passed by SEBI.
	
	
The Investigation Report of the external legal firm was 
submitted by the Company to the SEBI and SFIO on 
June 12, 2018. Further, the Company has submitted 
a copy of the complaint filed with the EOW and 
a copy of the report of the additional procedures/ 
enquiries done by the independent expert to SEBI 
and SFIO on November 10, 2020.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
310
	
	
By an order dated November 12, 2020, SEBI revoked 
its Interim orders read with Confirmatory Order qua 
Best Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Fern Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. 
and Modland Wears Pvt. Ltd. and directed that the 
ongoing proceedings against them be substituted 
with adjudication proceedings. The order expressly 
clarified that the Company and FHsL were at 
liberty to pursue remedies under law, as deemed 
appropriate by them, against the abovementioned 
entities in respect of their role in the diversion of 
funds. A Show-Cause Notice (SCN-1) was issued by 
SEBI to various entities including the Company and 
FHsL on November 20, 2020. In the SCN-1, it was 
inter-alia alleged that the consolidated financials of 
the Company at the relevant period were untrue and 
misleading for the shareholders of the Company and 
the Company had circumvented certain provisions of 
the SEBI Act, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956, and certain SEBI regulations. In response, a joint 
representation/reply was filed by the Company and 
FHsL on December 28, 2020 praying for quashing of 
the SCN-1 by inter alia reiterating that the Company 
and FHsL, were in fact victims of the schemes of 
the erstwhile Promoters (Malvinder Mohan Singh 
and Shivinder Mohan Singh) and justice, equity 
and fairness demands that the victim ought not be 
punished for the offences of the wrongdoers. All 
acts impugned in the SCN-1 relate to the period 
when the erstwhile Promoters controlled the affairs 
of Company and FHsL and the erstwhile Promoters 
are no longer involved in the affairs of the Company 
and FHsL. The erstwhile Promoters were responsible 
for financial misrepresentation and not the Company 
and FHsL. Post resignation of the erstwhile Promoters 
in February 2018, the Board of Directors of the 
Company, solely comprising independent Directors 
looked after its welfare. The new promoter of the 
Company (i.e. NTK Venture Pte. Ltd.) assumed control 
of the Company pursuant to a preferential allotment 
which was approved by both the Competition 
Commission of India and SEBI which approved the 
open offer triggered pursuant to such preferential 
allotment. Any adverse orders against the Company 
and FHsL would harm their existing shareholders, 
employees and creditors. The Company and FHsL 
have taken substantial legal actions against the 
erstwhile Promoters and significant steps to recover 
the diverted amounts. SEBI passed an order dated 
April 19, 2022 w.r.t SCN -1 directing the Company 
& FHsL to pursue the measures taken to recover 
the amount of ` 39,712 Lakhs (approx.) along 
with the interest from erstwhile Promoters; & Audit 
Committee to regularly monitor the progress of such 
measures and report the same to Board of Directors 
at regular intervals. SEBI has imposed a penalty of 
` 100 Lakhs and ` 50 Lakhs on Company and FHsL 
respectively. The Company and FHsL filed an appeal 
against the order dated April 19, 2022 before Hon’ble 
Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai. On August 
25, 2022, SEBI filed its affidavit in reply in the matter. 
Thereafter, the Company and FHsL filed a rejoinder 
to SEBI’s reply. Appeal is pending adjudication. The 
Company & FHsL have deposited ` 50 Lakhs and 
` 25 Lakhs respectively under protest with Hon’ble 
Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai.
	
	
On April 09, 2021, SEBI issued another Show 
cause notice (SCN-2) to various noticees including 
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited 
(“EHIRCL”). In the said SCN-2, with respect to EHIRCL, 
it was alleged that ` 56,700 Lakhs was lent by the 
Company to EHIRCL in 2011, which was subsequently 
transferred by EHIRCL to Lowe Infra and Wellness 
Private Limited (“Lowe”) in multiple transactions 
for the purchase of a land parcel. This land parcel, 
which was allegedly indirectly to be acquired by the 
Company through its subsidiary EHIRCL and another 
entity Lowe, was then transferred to RHC Holdings 
Private Limited (“RHC Holdings”). It was stated in the 
said SCN-2 that a structured rotation of funds was 
carried out to portray that the loan extended by the 
Company for the purchase of land had been paid 
back with interest in the year 2011. It is alleged that 
the Company was actually paid back by RHC Holding 
over a period of four years ending on July 31, 2015. 
In this respect, the Company and FHsL funds were 
allegedly routed through various layers in order to 
camouflage the transactions, and to circumvent legal 
provisions with respect to related party transactions.
	
	
In the SCN-2, EHIRCL had been clubbed along with 
the other noticees, and had been painted with the 
same brush as the other noticees in alleging that 
22. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
311
certain noticees, including EHIRCL, were part of a 
fraudulent and deceptive device wherein they acted 
in fraudulent manner which led to the misuse and/
or diversion of funds from a listed company i.e. FHL, 
amounting to approximately ` 39,712 Lakhs for the 
ultimate benefit of RHC Holdings and the erstwhile 
promoters. Thereby, it is alleged, that EHIRCL has 
aided and abetted the routing of funds from the 
Company, ultimately to RHC Holdings, for the 
benefit of the promoter entities.
	
	
SEBI w.r.t SCN-2 passed an order dated May 18, 
2022 imposing penalty against several erstwhile 
promoters entities and certain individuals. Based 
on the aforesaid allegations and actions taken by 
the Company against the erstwhile promoters and 
related entities, it had also imposed a penalty of Rs 
100 Lakhs on EHIRCL. EHIRCL filed an appeal against 
the order dated May 18, 2022 before Hon’ble 
Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai. SEBI filed its 
response to which EHIRCL filed a rejoinder. Appeal 
is pending adjudication. EHIRCL has deposited ` 50 
Lakhs under protest with Hon’ble Securities Appellate 
Tribunal, Mumbai.
	
	
The Board of Directors continue to be fully committed 
to fully co-operating with the relevant regulatory 
authorities to enable them to make a determination 
on these matters and to undertake remedial action, 
as may be required, and to ensure compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. In the aforesaid 
context, proper and sufficient care has also been 
taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities on a going forward basis.
	
b.	
During year ended March 31, 2018, the Registrar 
of Companies (ROC) under section 206(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, inter alia, had also sought 
information in relation to the Company. All requisite 
information in this regard was duly shared by the 
Company with the ROC.
	
c.	
The Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) of the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, under section 217(1)(a) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, inter alia, initiated an 
investigation and is seeking information in relation 
to the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates. The Company is submitting requisite 
information in this regard with SFIO, as requested from 
time to time. The outcome of the SFIO investigation 
cannot be ascertained as of now keeping in view the 
present stage of the investigation.
	
	
The Company is fully co-operating with the regulators 
in relation to the ongoing investigations to enable 
them to make their determination on these matters.
	
	
Based on management’s analysis, a provision has 
been made and recognised in the year ended March 
31, 2021 for any contingency that may arise from 
the aforesaid issues. The Company being a parent 
entity for EHIRCL, FHsL has undertaken that it will 
reimburse such penalty/fine which shall finally 
payable by EHIRCL and/or FHsL, if required after 
exhausting available legal remedies. This is not to 
be regarded as admission in any manner whatsoever 
by the Company of any of the violations, as alleged 
by any of the authorities or otherwise, against it. 
Further, as per the management and in consultation 
with external legal counsel it is believed that the 
likelihood of additional impact, if any, is low and is 
not expected to be material.
23. In connection with the brand transition in respect of 
Agilus, non-exclusive Brand License Agreement of the 
diagnostics business had expired on May 09, 2021. In 
May 2023, an application on behalf of a judgment debtor 
was filed in pending proceedings before Hon’ble High 
Court of Delhi, for restraining Agilus & the Company from 
abruptly dumping/discontinuing the brand ‘SRL’ and allied 
trademarks, appointment of an entity for valuation and 
sale of the ‘SRL’ and allied trademarks (“Former Brand”) 
and directing the Agilus to deposit an appropriate amount 
with the Hon’ble High Court till the sale of the Former 
Brand. On May 26, 2023, submissions on behalf of Agilus 
were recorded that the process of brand transition had
	
already been initiated by the diagnostic business since year 
2020 and it had been moving towards brand Agilus. Vide 
Order dated May 26, 2023 (26 May Order) High Court 
directed Agilus, the Company and brand owner to not 
to act in any manner to diminish the value of the brand 
SRL. Certificate of incorporation was issued by Office of 
the Registrar of Companies, Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
22. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES: (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
312
certifying the change of name from “SRL Limited” to 
“Agilus Diagnostics Limited” w.e.f. May 31, 2023. On 
June 02, 2023, an affidavit in compliance of order dated 
May 26, 2023 was filed on behalf of Agilus.
	
On June 02, 2023, Hon’ble High Court of Delhi appointed 
M/s Konverj - Zeus as valuer for valuation of brand ‘SRL’. 
In the last week of June 2023, Decree Holder filed a 
Contempt Petition against Agilus, the Company and 
directors/KMPs of Agilus alleging that they have knowingly 
and willfully disobeyed the order dated May 26, 2023 
passed by Hon’ble High Court of Delhi. No notice on this 
petition has been issued by Hon’ble Court. Affidavits have 
been filed by Agilus to support and substantiate that it is 
in compliance of the 26 May Order.
	
In September 2023, an ex-director of Headway Brands 
Private Limited (company which was the owner and 
licensor of the Former Brand) has filed an application 
dated September 14, 2023 before the Delhi High Court 
inter alia seeking payment of ` 36,200 Lakhs (approx.) as 
license fee and interest for use of the Former Brand, and 
that an inquiry be conducted into the impact of brand 
transition by Agilus on valuation of the Former Brand. 
The High Court by its order dated September 25, 2023, 
while issuing notice on the said application recorded the 
preliminary objections of Agilus that the application (i) is 
not maintainable and (ii) Agilus and Agilus Pathlabs are 
not necessary parties to the said application. Notice of 
the said application has been issued by the Court to all 
parties named therein for submission of their respective 
responses/ objections. Objections have been filed by 
Agilus.
	
Court appointed valuer M/s Konverj – Zeus has filed 
its report which has been objected to by Agilus and an 
affidavit, highlighting the deficiencies and illegality therein 
has been filed by Agilus on October 17, 2023 supported 
by reports of subject matter experts i.e. Ernst & Young 
and Osborne Partners who in their respective reports have 
pointed out that in preparation of report, M/s Konverj 
– Zeus has applied entirely incorrect and inappropriate 
valuation methodologies and has made reference to 
incorrect dates in arriving at conclusions set out in its 
report. Post the order of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court 
for public auction of SRL Brand, Court Commissioner has 
informed the Court that no prospective bidder turned-up 
and the public auction of the SRL Brand could therefore 
not be completed. In August 2024, Decree Holder again 
filed an application requesting for auction of ‘SRL’ brand, 
which has been allowed by Court on April 21, 2025 and 
a court commissioner (Retd. District Judge) has been 
appointed for completion of auction within 6 weeks.
	
Further, as per the management and in consultation with 
external legal counsel it is believed that Agilus has a strong 
case on merits and the likelihood of any impact on the 
financial statements is not expected to be material. The 
matter is pending adjudication.
24. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the 
Company and its subsidiaries during earlier years were 
carried out through Fortis Charitable Foundation (FCF) 
(erstwhile promoter entity) with whom dealings have 
been stopped.
Amounts were paid by the Company and its subsidiaries 
to FCF for CSR activities. FCF was required to utilise the 
money so received strictly in various CSR programs.
However, there are unutilised amounts lying with FCF 
which have not been spent and neither refunded by 
FCF despite several reminders and notices. Accordingly, 
civil recovery action has been initiated for recovery of 
unutilised amount of ` 182 Lakhs.
23. (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
313
25. RATIO ANALYSIS AND ITS ELEMENTS
S. 
No.
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
% change Remarks
1
Current Ratio 
(in times)
Total current assets
Total current 
liabilities
0.39
0.84
(53.55%) Due to increase in 
interest accrued on 
account of issuance 
of  Non-Convertible 
Debentures (NCDs) 
during the year
2
Debt-Equity 
Ratio (in times)
Debt consists of 
borrowings and lease 
liabilities
Total equity
0.22
0.07
208.20% Due to issuance of Non-
Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs) during the year
3
Debt Service 
Coverage 
Ratio (in times)
Earning for Debt Service 
= Net Profit after taxes 
excluding exceptional 
(loss)/gain + Non-cash 
operating expenses + 
Finance costs + Other 
non-cash adjustments
Debt service 
= Interest and 
lease payments 
+ Principal 
repayments
2.05
0.71
188.90% Due to increase in 
profitability during the 
year
4
Return on 
Equity Ratio 
(in %)
Profit excluding 
exceptional (loss)/gain for 
the year less Preference 
dividend  (if any)
Average total 
equity
1.97%
1.17%
67.19% Due to increase in 
profitability during the 
year
5
Inventory 
turnover Ratio 
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Inventory
25.64
24.12
6.32% -
6
Trade 
Receivables 
Turnover Ratio 
(in times)
Revenue from operations 
(excluding liabilities no 
longer required written 
back)
Average trade 
receivable
9.24
10.31
(10.35%) -
7
Trade Payables 
Turnover Ratio 
(in times)
Net credit purchases = 
Gross credit purchases - 
purchase return
Average trade 
payables
0.65
0.66
(2.08%) -
8
Net Capital 
Turnover Ratio 
(in times)
Revenue from operations 
(excluding liabilities no 
longer required written 
back)
Working capital 
(i.e. Total current 
assets less Total 
current liabilities)
(2.39)
(9.94)
(75.97%) Due to increase in 
current financial liability 
during the year
9
Net Profit 
Ratio (in %)
Net Profit  excluding 
exceptional (loss)/gain
Revenue from 
operations 
(excluding 
liabilities no 
longer required 
written back)
12.39%
8.98%
38.02% Due to increase in 
current financial liability 
during the year
10
Return on 
Capital 
Employed 
(in %)
Profit before tax 
excluding exceptional 
(loss)/gain  and finance 
costs
Capital employed 
= Tangible Net 
worth + Lease 
liabilities + 
Deferred tax 
liabilities
3.08%
2.42%
27.36% Due to increase in 
profitability during the 
year
11
Return on 
investment 
(%)
Income generated from 
Invested funds
Average Invested 
funds
16.85%
13.79%
22.20%
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
314
26. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
	
(i)	
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory 
period.
	
(ii)	
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
	
(iii)	 The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
	
(iv)	 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries,
	
(v)	
The Company does not have any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey 
or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
	
(vi)	 The Company is not declared willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
	
	
The Company has following transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or 
section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956:
Name of the Company
Reason for 
continuous 
transactions
Nature of 
transactions
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025 
[Payable/ 
(advance)]
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2024
[Payable/ 
(advance)]
Transactions 
in FY 2024-25
Transactions 
in FY 2023-24
El Shaddai Integrated 
Solutions India Private 
Limited
NA
Purchase of 
material/services
-
2.15
-
-
Enmax Global Technologies 
Pvt Ltd
NA
Purchase of 
material/services
-
1.25
-
-
J.M. Weightronix Private 
Limited
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
(0.04)
(0.04)
0.39
0.39
Ganga Tour and Travels Pvt 
Ltd
NA
Purchase of 
material/services
-
(0.02)
-
11.14
Roche Diagnostics India 
Private Limited
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
(0.17)
-
(0.17)
-
Wizzcare Home Health 
Solutions Private Limited
NA
Services provided
-
(0.18)
-
-
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
315
	
(vii)	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India 
and the Group (as per the provisions of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have 
any CIC.
	
(viii)	 The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of Section 2 of the Act.
	
(ix)	 The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous 
financial year.
27. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has received dividend of ` 6,258.34 Lakhs (Previous year Nil) from its 
subsidiary Fortis Hospotel Limited at the rate of ` 1.5 per equity share (Previous year Nil) and  ` 764.50 Lakhs (Previous year 
1,348.06 Lakhs) from its subsidiary Agilus Diagnostics Limited(formerly known as SRL Limited) at the rate of ` 1.69 per equity 
share (Previous year ` 2.97 per equity share).
28. On March 31, 2023, the Board of directors of the Company gave their consent to sell/transfer/dispose-off Arcot Road Hospital, 
Chennai as a going concern on “as is where is” basis on such terms and conditions as per the draft business transfer agreement 
and with closure of points under discussion. During the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, based on the final business 
transfer agreement with Sri Kauvery Medical Care (India) Limited, the Company consummated transaction on July 11, 2023 for 
a sale consideration of ` 15,200 Lakhs (excluding other charges) and recorded an exceptional gain of ` 349.29 Lakhs.
	
Following assets and liabilities were transferred as part of the transaction:
Particulars
As at
July 11, 2023
Amount as on 
disposal date
Assets:
Non-current assets:
Propert, plant and equipment
16,431.83
Capital work in progress
73.28
Right-of-use assets
6,988.68
Other intangible assets
-
Other financial assets
200.32
Deferred tax assets (net)
434.65
Other non-current assets
0.95
Total (A)
24,129.71
Current assets:
Inventory
232.83
Trade receivables
661.39
Cash and cash equivalents
1.00
Other financial assets  
1.39
Other current assets
539.28
Total (B)
1,435.89
Total assets (C = A + B)
25,565.60
Liabilities:
Non-current liabilities:
26. (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
316
Particulars
As at
July 11, 2023
Amount as on 
disposal date
Lease liabilities
9,075.60
Provisions
82.79
Total (D)
9158.39
Current liabilities
Trade payables
1,463.12
Lease liabilities
112.27
Other financial liabilities
136.77
Provisions
6.52
Other current liabilities
62.06
Total (E)
1,780.74
Total liabilities (F = D + E)
10,939.13
Net assets transferred (G = C - F) 
14,626.47
Consideration received (H)
15,200.00
Gross gain on slump sale transaction (I = H -G)
573.53
Less: Expenses in nature of 'Legal and professional fee' in relation to transaction (J) 
(224.24)
Net gain on transaction (K = I - J)
349.29
29. The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting on 
May 20, 2025 recommended a dividend of Rupee 1.00 
per equity share (at the rate of 10% on face value of 
` 10 per share) for the year ended March 31, 2025 which 
will be paid subject to the approval of the shareholders in 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company, to 
those shareholders whose names appear on the register 
of members as on the date of Book Closure in proportion 
to the paid up value of the equity shares and if approved, 
would result in a net cash outflow of approximately 
` 7,549.58 Lakhs.
30. During the earlier year, a Composite Scheme of 
Amalgamation u/s 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013 
which provides for merger of Fortis Emergency Services 
Limited, Birdie & Birdie Realtors Private Limited, Fortis 
Health Management (East) Limited and Fortis Cancer Care 
Limited with Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL) (“Scheme”) 
(one of the wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company), 
was approved by the Board of Directors and Shareholders
	
of the Holding Company, subject to requisite approval(s). 
The respective applications are subject to the approval 
of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Delhi and 
Chandigarh and proceedings in connection thereto are 
ongoing.
31. The Company has established a comprehensive system of 
maintenance of information and documents as required 
by transfer pricing legislation under section 92D for its 
international transactions as well as specified domestic 
transactions if applicable. Based on the transfer pricing 
regulations/ policy, the transfer pricing study for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 is to be conducted on or before 
due date of the filing of return and the Company will 
further update above information and records based 
on the same and expects these to be in existence latest 
by that date. Management believes that all the above 
transactions are at arm’s length price and the aforesaid 
legislations will not have impact on the standalone 
financial statement, particularly on the amount of tax 
expense and provision for taxation.
28. (Contd.)
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
317
32. The healthcare business operates inter alia within 
two categories of entities within the Fortis Group i.e. 
operations entities and establishment entities. In order 
to consolidate the operations entities and establishment 
entities such that both operations and establishment of a 
hospital are housed in same entity, the Board of Directors 
of the Company consented to the demerger of certain 
healthcare operations from the operations entities into 
the establishment entities, which was also subsequently 
approved by the shareholders of the Company.
During the previous year, the Board of Directors of the 
respective Companies have also approved this intra 
group restructuring by way of a Composite Scheme of 
Arrangement.  The scheme is subject to the approval 
of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Delhi and 
Chandigarh. Scheme has been allowed by the NCLT 
(Delhi) on May 09, 2025 and is now pending adjudication 
before NCLT (Chandigarh). 
33. The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting 
held on September 25, 2023 approved the acquisition 
of 99.9% shareholding of Artistery Properties Private 
Limited (Artistery) at an enterprise value of ` 3,200 
Lakhs, and payment of charges to Kolkata Metropolitan 
Development Authority (“KMDA”) for change of land 
use and other levies. Artistery is in possession of a land 
parcel situated adjacent to Fortis Hospital, Anandpur, 
Kolkata under license from KMDA.
During 
the 
previous 
year, 
the 
transaction 
was 
consummated on November 8, 2023 and the same has 
been accounted as asset acquisition as per Ind AS 103.
	
The following table summarises the assets acquired:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Property, Plant and Equipment
6.68
Right of use
4,802.52
Other financial assets
14.14
Other assets
14.00
Other liabilities
(60.17)
Net assets acquired
4,769.17
34. During the previous year 2023-24, Trustee Manager of 
RHT Health Trust (“RHT”), an associate of the Company, 
filed an application before Hon’ble High Court of 
Singapore for winding-up of RHT. The Hon’ble Court 
appointed liquidators for winding up of RHT. Further, 
RHT was delisted from the Official List of the SGX-ST 
(Singapore) w.e.f. January 31 2024.
Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte Ltd, a step-down subsidiary 
of the Company, has on February 21, 2025, acquired 
21,771,000 (2.68%) Units of RHT from Trustee Manager 
of RHT.
35. During the financial year ended on March 31, 2024 
the shareholders of the Company approved “to sell, 
transfer, and dispose of the entire business operations” 
of Fortis Mohali Hospital situated at Mohali, Punjab 
(“Fortis Mohali Hospital”) as housed in the Company’s 
subsidiary Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospitals 
Limited (EHSSHL), together with all the related assets 
and liabilities (including for clarity, the land on which the 
Fortis Mohali Hospital is situated along with the hospital 
building constructed thereupon) as a going concern on 
a slump sale basis, to the Company, for a consideration 
of ` 29,710 Lakhs. The consummation of the transaction 
was subject to necessary regulatory approvals.  Further, 
the shareholders of the Company also approved to sell, 
transfer and dispose of all that piece and parcel of vacant 
land adjacent to Fortis Mohali Hospital as housed in the 
Company’s subsidiary International Hospitals Limited 
(IHL) to the Company, for a consideration of ` 11,572 
Lakhs. During the current year, post necessary regulatory 
approvals the transaction for disposal of the said vacant 
land from IHL to the Company was consummated. 
Further, EHSSHL and the Company entered into a 
Business Transfer Agreement (“BTA”) in relation to the 
aforesaid proposed transaction for a consideration of 
₹ 29,710.00 Lakhs and the Company paid an amount of 
` 28,210 Lakhs as advance for purchased consideration 
to EHSSHL subject to the terms and conditions of the BTA.
Subsequent to the year, the transaction has been 
consummated on April 14, 2025 and subject to working 
capital adjustments as required under the BTA. Hospital 
and Medical Service Agreement (HMSA) between the 
Company and EHSSHL stands terminated. The transaction 
is an asset acquisition under provision of Ind AS 103.
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
318
36. Certain non-controlling shareholders of Agilus Diagnostics Limited had the right to exercise a Put Option on the Company 
on the occurrence of certain events as described in the amendment agreement to the shareholders agreement. Agilus had 
appointed a valuer for valuation of the put option in consultation with said non-controlling shareholders of Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited. During the Current year these non-controlling shareholders have exercised their put option right and subsequently, 
the Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on August 30, 2024 approved acquisition of the stake held by 
these non- controlling shareholders for an estimated amount aggregating to `. 177,773.83 Lakhs. The Company also received 
approval from the Competition Commission of India for this acquisition and has also acquired  24,718,275 equity shares in 
Agilus Diagnostics Limited from non-controlling shareholders. 
The funding of the acquisition was done through issuance of redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures aggregating up to 
` 155,000 Lakhs (NCDs) and remaining amount through internal accruals.
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
Notes Forming Part of the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
319
To the Members of Fortis Healthcare Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
OPINION
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Fortis 
Healthcare Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding 
Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates 
and its joint ventures, which comprise the consolidated balance 
sheet as at 31 March 2025, and the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated 
statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes 
to the consolidated financial statements, including material 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial 
statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state 
of affairs of the Group, its associates and joint ventures as at 31 
March 2025, of its consolidated profit and other comprehensive 
loss, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash 
flows for the year then ended.
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group, its associates and joint ventures in accordance 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the consolidated financial statements in terms of the Code of 
Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained 
by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
EMPHASIS OF MATTERS
i.	
We draw attention to note 27 and 28 of the consolidated 
financial statements which deal with various matters including 
the ongoing investigation by Serious Fraud Investigation Office 
(“SFIO”) on Fortis Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries 
regarding alleged improper transactions and non-compliances 
with laws and regulations including Companies Act, 2013 
(including matters relating to remuneration paid to managerial 
personnel). These transactions and non-compliances relate to or 
originated prior to take over of control by reconstituted board 
of directors in the year ended 31 March 2018. As mentioned in 
the note, the Group has been submitting information required 
by SFIO and is also cooperating in the regulatory investigations.
As explained in the said note, the Group had recorded 
significant adjustments/ provisions in its books of account 
during the year ended 31 March 2018. The Holding Company 
has launched legal proceedings and has also filed a complaint 
with the Economic Offences Wing (‘EOW’) against erstwhile 
promoters and their related entities based on the findings of 
the investigation conducted by the Group. Further, based on 
management’s detailed analysis and consultation with external 
legal counsel, a further provision has been made and recognised 
in the year ended 31 March 2021 for any contingency that 
may arise from the aforesaid issues. As per the management, 
any further financial impact, to the extent it can be reliably 
estimated as at present, is not expected to be material.
ii.	
We draw attention to the note 30(A) of the consolidated 
financial statements relating to the order dated 22 September 
2022 of the Hon’ble Supreme Court whereby it has directed the 
Hon’ble High Court of Delhi inter alia that it may also consider 
issuing appropriate process and appointing forensic auditor(s) 
to analyse the transactions entered into between the Holding 
Company and RHT Health Trust and other related transactions. 
The above mentioned Note also states that the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court has observed that prima facie, it appears to be 
acquisition of proprietary interest of RHT Health Trust by the 
Holding Company are to subserve the business structure of the 
Holding Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of above matters.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
320
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Goodwill
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group is required to annually 
test the amount of Goodwill 
for 
impairment. 
There 
are 
inherent uncertainties involved 
in forecasting and discounting 
future cash flows, which are 
the basis of the assessment of 
recoverability. Accordingly, this is 
one of the key judgmental areas 
in our audit.
In this area our audit procedures included testing of the Groups’ budgeting procedures upon which 
the forecasts are based; and the principles and integrity of the Group’s discounted cashflow model. 
We used our valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies 
used by the Group. In particular this included those relating to the forecast revenue growth, 
profit margins and discount rates. We compared the Group’s assumptions to externally derived 
data as well as our own assessment in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, 
cost inflation and discount rates. We also performed sensitivity analysis of the key assumptions. 
We also assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in note 6(ii) of the consolidated financial 
statements and sensitivities of key assumptions. Also refer note 2(i) of the consolidated financial 
statements for the related accounting policy.
Legal matters
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group is involved in a several legal proceedings. 
In some of these cases, the Group has counter 
claims against the other party. Management 
judgement is involved in assessing the accounting 
for claims, and in particular considering the 
probability of a claim being successful. The risk 
related to the claims is mainly associated with the 
adequacy of disclosure, and the completeness 
of the provisions in the consolidated financial 
statements. Accordingly, we have designated this 
as key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included, on all significant legal cases, assessment of 
correspondence with the Group’s legal counsel (internal and/or external) 
accompanied by discussions and formal confirmations from that legal counsel.
We read the minutes of the board meetings, enquired with the management 
and inspected the Group’s legal expenses.
We also assessed whether the Group’s provisions and disclosures in note 6(xix), 
13 and 14 of the consolidated financial statements detailing significant legal 
proceedings adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the Group. Also refer 
note 2(m) of the consolidated financial statements for the related accounting 
policy.
Recoverability of Deferred tax assets
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group has significant deferred tax 
assets in respect to carry forward tax 
losses. There is an inherent uncertainty 
involved in forecasting future taxable 
profits, which determines the extent to 
which deferred tax assets are or are not 
recognised.
In this area our audit procedures included using our work on Group’s forecasts described in 
our response to the Goodwill key audit matter above. We then assessed the recoverability of 
the deferred tax assets recognised against the forecast of future taxable profits taking into 
account the timing of taxable profits/ expiry of carry forward tax losses. We also assessed 
whether the Group’s disclosure in note 6(ix) of the consolidated financial statements reflect 
the associated inherent risks. Also refer note 2(t) of the consolidated financial statements 
for the related accounting policy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
321
OTHER INFORMATION
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Holding Company’s 
annual report, but does not include the financial statements 
and auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the 
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to 
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
MANAGEMENT’S 
AND 
BOARD 
OF 
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
consolidated financial statements in term of the requirements 
of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state 
of affairs, consolidated profit and other comprehensive loss, 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated 
cash flows of the Group including its associates and joint 
ventures in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. The respective 
Management and Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group and the respective Management and Board of 
Directors of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
each company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
by the Management and Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective 
Management and Board of Directors of the Companies included 
in the Group and the respective Management and Board of 
Directors of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for 
assessing the ability of each company to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the 
Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the Companies included in 
the Group of its associates and joint ventures are responsible 
for overseeing the financial reporting process of each company.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
322
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and Board 
of Directors.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparation of consolidated financial 
statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group and its associates and 
joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial statements of such entities or business 
activities within the Group and its associates and joint 
ventures to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the financial 
statements of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements, which have been audited by other 
auditor, such other auditor remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audit 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion. Our responsibilities in this regard are further 
described in paragraph (a) of the section titled “Other 
Matters” in this audit report.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
OTHER MATTERS
a.	
We did not audit the financial statements of one 
subsidiary, whose financial statements reflect total assets 
(before consolidation adjustments) of Rs. 2,115.19 lacs as 
at 31 March 2025, total revenues (before consolidation 
adjustments) of Rs. 1,958.46 lacs and net cash inflows 
(before consolidation adjustments) amounting to Rs. 
43.82 lacs for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. These financial 
statements have been audited by other auditor whose 
report has been furnished to us by the Management and 
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in 
so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of this subsidiary, and our report in terms of 
sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiary is based solely on the 
report of the other auditor.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
323
	
This subsidiary is located outside India whose financial 
statements and other financial information have been 
prepared in accordance with accounting principles 
generally accepted in its country and which has been 
audited by other auditor under generally accepted 
auditing standards applicable in its country. The 
Holding Company’s management has converted the 
financial statements of such subsidiary located outside 
India from accounting principles generally accepted in 
its country to accounting principles generally accepted 
in India. We have audited these conversion adjustments 
made by the Holding Company’s management. Our 
opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs 
of such subsidiary located outside India is based on the 
report of other auditor and the conversion adjustments 
prepared by the management of the Holding Company 
and audited by us.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of this matter with 
respect to our reliance on the work done and the report 
of the other auditor.
b.	
The financial information of fifteen subsidiaries, whose 
financial information reflects total assets (before 
consolidation adjustments) of Rs. 32,578.26 lacs as at 
31 March 2025, total revenues (before consolidation 
adjustments) of Rs. 1,142.50 lacs and net cash outflows 
(before consolidation adjustments) amounting to 
Rs. 553.95 lacs for the year ended on that date, as 
considered in the consolidated financial statements, 
have not been audited either by us or by other auditors. 
The consolidated financial statements also include the 
Group’s share of net profit (and other comprehensive 
income) of Rs. 1,152.29 lacs for the year ended 
31 March 2025, as considered in the consolidated 
financial statements, in respect of two associates and 
three joint ventures, whose financial information have 
not been audited by us or by other auditors. These 
unaudited financial information have been furnished 
to us by the Management and our opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates 
to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of 
these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our 
report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the 
Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates, is based solely on such 
unaudited financial information. In our opinion and 
according to the information and explanations given to 
us by the Management, these financial information are 
not material to the Group.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of this matter with respect 
to the financial information certified by the Management.
REPORT 
ON 
OTHER 
LEGAL 
AND 
REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2A.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of 
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books except for the matter stated in the paragraph 
2B(f) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
c.	
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and the consolidated statement 
of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified under 
Section 133 of the Act.
	
e.	
The matters described in the Emphasis of Matters 
paragraph above, in our opinion, may have an 
adverse effect on the functioning of the Holding 
Company.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
324
	
f.	
Refer Note 29 to the financial statements wherein it 
is stated that one of the directors of a subsidiary has 
not produced a written representation to confirm 
that the director was not disqualified as on 31 March 
2025 from being appointed in terms of Section 164(2) 
of the Act. In the absence of this representation, we 
are unable to comment whether the director of the 
subsidiary is disqualified from being appointed as a 
director under sub-section (2) of section 164 of the 
Act. As far as other directors are concerned, on the 
basis of the written representations received from the 
directors of the Holding Company as on 01 April 2025 
and taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of other subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India, none of the other directors of the Group 
companies incorporated in India is disqualified as on 
31 March 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
g.	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith are 
as stated in the paragraph 2A(b) above on reporting 
under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 2B(f) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
h.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary companies and 
joint venture company incorporated in India and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure B”.
B.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our 
opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us:
	
a.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose the 
impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2025 
on the consolidated financial position of the Group, 
its associates and joint ventures. Refer Note 6(xix), 
13, 14, 27, 28 and 30 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
b.	
The Group, its associates and joint ventures did not 
have any material foreseeable losses on long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts during the 
year ended 31 March 2025.
	
c.	
There are no amounts which are required to be 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company or its subsidiary 
companies and joint venture company incorporated 
in India during the year ended 31 March 2025.
	
d	
(i)	
The management of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented to us 
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Holding Company or any of 
such subsidiary companies to or in any other 
persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary 
companies (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(ii)	
The management of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiary companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to us that, to 
the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds 
have been received by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiary companies from any 
persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary 
companies shall directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in 
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
325
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(iii)	 Based on the audit procedures that have been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
Rule 11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
	
e.	
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company 
and three subsidiary companies during the year, in 
respect of the same declared for the previous year, 
is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the 
extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
The interim dividend declared and paid by four 
subsidiary companies during the year, in respect 
of the same declared for the previous year, is in 
compliance accordance with Section 123 of the Act 
to the extent it applied to payment of dividend.
	
	
As stated in Note 34 to the consolidated financial 
statements, the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and two subsidiary companies have 
proposed final dividend for the year which is subject 
to the approval of the respective members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meetings. The dividend 
proposed is in accordance with Section 123 of the 
Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
	
f.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, except for the instances mentioned below, 
the Holding Company and its subsidiaries companies 
incorporated in India whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act, have used accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account, which 
have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the respective 
software:
	
	
i.	
In respect of the Holding Company and seven 
subsidiary companies, the feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility was not enabled 
on certain non-editable fields/ tables of the 
accounting software used for maintaining 
the books of account relating to revenue and 
consumption records.
	
	
ii.	
In respect of three subsidiary companies, the 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) was 
not enabled at the application level for the 
accounting software used for maintaining the 
books of account relating to general ledger and 
other related records for certain fields relating 
to areas such as revenue, inventory, procure to 
pay and property, plant and equipment.
	
	
iii.	
In respect of three subsidiary companies, the 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
was not enabled at the database level to log any 
direct data changes for the accounting software 
used for maintaining the books of accounts 
relating to revenue process and general ledger.
	
	
iv.	
In respect of a subsidiary company, the 
accounting softwares used for maintaining the 
books of account relating to general ledger and 
revenue process at one of the laboratory, did 
not have the feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility.
	
	
Further, where audit trail (edit log) facility was 
enabled and operated for the respective accounting 
software, we did not come across any instance of the 
audit trail feature being tampered with.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
326
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
	
	
Additionally, except to the extent audit trail was not 
enabled for the previous year, the audit trail has been 
preserved by the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India, as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention.
C.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s 
Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us the remuneration paid during the 
current year by the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies to its directors is in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration 
paid to any director by the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary companies is not in excess of the limit laid down 
under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs has not prescribed other details under Section 
197(16) of the Act which are required to be commented 
upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership No.: 076124
Date: 20 May 2025
ICAI UDIN:25076124BMRJWH6244
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
327
(xxi)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, following companies incorporated in India and 
included in the consolidated financial statements, have unfavourable remarks, qualification or adverse remarks given by the 
respective auditors in their reports under the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (CARO):
Sr. 
No.
Name of the entities
CIN
Holding 
Company/ 
Subsidiary/ JV/ 
Associate
Clause number of the 
CARO report which is 
unfavourable or qualified 
or adverse
1
Fortis Healthcare Limited
L85110PB1996PLC045933
Holding Company
3(iii)(c), 3(iii)(d), 3(iii)(e)
2
Fortis Hospitals Limited
U93000DL2009PLC222166
Subsidiary
3(iii)(c), 3(iii)(d), 3(iii)(e), 3(vii)
(a)
3
Escorts Heart Institute and Research 
Centre Limited
U85110CH2000PLC023744
Subsidiary
3(i)(c), 3(iii)(c), 3(iii)(d), 3(iii)(e)
4
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
U74899PB1995PLC045956
Subsidiary
3(i)(c), 3(vii)(a)
5
Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited
U85195DL1999PTC217659
Subsidiary
3(i)(c), (vii)(a)
6
DDRC Agilus Pathlabs Limited
U85190MH2006PLC161480
Subsidiary
3(vii)(a)
7
Escort Heart and Super Speciality 
Hospital Limited
U85110DL2003PLC120016
Subsidiary
3(ix)(a)
8
International Hospital Limited
U74999HR1994PLC048225
Subsidiary
3(iii)(c), 3(iii)(e), 3(ix)(a)
9
Hiranandani Healthcare Private 
Limited
U85100MH2005PTC154823
Subsidiary
3(i)(c)
10
Fortis Health Management Limited
U85110DL2008PLC176412
Subsidiary
3(iii)(e), 3(ix)(a), 3(xvii)
11
Fortis Hospotel Limited
U74899HR1990PLC054770
Subsidiary
3(vii)(a)
12
Malar Stars Medicare Limited
U93000TN2009PLC072209
Subsidiary
3(xvii)
	
The above does not include comments, if any, in respect of the following entities as the CARO report relating to them has not 
been issued by its auditors till the date of this audit report.
Name of the entities
CIN
Subsidiary/JV/Associate
Fortis Healthstaff Limited
U85194DL1984PLC205390
Subsidiary
Fortis Cancer Care Limited
U85110DL2011PLC217420
Subsidiary
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly known as 
Fortis La Femme Limited)
U85100DL2011PLC217500
Subsidiary
Fortis Health Management (East) Limited
U85190DL2011PLC217462
Subsidiary
Birdie and Birdie Realtors Private Limited
U45400DL2008PTC173959
Subsidiary
ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FORTIS 
HEALTHCARE LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2025
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even 
date)
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
328
Name of the entities
CIN
Subsidiary/JV/Associate
Stellant Capital Advisory Services Private Limited
U31300MH2005PTC153134
Subsidiary
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
U45202DL1988PTC033270
Subsidiary
Fortis Emergency Services Limited
U93000DL2009PLC189866
Subsidiary
Artistery Properties Private Limited
U70101WB2005PTC102910
Subsidiary
Agilus Reach Limited
U85100DL2015PLC279712
Subsidiary
Fortis C - Doc Healthcare Limited
U85110DL2010PLC208379
Joint Venture
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership No.: 076124
Date: 20 May 2025
ICAI UDIN:25076124BMRJWH6244
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
329
OPINION
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Fortis Healthcare Limited (hereinafter referred to 
as “the Holding Company”) as of and for the year ended 31 
March 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company 
and such companies incorporated in India under the Act which 
are its subsidiary companies, as of that date.
In our opinion the Holding Company and such companies 
incorporated in India which are its subsidiary companies, have, 
in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements and such internal financial 
controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2025, based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by such companies considering 
the essential components of such internal controls stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
MANAGEMENT’S 
AND 
BOARD 
OF 
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of 
Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements criteria 
established by the respective company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the 
respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
ANNEXURE B TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FORTIS 
HEALTHCARE LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2025
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause 
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(h) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of 
even date)
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements were established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH 
REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
330
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements include those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of 
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
INHERENT 
LIMITATIONS 
OF 
INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
OTHER MATTER
The internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements insofar as it relates to ten subsidiary companies and 
one joint venture company, which are companies incorporated 
in India and included in these consolidated financial statements, 
have not been audited either by us or by other auditors. In our 
opinion and according to the information and explanations 
given to us by the Management, such unaudited subsidiary 
companies and joint venture company are not material to the 
Holding Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership No.: 076124
Date: 20 May 2025
ICAI UDIN:25076124BMRJWH6244
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
331
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
 March 31, 2025 
 (₹ in Lakhs) 
 As at 
 March 31, 2024
 (₹ in Lakhs) 
ASSETS
A. 
Non-current assets
(a)
Property, plant and equipment
6(i)(a)
 4,69,665.32 
 4,09,678.98 
(b)
Capital work-in-progress
6(i)(b)
 40,391.38 
 54,044.60 
(c) 
Right-of-use assets
10
 1,15,150.23 
 1,17,077.56 
(d) 
Goodwill
6(ii)
 4,19,416.00 
 4,19,416.00 
(e) 
Other intangible assets
6(iii)(a)
 38,146.70 
 41,192.52 
(f) 
Intangible assets under development
6(iii)(b)
 262.55 
 152.45 
(g) 
Investments accounted for using the equity method
6(iv)(a)
 16,897.59 
 22,965.10 
(h) 
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
6(iv)(b)
 12.31 
 12.31 
(ii)
Loans
6(vi)
 229.06 
 148.27 
(iii)
Other financial assets
6(vii)
 5,640.59 
 5,340.05 
(i) 
Non-current tax assets (net)
6(viii)(a)
 69,313.53 
 77,150.94 
(j) 
Deferred tax assets (net)
6(ix)
 31,454.82 
 31,741.41 
(k) 
Other non-current assets
6(x)
 15,436.73 
 7,898.94 
Total non-current assets (A)
 12,22,016.81 
 11,86,819.13 
B. 
Current assets
(a)
Inventories
6(xi)
 11,529.18 
 10,741.64 
(b)
Financial assets
(i)
Trade receivables
6(v)
 78,448.82 
 62,782.94 
(ii)
Cash and cash equivalents
6(xii)
 13,972.26 
 23,526.79 
(iii)
Bank balances other than (ii) above
6(xiii)
 36,826.99 
 36,312.85 
(iv)
Loans
6(vi)
 175.47 
 158.34 
(v)
Other financial assets
6(vii)
 1,080.02 
 3,763.05 
(c)
Other current assets
6(x)
 5,103.17 
 4,738.82 
(d)
Assets classified as held for sale 
6(xiv)
 - 
 34.46 
Total current assets (B)
 1,47,135.91 
 1,42,058.89 
Total assets (A+B)
 13,69,152.72 
 13,28,878.02 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
A. 
Equity
(a)
Equity share capital
6(xv)
 75,495.81 
 75,495.81 
(b)
Other equity 
 8,16,155.73 
 6,90,793.88 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
 8,91,651.54 
 7,66,289.69 
Non-controlling interests
21
 25,287.49 
 89,324.08 
Total equity (A)
 9,16,939.03 
 8,55,613.77 
B.
Liabilities
I.  Non-current liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i) 
Borrowings
6(xvii)
 2,08,572.37 
 74,085.22 
(ii) 
Lease liabilities
10
 22,560.11 
 24,496.96 
(iii)
Other financial liabilities
6(xviii)
 75.05 
 80.05 
(b)
Provisions
6(xix)
 16,291.84 
 14,657.05 
(c)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
6(ix)
 43,983.03 
 42,928.10 
Total non-current liabilities (B)
 2,91,482.40 
 1,56,247.38 
II.  Current liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
6(xvii)
 10,958.93 
 11,744.54 
(ii)
Lease liabilities
10
 5,419.47 
 5,175.00 
(iii)
Trade payables
-Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
6(xx)
 10,627.61 
 14,475.11 
-Total outstanding dues other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
6(xx)
 70,133.92 
 58,304.07 
(iv)
Other financial liabilities
6(xviii)
 38,017.69 
 2,01,908.60 
(b)
Provisions
6(xix)
 5,897.48 
 5,567.20 
(c)
Current tax liabilities (net)
6(viii)(b)
 3,296.76 
 3,876.24 
(d)
Other current liabilities
6(xxi)
 16,379.43 
 15,966.11 
Total current liabilities (C)
 1,60,731.29 
 3,17,016.87 
Total liabilities (B+C)
 4,52,213.69 
 4,73,264.25 
Total equity and liabilities (A+B+C)
 13,69,152.72 
 13,28,878.02 
See accompanying notes forming integral part of the consolidated financial statements
1 - 41
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
332
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS for the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Notes
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(₹ in Lakhs)
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
 (₹ in Lakhs) 
I
Revenue from operations
6(xxii)
 7,78,275.21 
 6,89,291.71 
II
Other income
6(xxiii)
 6,694.01 
 3,825.01 
III
Total Income (I+II)
 7,84,969.22 
 6,93,116.72 
IV
Expenses
(i)
Purchases of medical consumable and drugs
 1,83,806.63 
 1,60,325.17 
(ii)
Changes in inventories of medical consumable and drugs
6(xxiv)
 (787.54)
 1,542.83 
(iii)
Employee benefits expense
6(xxv)
 1,16,723.88 
 1,11,952.77 
(iv)
Finance costs
6(xxvi)
 18,441.48 
 13,094.51 
(v)
Depreciation and amortisation expense
6(xxvii)
 38,561.48 
 34,249.75 
(vi)
Other expenses
6(xxviii)
 3,19,737.24 
 2,88,707.84 
Total expenses
 6,76,483.17 
 6,09,872.87 
V
Profit from continuing operations before share of profit of equity accounted 
investees and tax (III-IV)	
 1,08,486.05 
 83,243.85 
VI
Share of profit of equity accounted investees (net of tax) 
26
 1,152.29 
 951.04 
VII
Profit before exceptional item and tax (V+VI)
 1,09,638.34 
 84,194.89 
Exceptional (loss) /gain
6(xxix)
 (8,933.61)
 1,601.74 
VIII
Profit before tax
 1,00,704.73 
 85,796.63 
IX
Tax expense
(i)
Current tax
6(ix)
 18,223.93 
 16,682.25 
(ii)
Deferred tax charge (net)
6(ix)
 1,542.34 
 4,592.47 
Total tax expense
 19,766.27 
 21,274.72 
X
Profit for the year (VIII-IX) 
 80,938.46 
 64,521.91 
Other comprehensive income
(i)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
(a) 	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit liabilities
 (797.33)
 (215.18)
(b) 	
Income tax credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 200.82 
 52.02 
(ii)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
(a) 	
Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign 
operations
 244.56 
 341.63 
XI
Total other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year
 (351.95)
 178.47 
XII
Total comprehensive income for the year( X+XI)
 80,586.51 
 64,700.38 
Profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to:
(i) 	
Owners of the Company
 77,421.52 
 59,887.55 
(ii) 	
Non-controlling interests
 3,516.94 
 4,634.36 
 80,938.46 
 64,521.91 
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
(i) 	
Owners of the Company
 (321.31)
 224.39 
(ii) 	
Non-controlling interests
 (30.64)
 (45.92)
 (351.95)
 178.47 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
(i) 	
Owners of the Company
 77,100.21 
 60,111.94 
(ii) 	
Non-controlling interests
 3,486.30 
 4,588.44 
 80,586.51 
 64,700.38 
Earnings per equity share of ` 10 each:
6(xxx)
(i) 	
Basic (in `)
 10.26 
 7.93 
(ii) 	
Diluted (in `)
 10.26 
 7.93 
See accompanying notes forming integral part of the consolidated financial statements 
1 - 41
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
333
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax for the year
 1,00,704.73 
 85,796.63 
Adjustments for:
Exceptional loss/(gain) (net)
 8,933.61 
 (1,601.74)
Finance costs
 18,441.48 
 13,094.51 
Interest income
 (5,983.45)
 (2,989.38)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
 (348.68)
 (350.18)
Gain arising on financial assets designated at FVTPL
 (0.42)
 - 
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
 6,180.45 
 3,962.13 
Allowance for doubtful advances
 212.49 
 1,265.99 
Contingent consideration payment of lab acquisition
 1,015.11 
 - 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 38,561.48 
 34,249.75 
Provision for litigations
 3.52 
 18.96 
Share of profit of equity accounted investees (net of tax)
 (1,152.29)
 (951.04)
Gain on sale of investment 
 (25.42)
 (38.11)
Provisions/ liabilities no longer required written back
 (2,222.72)
 (2,269.06)
Unrealised foreign exchange loss
 75.40 
 36.37 
 1,64,395.29 
 1,30,224.83 
Working capital adjustments
Increase in trade and other receivables
 (21,988.75)
 (8,788.26)
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
 (864.14)
 1,389.19 
Decrease/ (Increase) in loans, other assets and other financial assets
 871.76 
 (2,287.62)
Increase in trade payables
 10,436.25 
 5,194.09 
Increase in other liabilities, provisions and other financial liabilities
 508.77 
 6,458.44 
Cash generated from operating activities
 1,53,359.18 
 1,32,190.67 
Income taxes paid (net)
 (10,965.99)
 (22,181.00)
Net cash generated by operating activities
(A)
 1,42,393.19 
 1,10,009.67 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
 5,965.43 
 2,977.54 
Investment in bank deposits (net)
 (546.52)
 (14,139.99)
Payments for property, plant and equipment & intangible assets
 (84,693.78)
 (94,246.64)
Proceeds on sale of assets held for sale (net of cost of disposal)
 285.09 
 - 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 1,449.25 
 1,446.14 
Proceeds from disposal of asset held for sale (refer note 35(a))
 - 
 14,976.97 
Proceeds from disposal of assets held in subsidiary (refer note 35(b))
 - 
 11,248.09 
Proceeds from disposal of asset under slump sale(refer note 35(c))
 2,275.31 
 - 
Payment for acquisition of equity in subsidiary (refer note 36(f))
 - 
 (4,769.17)
Amount received back from joint venture
 88.33 
 80.00 
Purchase of current investment
 (9,899.51)
 (11,149.44)
Proceeds from sale of current investment
 9,924.93 
 11,187.55 
Dividends received from associates
 - 
 427.14 
Dividend received from joint venture
 - 
 58.50 
Payment for acquisition for assets in business combinations ((refer note 36(a) to 36(d))
 (2,786.43)
 (6,733.42)
Net cash used in investing activities
(B)
 (77,937.90)
 (88,636.73)
Cash flows from financing activities (refer note 6(xvi))
Proceeds from issue of non-convertible debentures (refer note 11I)
 1,55,000.00 
 - 
Proceeds from non-current borrowing
 1,089.51 
 61,189.12 
Principal payment of lease liabilities
 (5,196.63)
 (5,591.76)
Payment for acquisition of non-controlling interest stake of subsidiary [refer note 12(b)]
 (1,77,773.84)
 - 
Repayments of non-current borrowing
 (19,848.83)
 (42,255.20)
Proceeds /(repayments) of short-term borrowings (net)
 39.63 
 (385.82)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
334
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow (Contd.)
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Finance cost paid (including interest on lease liabilities of ` 2,669.28 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 
` 2,855.96 Lakhs))
 (13,808.04)
 (12,998.99)
Dividend paid
 (10,887.25)
 (8,603.18)
Net cash used in financing activities
(C)
 (71,385.45)
 (8,645.83)
Effect of exchange rate changes
(D)
 (45.60)
 (275.18)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
(A+B+C+D)
 (6,975.76)
 12,451.93 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 16,966.46 
 4,514.53 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
6(xii)
 9,990.70 
 16,966.46 
Note
1. 	
The consolidated statement of cash flow has been prepared in accordance with “Indirect Method” as set out on Ind AS -7 on “Statement of Cash flows”.
2. 	
During the year, the Group has paid ` 1,476.64 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 ` 1,177.45 Lakhs) towards corporate social responsibility expenditure (refer note 23).
See accompanying notes forming integral part of the consolidated financial statements 
1 - 41
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
335
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGE IN EQUITY for the year ended March 31, 2025
A.	
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
No. in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Equity shares of ` 10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2023
 7,549.58 
 75,495.81 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 7,549.58 
 75,495.81 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 7,549.58 
 75,495.81 
B.	
OTHER EQUITY 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in lakhs)
Particulars
Other equity
Equity 
attributable to 
owners of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interests 
(Refer Note 
21)
Reserves and Surplus
Items of other 
comprehensive 
income
Securities 
premium*
Retained 
earnings
Share options 
outstanding 
Account****
Amalgamation 
reserve**
General 
reserve***
Capital 
reserve*****
Other 
Reserves******
Exchange 
difference on 
translation of 
foreign operations
Balance at April 01, 2023 (A)
 7,21,519.40  (1,01,407.43)
 175.18 
 156.00 
 45,016.29 
 337.50 
 (1,432.06)
 (15,634.45)
 6,48,730.43 
 85,812.57 
Profit for the year
 - 
 59,887.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 59,887.55 
 4,634.36 
Other comprehensive income for 
the year (net of income tax)
 - 
 (117.24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 341.63 
 224.39 
 (45.92)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year (B)
 - 
 59,770.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 341.63 
 60,111.94 
 4,588.44 
Put option (refer note 12(b) & 20 )
 - 
 (10,500.00)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (10,500.00)
 - 
Dividend payment to Shareholders
 - 
 (7,548.49)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7,548.49)
 (1,076.93)
Balance at March 31, 2024 (C) 
 7,21,519.40 
 (59,685.61)
 175.18 
 156.00 
 45,016.29 
 337.50 
 (1,432.06)
 (15,292.82)
 6,90,793.88 
 89,324.08 
Profit for the year
 - 
 77,421.52 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77,421.52 
 3,516.94 
Other comprehensive income for 
the year (net of income tax)
 - 
 (565.87)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 244.56 
 (321.31)
 (30.64)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year (D)
 - 
 76,855.65 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 244.56 
 77,100.21 
 3,486.30 
Put option (refer note 12(b) & 20 )
 - 
 (8,173.84)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8,173.84)
 - 
Purchase of stake in a subsidiary 
company from non controlling 
interest (refer below note)
 - 
 1,77,773.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,77,773.84  (64,171.69)
Adjustment for difference in NCI 
acquired and consideration paid 
(refer note below)
 -  (1,13,602.15)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,13,602.15)
 - 
Dividend payment to Shareholders
 - 
 (7,736.21)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7,736.21)
 (3,351.20)
Balance at March 31, 2025 (E) 
 7,21,519.40 
 65,431.68 
 175.18 
 156.00 
 45,016.29 
 337.50 
 (1,432.06)
 (15,048.26)
 8,16,155.73 
 25,287.49 
	
* The unutilised accumulated excess of issue price over face value on issue of shares. This reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
** Amalgamation reserve was created on amalgamation of Escorts Heart Institute Research Centre, Delhi (Delhi Society) with a Society at Chandigarh with a similar name (Chandigarh Society) and later on, 
registration of the amalgamated Society as Company.
	
*** General reserve is created from time to time by way of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. General reserve is created by a transfer from one component of equity to another.
	
**** The fair value of the equity settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss with corresponding credit to share options outstanding account.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
336
	
***** Capital reserve represents the equity and reserves of SRL Diagnostics FZ-LLC acquired during the year 2016-17 through common control business combination.
	
****** This represents the loss on dilution of shareholding in a subsidiary (SRL Limited) company during the year ended March 31, 2012.	
	
Note : During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has purchased non-controlling interest stake of 31.21% represented by 2,47,18,275 equity shares in Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited (ADL) for total consideration of ` 177,773.84 Lakhs. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, no gain/loss has been recorded on the 
transaction and the share of non-controlling interest acquired of ` 64,171.69 has been transferred to retained earnings. Difference between the amount by which NCI are 
acquired and the fair value of the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent. Also refer note 12(b).	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
See accompanying notes forming integral part of the consolidated financial statements 
1 - 41
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
In terms of our report attached
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
RAJESH ARORA
ASHUTOSH RAGHUVANSHI
INDRAJIT BANERJEE
Partner
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
DIN: 02775637
DIN: 01365405
SATYENDRA CHAUHAN
VIVEK KUMAR GOYAL
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS 14783
Place : Gurugram
Place : Gurugram
Date : May 20, 2025
Date : May 20, 2025
B. OTHER EQUITY (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
337
1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited (“the Company” or the “Parent 
Company”) CIN: L85110PB1996PLC045933, a public 
limited company, was incorporated in 1996. Its equity 
shares are listed on BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited. The registered office of the 
Company is situated at Fortis Hospital Sector-62 Phase-VIII, 
Mohali 160062, Punjab and the corporate office of the 
Company is situated at Tower A, Unitech Business Park, 
Block - F South City - 1, Sector-41 Gurugram 122001, 
Haryana.
	
As a part of its business activities, the Company holds 
interests in its subsidiaries (the Company and its 
subsidiaries hereinafter referred to as the ‘Group’) and the 
Group’s interest in associates and joint ventures through 
which it manage and operate a network of multi-specialty 
hospitals and diagnostics centers.
	
On November 13, 2018, IHH Healthcare Berhad acquired 
31.10% stake in the Company and appointed majority 
of board of directors, thereby, becoming the controlling 
shareholder of the Company.
2.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements (“financial statements”). The accounting 
policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous 
financial year.
(a)	 Basis of preparation
	
(i)	
Statement of compliance
	
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended 
from time to time, notified under Section 133 of 
Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”) and other relevant 
provisions of the Act. All the amounts included in the 
financial statements are reported in Lakhs of Indian 
Rupees and rounded off to two decimals, except per 
share data.
	
(ii)	 Functional and presentation currency
	
	
These 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
are 
presented in Indian Rupees, which is also the 
Group’s functional currency. However, the functional 
currency of the following foreign subsidiaries, joint 
venture and associates is as follows:
	
	
Subsidiaries:
	
	
-	
Agilus Diagnostics FZ – LLC- Arab Emirate 
Dirham (AED)
	
	
-	
Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte Limited- United States 
Dollar (US$)
	
	
-	
Fortis Healthcare International Limited- United 
States Dollar (US$)
	
	
-	
Fortis Global Healthcare (Mauritius) Limited- 
United States Dollar (US$)
	
	
Joint Venture:
	
	
-	
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private Limited - 
Nepalese Rupees (NPR)
	
	
Associates:
	
	
-	
Lanka Hospitals Corporate Plc- Sri Lankan 
Rupee (LKR)
	
	
-	
RHT Health Trust Trustee Manager- Singapore 
Dollar (SGD)
	
(iii)	 Basis of measurement
	
	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared under historical cost convention on accrual 
basis except for the following items:
Item basis
Measurement
Derivative assets
Fair value
Derivative liability
Fair value
Put option liability
Fair value
Contingent consideration 
assumed in a business 
combination
Fair value
Net defined benefit 
(asset)/ liability
Fair value of plan assets 
less the present value 
of the defined benefit 
obligation
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
338
(b)	 Basis of consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
consolidated financial statement of the Group and its 
interest in associates and joint ventures. Control is achieved 
when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and 
only if the Group has:
	
(i)	
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give 
it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of 
the investee)
	
(ii)	
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee, and
	
(iii)	 The ability to use its power over the investee to affect 
its returns.
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and 
when the Group has less than a majority of the voting 
or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all 
relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it 
has power over an investee, including:
	
(i)	
The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee.
	
(ii)	
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
	
(iii)	 The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
	
(iv)	 The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights 
relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings of 
the other voting rights holders.
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an 
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are 
changes to one or more of the three elements of control. 
Consolidation of an entity begins when the Group obtains 
control over that entity and ceases when the Group loses 
control over the entity. Assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of an entity acquired or disposed of during 
the year are included in these consolidated financial 
statements from the date the Group gains control until 
the date the Group ceases to control the entity.
	
These consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other 
events in similar circumstances. If a member of the Group 
uses accounting policies other than those adopted in these 
consolidated financial statements for like transactions and 
events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments 
are made to that Group member’s financial statements 
in preparing these consolidated financial statements to 
ensure conformity with the Group’s accounting policies.
	
The financial statements of all entities used for the 
purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting 
date as that of the parent company. When the end of 
the reporting period of the parent is different from that 
of a member of the Group, the member prepares, for 
consolidation purposes, additional financial information 
as of the same date as the financial statements of the 
parent to enable the parent to consolidate the financial 
information of the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to 
do so.
	
Non-controlling interests (NCI)
	
NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition.
	
Changes in the Group’s equity interest in a subsidiary 
that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as 
equity transactions.
	
The details of the consolidated entities are provided in 
note 7 to these financial statements.
(c)	
 Consolidation procedure
	
a)	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with 
those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income 
and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the 
amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements at the acquisition 
date.
	
b)	
Investment in associate companies and joint ventures 
have been accounted under the equity method as 
per Ind AS 28 - “Investment in Associates and Joint 
Ventures”. Associates are those entities in which 
the Group has significant influence, but not control 
or joint control, over the financial and operating 
policies. A joint venture is an arrangement in which 
the Group has joint control, whereby the Group 
has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, 
rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its 
liabilities. b) Investment in associate companies and 
joint ventures are initially recognised at cost, which 
includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
339
recognition, the consolidated financial statements 
include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and 
OCI of equity-accounted investees, until the date on 
which significant influence or joint control ceases.
(c)	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent’s 
investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s portion of 
equity of each subsidiary. Business combinations policy 
explains how to account for any related goodwill.
(d)	 Eliminate in full, intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between entities of the Group (profits or losses resulting 
from intragroup transactions that are recognised in assets, 
such as inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). 
Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires 
recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Ind 
AS 12 “Income Taxes” applies to temporary differences 
that arise from the elimination of profits and losses 
resulting from intragroup transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive 
income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the 
parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, 
even if this results in the non-controlling interests having 
a deficit balance. Non-controlling interest in the results 
and the equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated 
statement of changes in equity and consolidated balance 
sheet.
	
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling 
interests that do not result in a loss of control as 
transactions with equity owners of the Group. A change 
in ownership interest results in an adjustment between the 
carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling 
interests to reflect their relative interests in the subsidiary. 
Any difference between the amount of the adjustment to 
non-controlling interests and any consideration paid or 
received is recognised within equity.
(d)	 Current versus non-current classification
	
Based on the time involved between the acquisition of 
assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash 
equivalents, the Group has identified twelve months as its 
operating cycle for determining current and non-current 
classification of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet.
(e)	 Measurement of fair values
	
A number of the accounting policies and disclosures 
require measurement of fair values, for both financial 
and non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair values are 
categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy 
based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as 
follows:
	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities.
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 
1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
	
The Group has an established control framework with 
respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a 
finance team that has overall responsibility for overseeing 
all significant fair value measurements, including Level 3 
fair values.
	
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, 
the Group uses observable market data as far as possible. 
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset 
or a liability fall into different levels of the fair value 
hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised 
in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy 
as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire 
measurement. The Group recognises transfers between 
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
(f)	
Business combination
	
Business combinations (other than business combinations 
between common control entities) are accounted for 
using the purchase (acquisition) method. The cost 
of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the 
consideration transferred, equity instruments issued and 
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
The consideration transferred does not include amounts 
related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships; 
such amounts are generally recognised in the statement 
of profit or loss. The cost of acquisition also includes the 
fair value of any contingent consideration. Identifiable 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
340
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially 
at fair value at the date of acquisition. Transaction costs 
incurred in connection with a business combination are 
expensed as incurred. The excess of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of the net identifiable 
assets acquired is recorded as Goodwill. If those amounts 
are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets 
of the business acquired, the difference is recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity 
as Capital Reserve provided there is clear evidence of the 
underlying reasons for classifying the business combination 
as a bargain purchase.
	
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any 
previously held equity interest is re-measured at its 
acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss 
is recognised in statement of profit or loss or OCI, as 
appropriate.
	
Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in 
entities that are under the control of the shareholder that 
controls the Group are accounted for as if the acquisition 
had occurred at the beginning of the earliest comparative 
period presented or, if later, at the date that common 
control was established; for this purpose comparatives are 
revised. The assets and liabilities acquired are recognised 
at their carrying amounts. The identity of the reserves is 
preserved and they appear in the financial statements of 
the Group in the same form in which they appeared in the 
financial statement of the acquired entity. The differences, 
if any, between the consideration and the amount of 
share capital of the acquired entity is transferred to 
capital reserve (if credit) or revenue reserves (if debit) 
and if there are no reserves or inadequate reserves, to an 
amalgamation deficit reserve (if debit), with disclosure of 
its nature and purpose in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.
(g)	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible 
assets
	
(i)	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
shall be recognised as an asset if, and only if it is 
probable that future economic benefits associated 
with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of 
the item can be measured reliably.
	
	
Freehold land is carried at cost. All other items 
of property, plant and equipment are stated at 
cost which includes capitalised finance costs, less 
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated 
impairment loss. The cost of an item of Property, 
Plant and Equipment comprises its purchase price, 
including import duties and other non-refundable 
taxes or levies, freight, any directly attributable cost 
of bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use and estimated cost of dismantling and 
restoring onsite; any trade discounts and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price.
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will 
flow to the Group and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any 
component accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
	
Advances paid towards acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment outstanding at each Balance Sheet 
date, are shown under other non-current assets and 
cost of assets not ready for intended use before the 
year end, are shown as capital work-in-progress.
	
	
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and 
equipment have different useful lives, then they are 
accounted for as separate items (major Components) 
of property, plant and equipment.
	
(ii)	 Goodwill and other intangible assets
	
	
a)	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
	
•	
For 
measurement 
of 
Goodwill 
that 
arises from business combination, refer 
to accounting policy thereon above. 
Subsequent measurement is at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses.
	
	
	
•	
Internally generated goodwill is not 
recognised as an asset. With regard to 
other internally generated intangible 
assets:
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
341
	
	
	
	
-	
Expenditure on research activities, 
undertaken with the prospect of 
gaining new scientific or technical 
knowledge and understanding, is 
recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss as incurred.
	
	
	
	
-	
Development expenditure including 
regulatory cost and legal expenses 
leading 
to 
product 
registration/ 
market authorisation relating to 
the new and/or improved product 
and/or 
process 
development 
is 
capitalised 
only 
if 
development 
costs can be measured reliably, the 
product or process is technically 
and commercially feasible, future 
economic benefits are probable, 
and the Group intends to and has 
sufficient resources to complete 
development and to use the asset. 
The expenditure capitalised includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour, 
overhead costs that are directly 
attributable to preparing the asset 
for its intended use, and directly 
attributable finance costs (in the 
same manner as in the case of 
property, plant and equipment). 
Other development expenditure is 
recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss as incurred.
	
	
	
	
	
•	
Intangible 
assets 
acquired 
separately 
are 
measured 
on 
initial 
recognition 
at 
cost. The cost of intangible 
assets acquired in a business 
combination 
is 
recognised 
at fair value at the date of 
acquisition. 
An 
intangible 
asset is recognised only if it is 
probable that future economic 
benefits attributable to the 
asset will flow to the Group 
and the cost of the asset can be 
measured reliably. After initial 
recognition, other intangible 
assets, 
including 
those 
required by group in a business 
combination and have finite 
lives are measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and 
any accumulated impairment 
loss.
	
	
b)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only 
when it increases the future economic benefits 
embodied in the specific asset to which it relates 
and the cost of the asset can be measured 
reliably. All other expenditure, including 
expenditure on internally generated goodwill 
and brands, is recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred.
	
	
c)	
Amortisation
	
	
	
Amortisation is calculated to write off the 
cost of intangible assets less their estimated 
residual values using the straight-line method 
over their estimated useful lives and is generally 
recognised in depreciation and amortisation in 
statement of profit and loss. Goodwill is not 
amortised.
	
	
	
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual 
values are reviewed at each reporting date and 
adjusted if appropriate.
	
(iii)	 Depreciation 
and 
amortisation 
methods, 
estimated useful lives and residual value
	
	
Depreciation is provided on straight line basis on 
the original cost/ acquisition cost of assets or other 
amounts substituted for cost of property, plant and 
equipment as per the useful life specified in Part 
‘C’ of Schedule II of the Act, read with notification 
dated August 29, 2014 of the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, except for certain classes of property, plant 
and equipment which are depreciated based on the 
internal technical assessment of the management.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
342
	
	
The details of useful life are as under:
Category of 
assets
Management 
estimate of 
useful life
Useful life as 
per Schedule II
Buildings
Upto 60 years
60 years
Plant and 
machinery
3-20 years
15 years
Medical 
equipment
2-16 years
13 years
Computers
3-6 years
3 years
Furniture and 
fittings
4-16 years
10 years
Office 
equipment
4-5 years
5 years
Vehicles
4-8 years
8 years
	
	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
	
	
Depreciation on leasehold improvements is provided 
over the lease term or expected useful life of the 
asset, whichever is lower.
	
	
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that they might be 
impaired.
	
	
Estimated useful lives of the other intangible assets 
are as follows:
Category of assets
Management 
estimate of 
Useful Life
Software
3-6 years
User license agreement
3-5 years
License fees
3-10 years
Trademark with indefinite life 
(refer note 36)
Indefinite
Other 
Trademark 
and 
Non-
Compete
3-10 years
Technical Know-how
3-5 Years
Customer relationships
 15 Years
	
	
Depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets added/disposed off 
during the year has been provided on pro-rata basis 
with reference to the date of addition/disposal.
	
	
Depreciation and amortisation methods, useful lives 
and residual values are reviewed at the end of each 
reporting period and adjusted if appropriate.
	
(iv)	 Derecognition
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
are derecognised on disposal or when no future 
economic benefits are expected from their use and 
disposal. Losses arising from retirement and gains or 
losses arising from disposal of a tangible asset are 
measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and 
are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
(h)	 Assets held for sale
	
Assets are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable 
that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than 
through continuing use. Such assets are generally measured 
at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
cost to sell. Losses on initial classification as held for sale 
and subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
	
Once classified as held-for sale, property, plant and 
equipment, right of use assets and intangible assets are 
no longer amortised or depreciated.
(i)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an 
indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and 
are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they 
might be impaired. The Group’s non-financial assets other 
than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, 
then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
	
For impairment testing, assets that do not generate 
independent cash inflows (i.e. corporate assets) are 
grouped together into cash-generating units (CGUs). 
Each CGU represents the smallest group of assets that 
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the 
cash inflows of other assets or CGUs. Goodwill is allocated 
to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment 
testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating 
units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected 
to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose. The units or groups of units are identified 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
343
at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for 
internal management purposes.
	
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its value 
in use and its fair value less costs to sell. Value in use is 
based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted 
to their present value using a discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the CGU.
	
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount 
of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable 
amount. Impairment loss recognised in respect of a CGU 
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the 
carrying amount of the other assets of the CGU (or group 
of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
	
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not 
subsequently reversed. In respect of other assets for which 
impairment loss has been recognised in prior periods, 
the Group reviews at reporting date whether there is any 
indication that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. 
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Such a reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(j)	
Financial instrument
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity.
	
Financial assets
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Trade receivables and debt securities issued are initially 
recognised when they are originated. All other financial 
assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised when 
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
	
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without 
a significant financing component) or financial liability is 
initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item 
not at FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to its acquisition or issue. A trade receivable without a 
significant financing component is initially measured at 
the transaction price.
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery 
of assets within a time frame established by regulation or 
convention in the market place (regular way trades) are 
recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets 
are classified in four categories:
	
•	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
•	
Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI)
	
•	
Debt instruments, derivatives and equity instruments 
at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
•	
Equity instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if 
the asset is held within a business model whose objective 
is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and 
contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. The effective interest 
rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash payments or receipts through the expected life of 
the financial instrument to the gross carrying amount of 
the financial asset or the amortised cost of the financial 
liability. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation 
is included in other income in the statement of profit and 
loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss. This category generally 
applies to trade and other receivables.
	
Debt instrument at FVOCI
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVOCI if the 
objective of the business model is achieved both by 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
344
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial 
assets, and the asset’s contractual cash flows represent 
SPPI.
	
Debt instruments included within the FVOCI category are 
measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair 
value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other 
comprehensive income (OCI). On derecognition of the 
asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI 
is reclassified to the statement of profit and loss. Interest 
earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported 
as interest income using the EIR method.
	
Debt instrument at FVTPL
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any 
debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for 
categorisation as at amortised cost or as FVOCI, is classified 
as at FVTPL. In addition, at initial recognition, the Group 
may irrevocably elect to designate a debt instrument, 
which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVOCI criteria, as 
at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing 
so reduces or eliminates a measurement or recognition 
inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are 
measured at fair value with all changes recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss.
	
Equity investments
	
Equity investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled 
entities and associates are carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Where an indication of 
impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is 
assessed and written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount. On disposal of investments in such entities, the 
difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amounts are recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss.
	
All other equity investments which are in scope of Ind 
AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading and contingent consideration 
recognised by an acquirer in a business combination 
to which Ind AS 103 applies are classified as at FVTPL. 
For all other equity instruments in scope of Ind AS 109, 
the Group may make an irrevocable election to present 
in other comprehensive income subsequent changes 
in the fair value. The Group makes such election on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made 
on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
	
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument as 
at FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognised in the OCI. There is 
no recycling of the amounts from OCI to the statement of 
profit and loss, even on sale of investment. However, the 
Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss to retained 
earnings.
	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are 
measured at fair value with all changes recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss.
	
Dividend income from investments is recognised in 
statement of profit and loss on the date that the right to 
receive payment is established.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group recognises loss allowance using the expected 
credit loss (ECL) model for the financial assets which are 
not fair valued through profit or loss. Loss allowance for 
trade receivables with no significant financing component 
is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL. For all 
financial assets with contractual cash flows other than 
trade receivable, ECLs are measured at an amount equal 
to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk from initial recognition in which case 
those are measured at lifetime ECL. The amount of ECL (or 
reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the 
reporting date is recognised as an impairment gain or loss 
in the statement of profit or loss.
	
The Group considers a financial asset to be in default 
when the debtor is unlikely to pay its credit obligations 
to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to 
actions such as realising security (if any is held).
	
Credit-impaired financial assets
	
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether 
financial assets carried at amortised cost and debt 
securities at FVOCI are credit-impaired. A financial asset 
is ‘credit-impaired’ when one or more events that have a 
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of 
the financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial 
asset is credit-impaired includes the following observable 
data:
	
•	
significant financial difficulty of the debtor;
	
•	
a breach of contract such as a default;
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
345
	
•	
the restructuring of a loan or advance by the 
Group on terms that the Group would not consider 
otherwise;
	
•	
it is probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or 
other financial reorganisation; or
	
•	
the disappearance of an active market for a security 
because of financial difficulties.
	
Presentation of allowance for ECL in the balance 
sheet
	
Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised 
cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the 
assets.
	
Derecognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial 
asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is 
primarily derecognised (i.e., removed from the Group’s 
balance sheet) when:
	
•	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have 
expired, or
	
•	
The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 
flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation 
to pay the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-
through’ arrangement, and either (a) the Group has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
	
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 
flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through 
arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has 
retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks 
and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the 
asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred 
asset to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. 
In that case, the Group also recognises an associated 
liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability 
are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
Write-off of financial assets
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written 
off when the Group has no reasonable expectations of 
recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion 
thereof. The Group expects no significant recovery from 
the amount written off. However, financial assets that are 
written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in 
order to comply with the Group’s procedures for recovery 
of amounts due.
	
Financial liabilities
	
Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised 
cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL 
if it is classified as held‑for‑trading, or it is a derivative or 
it is designated as such on initial recognition. Financial 
liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value and net gains 
and losses, including any interest expense, are recognised 
in statement of profit or loss. Other financial liabilities 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign 
exchange gains and losses are recognised in statement of 
profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also 
recognised in statement of profit or loss.
	
Put option
	
Put options granted to non-controlling shareholders of 
subsidiaries are accounted as liability with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity (if recognition criteria are met), on a 
fair value basis.
	
Compound financial instruments
	
The components of compound financial instruments 
(comprising instruments convertible into equity shares) 
issued by the Group are classified separately as financial 
liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance 
of the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a 
financial liability and an equity instrument. A conversion 
option that will be settled by the exchange of a fixed 
amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed 
number of the Group’s own equity instruments is an 
equity instrument.
	
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component 
is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate 
for similar non-convertible instruments. This amount is 
recognised as a liability on an amortised cost basis using 
the effective interest method until extinguished upon 
conversion or at the instrument’s maturity date.
	
The conversion option classified as equity is determined 
by deducting the amount of the liability component from 
the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
346
whole. This is recognised and included in equity, net of 
income tax effects, and is not subsequently remeasured. 
In addition, the conversion option classified as equity will 
remain in equity until the conversion option is exercised, 
in which case, the balance recognised in equity will be 
transferred to other component of equity. When the 
conversion option remains unexercised at the maturity 
date of the convertible note, the balance recognised in 
equity will be transferred to retained earnings. No gain 
or loss is recognised in profit or loss upon conversion or 
expiration of the conversion option.
	
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of the convertible 
notes are allocated to the liability and equity components 
in proportion to the allocation of the gross proceeds. 
Transaction costs relating to the equity component are 
recognised directly in equity. Transaction costs relating 
to the liability component are included in the carrying 
amount of the liability component and are amortised 
over the lives of the convertible notes using the effective 
interest method.
	
Derecognition of financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another 
from the same lender on substantially different terms, or 
the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as the 
derecognition of the original liability and the recognition 
of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract 
is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair 
value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the 
fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair 
value is negative.
	
Offsetting
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
net amount presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
when, and only when, the Group currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset 
and settle the liability simultaneously.
(k)	 Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at lower of cost or net realisable 
value except scrap, which is valued at net estimated 
realisable value.
	
The Group uses weighted average method to determine 
cost for all categories of inventories except for goods in 
transit which is valued at specifically identified purchase 
cost and other direct costs incurred. Cost includes all 
costs of purchase, and other costs incurred in bringing 
the inventories to their present location and condition 
inclusive of non-refundable (adjustable) taxes wherever 
applicable.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale. The comparison of cost and net realisable 
value is made on an item-by-item basis.
(l)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand 
deposits with banks and other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or 
less.
	
For the purpose of cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalent includes cash in hand, in banks, demand 
deposits with banks and other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months 
or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts that are 
repayable on demand and are considered part of the cash 
management system.
(m)	 Contingent Liabilities and contingent assets
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed 
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group 
or a present obligation that is not recognised because 
it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability 
also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured 
reliably. The Group does not recognise a contingent 
liability but discloses its existence in the consolidated 
financial statements unless the possibility of an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits is remote. 
Contingent liabilities are reviewed by the management at 
each balance sheet date.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
347
	
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial 
statements. However, contingent assets are assessed 
continually and if it is virtually certain that an inflow of 
economic benefits will arise, the asset and related income 
are recognised in the period in which the change occurs.
(n)	  Provisions
	
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, 
the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation. If the effect of the time value of money 
is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is 
used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the present 
obligation at reporting date, taking into account the 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When 
some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a 
provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, 
the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually 
certain that reimbursement will be received and the 
amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
	
A contract is considered to be onerous when the expected 
economic benefits to be derived by the Group from the 
contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting 
its obligations under the contract. The provision for an 
onerous contract is measured at the present value of the 
lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract 
and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. 
Before such a provision is made, the Group recognises 
any impairment loss on the assets associated with that 
contract.
	
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no 
longer probable that the outflow of resources would be 
required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed.
(o)	 Government grant
	
The Group recognises government grant that compensate 
the Group for expenses in profit or loss on a systematic 
basis in the periods in which the expenses are recognised, 
unless the conditions for receiving the grant are met after 
the related expenses have been recognised. The grant 
is recognised when it becomes receivable and adjusted 
against relevant expenses in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss.
(p)	 Revenue recognition
	
Revenue primarily comprises fees charged under contract 
for inpatient and outpatient hospital services, sale of 
products comprising medical and non-medical items, 
management fees from hospitals and diagnostic services. 
Hospital services include charges for accommodation, 
medical professional services, equipment, radiology, 
laboratory and pharmaceutical goods used in treatments 
given to patients. Diagnostic services consists of fees 
received for various tests conducted in the field of 
pathology and radiology.
	
Contracts with customers could include promises to transfer 
multiple services/ products to a customer. The Group 
assesses the product/ services promised in a contract and 
identifies distinct performance obligation in the contract. 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation 
is measured at the amount of transaction price (net of 
variable consideration) allocated to that performance 
obligation. The transaction price of services rendered and 
goods sold is net of variable consideration on account of 
various discounts and schemes offered by the Group as 
part of the contract including claims. Further, the Group 
also determines whether the performance obligation is 
satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. These 
judgments and estimations are based on various factors 
including contractual terms and historical experience.
	
Revenue from inpatient hospital services and Management 
fees from hospitals is recognised over the period of time, 
as and when services are performed. Revenue from 
outpatient hospital services is recognised at a point in time 
when patient has actually received the service. Revenue 
from sale of products is recognised at the point in time 
upon transfer of control of products to customers at the 
time of delivery of goods to the customers.
	
Revenue from diagnostic services is recognised at point 
in time when the reports are generated and released to 
customers, net of discounts, if any.
	
Revenue includes only those sales for which the Group 
has acted as a principal in the transaction, takes title to 
the products, and has the risks and rewards of ownership, 
including the risk of loss for collection, delivery and 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
348
returns. Any revenue transaction for which the Group has 
acted as an agent or broker without assuming the risks 
and rewards of ownership have been reported on a net 
basis.
	
Excess of revenue earned over billings on contracts is 
recognised as unbilled revenue. Unbilled revenue is 
classified as trade receivables when there is unconditional 
right to receive cash, and only passage of time is required, 
as per contractual terms. Unearned and deferred revenue 
(“contract liability”) is recognised as other current liability 
when there is billings in excess of revenues.
	
Loyalty program liability represents the liability of the Group 
towards the points earned by the members, which entitle 
customers to discount on future purchase of services. The 
Group allocates a portion of the consideration received 
to loyalty points. The Group estimates the fair value of 
points awarded under the loyalty program by applying 
statistical techniques. Inputs to the model include making 
assumptions about expected redemption rate basis the 
Group’s historic trends of redemption and expiry period 
of the points and such estimates are subject to significant 
uncertainty. The amount allocated to the loyalty 
programme is deferred and is recognised as revenue 
when loyalty points are redeemed or the likelihood of the 
customer redeeming the loyalty points becomes remote.
	
Other operating revenue comprises revenue from various 
ancillary revenue generating activities like sponsorship 
arrangements and academic services which is recognised 
over the period of time, in accordance with the terms 
of the relevant agreements, as and when services are 
performed.
	
Income from export benefit schemes, included in other 
operating revenue, is recognised on accrual basis as and 
when eligible services are performed and convertible 
foreign exchange is received on a net basis to the extent it 
is certain that economic benefits will flow to the Group.
(q)	 Employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefits
	
All employee benefits falling due within twelve months 
of the end of the period in which the employees render 
the related services are classified as short-term employee 
benefits, which include benefits like salaries, wages, short 
term compensated absences, performance incentives, etc. 
and are recognised as expenses in the period in which 
the employee renders the related service and measured 
accordingly. Short-term employee benefits are measured 
on an undiscounted basis.
	
Post-employment benefits
	
Post-employment benefit plans are classified into defined 
benefits plans and defined contribution plans as under:
	
a)	
Gratuity:
	
	
The Group has an obligation towards gratuity, a 
defined benefit retirement plan covering eligible 
employees. The plan provides for a lump sum 
payment to vested employees at retirement, 
death while in employment or on termination of 
employment of an amount based on the respective 
employee’s salary and the tenure of employment. 
The liability in respect of gratuity is recognised in 
the books of account based on actuarial valuation 
by an independent actuary. The gratuity liability for 
certain employees of the Group is funded with Life 
Insurance Corporation of India.
	
b)	
Superannuation:
	
	
Certain employees of the Group are also participants 
in the superannuation plan (‘the Plan’), a defined 
contribution plan. Contribution made by the Group 
to the plan during the year is charged to statement 
of profit and loss.
	
c)	
Provident fund:
	
	
(i)	
The Group makes contribution to the recognised 
provident fund - “Escorts Heart Institute and 
Research Centre Employees Provident Fund 
Trust “ and “Fortis Healthcare Limited Provident 
Fund Trust” for most of its employees in India, 
which is a defined benefit plan to the extent 
that the Group has an obligation to make good 
the shortfall, if any, between the return from 
the investments of the trust and the notified 
interest rate. The Group’s obligation in this 
regard is determined by an independent actuary 
and provided for if the circumstances indicate 
that the Trust may not be able to generate 
adequate returns to cover the interest rates 
notified by the Government.
	
	
	
For other employees in India, provident fund 
is deposited with Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner. This is treated as defined 
contribution plan.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
349
	
(ii)	
Group’s contribution to the provident fund is 
charged to statement of profit and loss in the periods 
during which the related services are rendered by the 
employees.
	
	
Other long-term employee benefits:
	
	
As per the Group’s policy, eligible leaves can be 
accumulated by the employees and carried forward 
to future periods to either be utilised during the 
service, or encashed. Encashment can be made 
during service, on early retirement, on withdrawal 
of scheme, at resignation and upon death of the 
employee. Accumulated compensated absences are 
treated as other long-term employee benefits.
	
	
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense 
when, as a result of a past event, the Group has a 
present obligation that can be estimated reliably, and 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation.
	
	
Actuarial valuation
	
	
The liability in respect of all defined benefit plans and 
other long term benefits is accrued in the books of 
account on the basis of actuarial valuation carried 
out by an independent actuary using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method. The obligation is measured at 
the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
The discount rates used for determining the present 
value of obligation under defined benefit plans, is 
based on the market yields on Government securities 
as at the Balance Sheet date, having maturity periods 
approximating to the terms of related obligations.
	
	
Remeasurement gains and losses on other long term 
benefits are recognised in the Statement of profit and 
loss in the year in which they arise. Remeasurement 
gains and losses in respect of all defined benefit 
plans arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised 
in the period in which they occur, directly in other 
comprehensive 
income. 
They 
are 
recognised 
immediately in the Statement of Changes in Equity 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through OCI in the period in which they 
occur. Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments 
or curtailments are recognised immediately in profit 
or loss as past service cost. Gains or losses on the 
curtailment or settlement of any defined benefit plan 
are recognised when the curtailment or settlement 
occurs. Any differential between the plan assets (for a 
funded defined benefit plan) and the defined benefit 
obligation as per actuarial valuation is recognised as 
a liability if it is a deficit or as an asset if it is a surplus 
(to the extent of the lower of present value of any 
economic benefits available in the form of refunds 
from the plan or reduction in future contribution to 
the plan).
	
	
Past service cost is recognised as an expense in the 
statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis 
over the average period until the benefits become 
vested. To the extent that the benefits are already 
vested immediately following the introduction of, or 
changes to, a defined benefit plan, the past service 
cost is recognised immediately in the statement 
of profit and loss. Past service cost may be either 
positive (where benefits are introduced or improved) 
or negative (where existing benefits are reduced).
(r)	
 Share-based payments
	
The grant date fair value of options granted (net of 
estimated forfeiture) to employees of the Group is 
recognised as an employee benefits expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The expense is recorded for each separately vesting portion 
of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple 
awards. The increase in equity recognised in connection 
with share based payment transaction is presented as 
a separate component in equity under “share options 
outstanding account”. The amount recognised as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of stock 
options that vest. For the option awards, grant date fair 
value is determined under the option-pricing model (Black-
Scholes-Merton). Forfeitures are estimated at the time of 
grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if 
actual forfeitures materially differ from those estimates.
	
Corresponding balance of share options outstanding 
account is transferred to General Reserve upon expiry of 
grants.
(s)	
Finance costs
	
Finance costs consist of interest and other costs that an 
entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds 
including interest expense on lease liability. Finance 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
350
cost also includes exchange differences to the extent 
regarded as an adjustment to the finance costs. General 
and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable 
to the construction or production or development of a 
qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that 
asset. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a 
substantial period of time to get ready for their intended 
use or sale. All other finance costs are expensed in the 
period in which they occur.
	
Investment income earned on the temporary investment 
of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on 
qualifying assets is deducted from the finance costs eligible 
for capitalisation. Ancillary costs incurred in connection 
with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over 
the period of such borrowings.
(t)	
 Income tax
	
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised in statement of profit and loss except to 
the extent that it relates to a business combination, or 
items recognised directly in equity or in OCI. Interest and 
penalties related to income taxes, including uncertain 
tax treatments, do not meet the definition of income 
taxes, and therefore accounted for them under Ind AS 37 
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
	
Current taxes
	
Current tax comprises the best estimate of expected tax 
payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the 
year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable 
in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax 
payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax amount 
expected to be paid or received after considering uncertainty 
related to income taxes, if any. It is measured using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised 
amounts, and it is intended to realise the asset and settle 
the liability on a net basis or simultaneously.
	
Deferred taxes
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is also recognised 
in respect of carried forward tax losses and tax credits. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for:
	
•	
temporary differences arising on the initial recognition 
of assets or liabilities in a transaction that
	
	
–	
is not a business combination; and
	
	
–	
at the time of transaction (i) affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit or loss and (ii) does 
not give rise to equal taxable and deductible 
temporary differences;
	
•	
temporary differences related to investments in 
subsidiaries, associates or joint arrangements, to the 
extent that the Group is able to control the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future; and
	
•	
taxable temporary differences arising on the initial 
recognition of goodwill.
	
Deferred tax assets (DTA) include Minimum Alternate Tax 
(MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, which 
is likely to give future economic benefits in the form of 
availability of set off against future income tax liability.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, 
unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which they can be used. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date 
and recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which 
they can be used. Deferred tax is measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to be applied to the period when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date. The measurement of deferred tax 
reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the 
manner in which the Group expects, at the reporting date, 
to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and 
liabilities.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised 
amounts, and it is intended to realise the asset and settle 
the liability on a net basis or simultaneously.
(u)	 Leases
	
At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a 
contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
351
consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group 
assesses whether:
	
–	
the contract involves the use of an identified asset 
	
–	
this may be specified explicitly or implicitly and should 
be physically distinct or represent substantially all 
of the capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the 
supplier has a substantive substitution right, then the 
asset is not identified;
	
–	
the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of 
the economic benefits from use of the asset through 
the period of use; and
	
–	
the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset. 
The Group has this right when it has the decision- 
making rights that are most relevant to changing 
how and for what purpose the asset is used. In rare 
cases, where the decision about how and for what 
purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the 
Group has the right to direct the use of the asset if 
either:
	
	
•	
the Group has the right to operate the asset; or
	
	
•	
the Group designed the asset in a way that 
predetermines how and for what purpose it will 
be used
	
	
An entity shall reassess whether a contract is, or 
contains, a lease only if the terms and conditions of 
the contract are changed.
	
	
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that 
contains a lease component, the Group allocates 
the consideration in the contract to each lease 
component on the basis of their relative stand-alone 
prices. However, for the leases of land and buildings 
in which it is a lessee, the Group has elected not to 
separate non- lease components and account for the 
lease and non-lease components as a single lease 
component.
	
(i)	
As a lessee
	
	
The Group accounts for assets taken under lease 
arrangement in the following manner:
	
	
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a 
lease liability at the lease commencement date. The 
right of use asset is initially measured at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date, plus any initial direct 
costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle 
and remove the underlying asset or to restore the 
underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less 
any lease incentive received.
	
	
The right of use asset, except leasehold land obtained 
on perpetual lease, is subsequently depreciated using 
the straight-line method from the commencement 
date to the end of the lease term. The estimated 
useful lives of right-of-use are determined on the 
same basis as those of property and equipment. In 
addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced 
by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain 
remeasurements of the lease liability.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at the present 
value of the lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date, discounted using the Group’s 
incremental borrowing rate.
	
	
The Company determines its incremental borrowing 
rate by obtaining interest rates from various external 
financing sources and makes certain adjustments to 
reflect the terms of the lease and type of the asset 
leased.
	
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability comprise the fixed payments, including 
in-substance fixed payments.
	
	
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. It is remeasured when 
there is a change in future lease payments arising 
from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change 
in Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be 
payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the 
Group changes its assessment of whether it will 
exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.
	
	
When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, 
a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in 
profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-
use asset has been reduced to zero.
	
	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
	
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of use 
assets and lease liabilities for short term leases that 
have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
352
of low value assets. The Group recognises the lease 
payments associated with these leases as an expense 
on a straight- line basis over the lease term.
	
(ii)	 As a lessor
	
	
The Group accounts for assets given under lease 
arrangement in the following manner:
	
	
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and 
rewards of ownership are not transferred to the 
Group as lessee are classified as operating leases. 
Assets subject to operating leases are included in 
Property, Plant and Equipment. Rental income on 
operating lease is recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term.
	
	
Costs, including depreciation, are recognised as an 
expense in the statement of profit and loss. Initial 
direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an 
operating lease are added to the carrying amount of 
the leased assets and recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
	
	
Leases are classified as finance leases when 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
ownership transfer from the Group to the lessee. 
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are 
recorded as receivables at the Group’s net investment 
in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to 
accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic 
rate of return on the net investment outstanding in 
respect of the lease.
(v)	 Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
 Transactions and balances
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rate at 
the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at balance sheet date exchange rates are 
generally recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair value was 
determined. Translation differences on assets and 
liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of 
the fair value gain or loss. For example, translation 
differences on non-monetary assets such as equity 
investments classified as FVOCI are recognised in 
other comprehensive income (OCI).
	
(ii)	 Group companies
	
	
The results and financial position of foreign 
operations (none of which has the currency of a 
hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional 
currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
	
	
•	
Equity share capital and opening other equity 
are carried at historical cost.
	
	
•	
All assets and liabilities, both monetary and 
non-monetary, 
(excluding 
share 
capital, 
opening reserves and surplus) are translated 
using closing rates at Balance Sheet date.
	
	
•	
Profit and Loss items are translated at the 
respective quarterly average rates or the 
exchange rate that approximates the actual 
exchange rate on date of specific transaction.
	
	
•	
All resulting exchange differences are recognised 
in Other Comprehensive Income.
	
	
When a foreign operation is sold, the associated 
cumulative exchange differences are reclassified to 
profit or loss, as part of the gain or loss on sale.
	
	
The items of consolidated statement of cash flow 
are translated at the respective average rates or 
the exchange rate that approximates the actual 
exchange rate on date of specific transaction. The 
impact of changes in exchange rate on cash and 
cash equivalent held in foreign currency is included 
in effect of exchange rate changes.
(w)	  Statement of Cash flow
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby net profit before tax is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of a non-cash nature and any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments. 
The cash flows from operating, investing and financing 
activities of the Group are segregated. The Group considers 
all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash to be cash equivalents.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
353
(x)	 Operating segments
	
An operating segment is a component of the group 
that engages in business activities from which it may 
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues 
and expenses that relate to transactions with any of 
the Group’s other components, and for which discrete 
financial information is available. Operating segments 
are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (“CODM”). CODM of the Group is responsible for 
allocating resources and assessing performance of the 
operating segments and accordingly identified as the chief 
operating decision maker. Revenues, expenses, assets and 
liabilities, which are common to the enterprise as a whole 
and are not allocable to segments on a reasonable basis, 
have been treated as “unallocated revenues/ expenses/ 
assets/ liabilities”, as the case may be. The group has 
two reportable segments i.e Healthcare and Diagnostic 
business which are the Group’s strategic business units.
(y)	 Earnings per share
	
(i)	
Basic earnings per share
	
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
	
	
•	
the profit attributable to owners of the Group
	
	
•	
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the financial year, 
adjusted for bonus elements in equity shares 
issued during the year.
	
(ii)	 Diluted earnings per share
	
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
	
	
•	
the after income tax effect of interest and 
other financing costs associated with dilutive 
potential equity shares, and
	
	
•	
the weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been outstanding 
assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential 
equity shares
(z)	 Exceptional items
	
On certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an 
item of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary 
activities of the Group is such that its disclosure improves 
the understanding of the performance of the Group. Such 
income or expense is classified as an exceptional item 
and accordingly, disclosed in the consolidated financial 
statements.
3.
CRITICAL ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
requires management to make judgments, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of accounting 
policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and in any future periods affected.
	
Judgements
	
Information about judgements made in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant effects 
on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is 
included in the following notes:
	
•	
Leasing arrangement (classification) – Note 10
	
•	
Revenue Recognition (loyalty points): The Group 
determined that the loyalty points provide a material 
right that the customer would not receive without 
entering into the contract. The free services the 
customer would receive by exercising the loyalty 
points do not reflect the stand-alone selling price 
that a customer without an existing relationship 
with the Group would pay for those services. The 
customers right also accumulates as they purchase 
additional services.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
354
4.
ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES
	
Information 
about 
assumptions 
and 
estimation 
uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a 
material adjustment is included in the following notes:
	
•	
Leasing arrangement (accounting) – Note 10
	
•	
Financial instruments - Note 18
	
•	
Fair value measurement – Note 20
	
•	
Estimated impairment of financial assets and non-
financial assets – Note 6(v), 6(vi), 6(vii) and 6(x)
	
•	
Recognition and measurement of contingency: Key 
assumption about the likelihood and magnitude of 
an outflow of resources – Note 6 (xix), 13 and 14
	
•	
Measurement of ECL allowance for trade receivables 
and other assets – Note 2(j)
	
•	
Recognition of deferred tax assets: availability of 
future taxable profits against which deductible 
temporary differences and tax losses carried forward 
can be utilised – Note 6(ix)
	
•	
Assessment of useful life and residual value of 
property, plant and equipment and other intangible 
asset – Note 2(g)(iii)
	
•	
Estimation of assets and obligations relating to 
employee benefits (including actuarial assumptions) 
– Note 17
	
•	
Share-based payments – Note 16
	
•	
Revenue recognition – estimate of provision for 
loyalty points - Note 2(p)
	
•	
Acquisition of business: Fair value of the consideration 
transferred (including contingent transferred) and fair 
value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed - 
Note 2(f) and Note 36.
5.
RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. On 7 May 2025, MCA issued the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2025, which made certain amendments to Ind 
AS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates, effective from 1 April 2025. These amendments 
define currency exchangeability and include guidance 
on estimating spot exchange rates when a currency is 
not exchangeable. The Company does not expect this 
amendment to have any significant impact in its financial 
statements.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
355
6(i)(a)
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Land
(refer note 
a below)
Buildings 
Leasehold 
improvements
 Plant & 
machinery
Medical 
equipment
Furniture 
& fittings
Computers
Office 
equipment
Vehicles
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01,2023
1,83,885.02 
 1,18,494.45 
 18,435.77 
 32,679.98 
 1,45,402.88 
 8,286.65 
 8,908.09 
 4,291.41 
 2,979.80 
 5,23,364.05 
Additions
 79.37 
 11,687.82 
 2,989.89 
 6,293.74 
 38,542.32 
 1,240.29 
 3,182.51 
 675.09 
 918.55 
 65,609.58 
Acquisitions through business 
combinations
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.24 
 269.28 
 10.63 
 15.65 
 15.64 
 1.69 
 321.13 
Disposals
 (8,013.86)
 (3,090.95)
 (252.95)
 (1,999.04)
 (10,154.16)
 (640.38)
 (1,018.02)
 (387.92)
 (456.87)
 (26,014.15)
Exchange translation adjustments
 - 
 - 
 18.89 
 - 
 11.57 
 0.23 
 1.81 
 0.04 
 0.14 
 32.68 
As at March 31, 2024
1,75,950.53 
 1,27,091.32 
 21,191.60 
 36,982.92 
 1,74,071.89 
 8,897.42 
 11,090.04 
 4,594.26 
 3,443.31 
 5,63,313.30 
Additions
 9,973.90 
 24,094.38 
 1,788.04 
 4,539.55 
 48,121.94 
 833.18 
 2,111.31 
 597.95 
 668.80 
 92,729.05 
Disposals
 - 
 (2.51)
 (4,970.65)
 (1,396.79)
 (7,374.05)
 (529.99)
 (698.80)
 (271.75)
 (323.30)
 (15,567.84)
Exchange translation adjustments
 - 
 - 
 86.28 
 - 
 52.82 
 1.04 
 8.64 
 0.19 
 0.58 
 149.55 
As at March 31, 2025
1,85,924.43 
 1,51,183.19 
 18,095.27 
 40,125.68 
 2,14,872.60 
 9,201.65 
 12,511.19 
 4,920.65 
 3,789.39 
 6,40,624.05 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
As at April 01,2023
 - 
 27,702.64 
 11,048.59 
 16,453.25 
 71,804.85 
 6,055.87 
 6,125.30 
 3,184.74 
 1,805.07 
 1,44,180.31 
Charge for the year
 - 
 5,050.91 
 2,051.20 
 1,598.52 
 11,525.03 
 555.84 
 1,858.51 
 398.45 
 472.37 
 23,510.83 
Disposals
 - 
 (1,876.67)
 (242.06)
 (1,320.61)
 (8,446.09)
 (519.86)
 (979.64)
 (339.77)
 (364.12)
 (14,088.82)
Exchange translation adjustments
 - 
 - 
 18.83 
 - 
 11.28 
 0.23 
 1.50 
 0.02 
 0.14 
 32.00 
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 30,876.88 
 12,876.56 
 16,731.16 
 74,895.07 
 6,092.08 
 7,005.67 
 3,243.44 
 1,913.47 
 1,53,634.32 
Charge for the year
 - 
 5,463.37 
 1,993.42 
 2,081.63 
 14,055.99 
 559.45 
 2,335.59 
 446.01 
 534.06 
 27,469.52 
Disposals
 - 
 (1.49)
 (4,790.36)
 (986.75)
 (6,783.93)
 (496.34)
 (685.47)
 (256.61)
 (229.71)
 (14,230.66)
Impairment (refer note 22(e) and (f))
 - 
 1,700.06 
 - 
 1,246.18 
 793.70 
 151.50 
 38.47 
 7.93 
 - 
 3,937.84 
Exchange translation adjustments
 - 
 - 
 86.23 
 - 
 52.06 
 1.04 
 7.67 
 0.13 
 0.58 
 147.71 
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 38,038.82 
 10,165.85 
 19,072.22 
 83,012.89 
 6,307.73 
 8,701.94 
 3,440.90 
 2,218.40 
 1,70,958.73 
Carrying value (As at March 31, 2024)
1,75,950.53 
 96,214.44 
 8,315.04 
 20,251.76 
 99,176.84 
 2,805.35 
 4,084.36 
 1,350.82 
 1,529.84 
 4,09,678.98 
Carrying value (As at March 31, 2025)
1,85,924.43 
 1,13,144.37 
 7,929.42 
 21,053.45 
 1,31,859.71 
 2,893.92 
 3,809.25 
 1,479.75 
 1,570.99 
 4,69,665.32 
	
	
a.	
The original title deeds for certain freehold land included in above are in the possession of banks against outstanding loans.
	
	
b.	
Above block includes certain assets leased pursuant to operating lease agreement [refer note 10(b)].
	
	
c.	
Certain assets included under Property, plant and equipment, are held as pledge against loans taken by the Group [refer note 11].
	
	
d.	
The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment during the current and previous financial year.
	
	
e.	
The Group does not have any benami property or there are no proceeding that has been initiated or are pending against the Group for holding any 
benami property.
	
	
f.	
During the previous year, the Company has acquired a multi-specialty hospital situated in Manesar, Gurugram, Haryana (Medeor Hospital) for an overall 
purchase consideration of ` 22,500 Lakhs (excluding stamp duty and other charges). The facility has commenced the hospital busines in this year.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
356
6(i)(b)
CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 54,044.60 
 22,773.82 
Additions during the year*
 79,075.83 
 96,880.36 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment*
 (92,729.05)
 (65,609.58)
Closing balance (net of provision for impairment ` 2,569.92 Lakhs 
(March 31, 2024 ` 2,569.92 Lakhs)) {Refer note  27 (C) (ii)}
 40,391.38 
 54,044.60 
	
	
* The Group accounts for all capitalisation of property, plant and equipment through capital work in progress and 
therefore the movement in capital work in progress is the difference between closing and opening balance of capital work 
in progress as adjusted for additions to property, plant and equipment.
	
	
(a) 	 Ageing Schedule for Capital-work-in progress is as follows:
	
	
March 31, 2025
	
(` in Lakhs)
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 23,226.24 
 9,715.48 
 602.25 
 6,847.41 
 40,391.38 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(b) 	 Capital-work-in progress completion schedule, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost 
compared to its original plan.
March 31, 2025	
	
	
(` in Lakhs)
CWIP
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Amritsar hospital project
 - 
 - 
 122.06 
 - 
Manesar hospital project
 3,928.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Bannerghatta Road hospital project
 6,847.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Fortis Gurugram project
 5,471.39 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Civil work at  FHKI Anandpur
 228.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(a) 	 Ageing Schedule for Capital-work-in progress is as follows:
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 46,472.45 
 657.37 
 91.29 
 6,823.50 
 54,044.60 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 46,472.45 
 657.37 
 91.29 
 6,823.50 
 54,044.60 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
357
(b) 	 Capital-work-in progress completion schedule, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost 
compared to its original plan.
March 31, 2024	
	
	
(` in Lakhs)
CWIP
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Amritsar hospital project
 - 
 122.06 
 - 
 - 
Bannerghatta Road hospital project
 6,697.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
AIR handling unit project at Noida
 77.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Civil work for auditorium project at 
Mulund
 57.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Civil work at  FHKI Anandpur
 45.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6(ii)
GOODWILL
Goodwill acquired in business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to 
benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
As at April 
01, 2024
Addition 
Impairment
As at 
March 31, 
2025
As at April 
01, 2023
Addition 
Impairment
As at March 
31, 2024
Cost 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Gurgaon 
hospital)
 13,379.62 
 - 
 - 
 13,379.62 
 13,379.62 
 - 
 - 
 13,379.62 
Fortis Healthcare Limited (Shalimar Bagh 
Hospital)
 11,621.00 
 - 
 - 
 11,621.00 
 11,621.00 
 - 
 - 
 11,621.00 
Escorts Heart Institute and Research 
Center Limited
 24,782.69 
 - 
 - 
 24,782.69 
 24,782.69 
 - 
 - 
 24,782.69 
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited
 4,984.38 
 - 
 - 
 4,984.38 
 4,984.38 
 - 
 - 
 4,984.38 
Fortis Malar Hospital Limited (refer note 
35(b))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,044.12 
 - 
 2,044.12 
 - 
Fortis Hospitals limited (Banergatta Road 
Hospital)
 55,602.29 
 - 
 - 
 55,602.29 
 55,602.29 
 - 
 - 
 55,602.29 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Cunningham 
Road Hospital)
 2,704.57 
 - 
 - 
 2,704.57 
 2,704.57 
 - 
 - 
 2,704.57 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Mulund 
Hospital)
 50,082.28 
 - 
 - 
 50,082.28 
 50,082.28 
 - 
 - 
 50,082.28 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Kalyan Hospital)
 7,085.55 
 - 
 - 
 7,085.55 
 7,085.55 
 - 
 - 
 7,085.55 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Fortis Heart and 
Kidney Institute)
 1,984.82 
 - 
 - 
 1,984.82 
 1,984.82 
 - 
 - 
 1,984.82 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Anandpur 
Hospital)
 25,668.91 
 - 
 - 
 25,668.91 
 25,668.91 
 - 
 - 
 25,668.91 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Jaipur Hospital)
 404.32 
 - 
 - 
 404.32 
 404.32 
 - 
 - 
 404.32 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Faridabad 
Hospital)
 6,053.13 
 - 
 - 
 6,053.13 
 6,053.13 
 - 
 - 
 6,053.13 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Noida Hospital)
 33,024.49 
 - 
 - 
 33,024.49 
 33,024.49 
 - 
 - 
 33,024.49 
Fortis Hospitals Limited (Amritsar 
Hospital)
 10,675.20 
 - 
 - 
 10,675.20 
 10,675.20 
 - 
 - 
 10,675.20 
6(i)(b)
CAPITAL WORK-IN-PROGRESS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
358
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
As at April 
01, 2024
Addition 
Impairment
As at 
March 31, 
2025
As at April 
01, 2023
Addition 
Impairment
As at March 
31, 2024
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality 
Hospitals Limited (Mohali Hospital)
 21,862.24 
 - 
 - 
 21,862.24 
 21,862.24 
 - 
 - 
 21,862.24 
Fortis Health Management Limited 
(Nagarbavi Hospital)
 2,979.40 
 - 
 - 
 2,979.40 
 2,979.40 
 - 
 - 
 2,979.40 
International Hospital Limited (Rajaji 
Nagar Hospital)
 2,564.44 
 - 
 - 
 2,564.44 
 2,564.44 
 - 
 - 
 2,564.44 
Fortis Healthcare International Limited
 17.33 
 - 
 - 
 17.33 
 17.33 
 - 
 - 
 17.33 
Hospital business - Total (A)
 2,75,476.66 
 - 
 -  2,75,476.66  2,77,520.78 
 - 
 2,044.12 
 2,75,476.66 
Diagnostic business
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (formerly 
SRL Limited) and its subsidiaries (refer 
note 36)
 1,43,939.34 
 - 
 -  1,43,939.34  1,36,578.07 
 7,361.27 
 - 
 1,43,939.34 
Diagnostic business - Total (B)
 1,43,939.34 
 - 
 -  1,43,939.34  1,36,578.07 
 7,361.27 
 - 
 1,43,939.34 
Grand Total (A+B)
 4,19,416.00 
 - 
 -  4,19,416.00  4,14,098.85 
 7,361.27 
 2,044.12 
 4,19,416.00 
The Group’s goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite life) are tested for impairment annually at the year-end or more 
frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Group made an assessment of recoverable amount of the CGUs based on value-in-use calculations which uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management except Fortis Healthcare International Limited, where the valuation 
has been determined based on the fair value of net assets. The fair value measurements were categorised as a Level 3 fair value based 
on the inputs in the valuation technique used which involve a combination of quoted market price of further investment made and 
bank balance held
Cash flow projections were developed covering seven year period as at March 31, 2025 which reflects a more appropriate indication/
trend of future track of business of the Group. Cash flows beyond the seven year period were extrapolated using estimate rates 
stated below.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to 
selling prices and direct costs during the year. Management estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that reflect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. 
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
Key assumption used for value in use calculation are as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Compound average net sales growth rate (p.a.)
4% - 10%
4% - 12%
Growth rate used for extrapolation of cash flow projections (p.a.)
4.0%
4.0%
Discount rate (Pre tax)
14% - 18%
21% - 25%
Discount rate (Post tax)
11% - 13%
14% - 16%
Management believes that any reasonable possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to 
exceed its recoverable amount.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Discount rates - Management estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the risks 
specific to the CGU, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not 
been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and 
its operating segments and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
Growth rates - The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Management determines the budgeted growth rates 
based on past performance and its expectations of market development. The weighted average growth rates used were consistent 
with industry reports. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
6(ii)
GOODWILL (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
359
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Technical 
know how 
fees
User license 
agreement
License 
fee
Software
Trademark 
and Non 
compete
Trademark 
(indefinite 
useful life)
Customer 
relationships
Total
Gross Carrying value
As at April 01, 2023
 974.88 
 420.00 
 1,256.75 
 18,686.73 
 21,813.91 
 21,500.00 
 5,733.06 
 70,385.33 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 153.57 
 838.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 992.04 
Acquisitions through business 
combinations
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.77 
 900.30 
 - 
 - 
 903.07 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (629.32)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (629.32)
As at March 31,2024
 974.88 
 420.00 
 1,410.32 
 18,898.65 
 22,714.21 
 21,500.00 
 5,733.06 
 71,651.12 
Additions
-
-
 30.88 
 1,065.85 
-
-
-
 1,096.73 
Disposals
-
-
 (34.83)
 (139.17)
-
-
-
 (174.00)
As at March 31,2025
 974.88 
 420.00 
 1,406.37 
 19,825.33 
 22,714.21 
 21,500.00 
 5,733.06 
 72,573.85 
Amortisation
As at April 01, 2023
 974.88 
 420.00 
 1,143.10 
 16,089.85 
 7,409.52 
 - 
 764.40 
 26,801.75 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 39.36 
 1,038.79 
 2,825.82 
 - 
 382.20 
 4,286.17 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (629.32)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (629.32)
As at March 31,2024
 974.88 
 420.00 
 1,182.46 
 16,499.32 
 10,235.34 
 - 
 1,146.60 
 30,458.60 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 48.94 
 1,099.63 
 2,597.76 
 - 
 382.20 
 4,128.53 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 (34.83)
 (125.15)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (159.98)
As at March 31,2025
 974.88 
 420.00 
 1,196.57 
 17,473.80 
 12,833.10 
 - 
 1,528.80 
 34,427.15 
Carrying value as at March 31,2024
 - 
 - 
 227.86 
 2,399.33 
 12,478.87 
 21,500.00 
 4,586.46 
 41,192.52 
Carrying value as at March 31,2025
 - 
 - 
 209.80 
 2,351.53 
 9,881.11 
 21,500.00 
 4,204.26 
 38,146.70 
6(iii)(b)
INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 152.45 
 9.66 
Additions during the year*
 1,206.83 
 1,134.83 
Transfer to other intangible assets*
 (1,096.73)
 (992.04)
Closing balance 
 262.55 
 152.45 
	
	
*The Group accounts for all capitalisation of intangible assets through intangible assets under development and therefore 
the movement in intangible assets under development is the difference between closing and opening balance of intangible 
assets under development as adjusted for additions to intangible assets.
	
	
(a) 	 Ageing Schedule for Intangible assets under development:	 	
	
(` in Lakhs)
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount in Intangible assets under development for a 
period of March 31, 2025
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 204.72 
 57.83 
 - 
 - 
 262.55 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 204.72 
 57.83 
 - 
 - 
 262.55 
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount in Intangible assets under development for a 
period of March 31, 2024
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 152.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 152.45 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 152.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 152.45 
	
	
(b) 	 There is no project whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at March 
31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
6(iii)(a)
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
360
6(iv)(a) INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non current
A. 	 Quoted investments (fully paid)
(a)	 Investments in equity instruments
	
Investment in associate companies
	
(i) 	
Lanka Hospitals Corporate PLC, Srilanka
	
	
64,120,915 (64,120,915 as at March 31, 2024) Equity 
Shares of Lankan Rupees (LKR) 62 each (including goodwill 
of ` 16,102.33 Lakhs)
 19,762.82 
 19,762.82 
	
	
Add: Share in  pre acquisition profits upto the date of 
acquisition
 568.70 
 568.70 
	
	
Add: Share in  post acquisition profits (net of dividend)
 8,986.45 
 8,449.61 
	
	
Add: Share in profits for the year
 1,152.79 
 963.98 
	
	
Less: Dividend received during the year
 - 
 (427.14)
	
	
Less: Impairment
 (9,676.24)
 (2,241.69)
	
	
Add: Exchange translation adjustments
 (6,827.40)
 (7,026.69)
 13,967.12 
 20,049.59 
Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments (A)
 13,967.12 
 20,049.59 
B.
Unquoted Investments (fully paid)
(a)	 Investments in equity instruments
	
Investment in associate companies
	
(i) 	
RHT Health Trust, Singapore (refer note 38)
	
	
225,747,944 (225,747,944 as at March 31, 2024) units of 
SGD 0.90 each, fully paid up
 60,853.75 
 60,853.75 
	
	
Less: Share in post acquisition losses (net of dividend)
 (54,965.35)
 (54,963.58)
	
	
Less: Share in loss for the year
 - 
 (1.77)
	
	
Less: Other adjustments
 (3,577.41)
 (3,577.41)
	
	
Add: Exchange translation adjustments
 369.66 
 354.20 
 2,680.65 
 2,665.19 
Investment in joint ventures
(i) 	 Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private Limited
	
240,000 (240,000 as at March 31, 2024) equity shares of 
Nepalese Rupees 100 each fully paid-up	
 150.00 
 150.00 
	
Add: Share in post acquisition profits
 104.93 
 174.60 
	
Add: Share in loss for the year
 (0.50)
 (11.17)
	
Add: Share of reserves
 (4.61)
 (4.61)
	
Less: Dividend received during the year
 - 
 (58.50)
 249.82 
 250.32 
(ii) 	 Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
	
[4,060,637 (4,060,637 as at March 31, 2024) equity shares of ` 
10 each, fully paid up]
622.85
622.85
	
Less: Impairment
 (622.85)
 (622.85)
 - 
 - 
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments (i)
 2,930.47 
 2,915.51 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
361
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(b) 	 Investments in 0.01% Optionally Convertible Redeemable 
Preference Shares
	
Investment in joint venture
	
(i) 	
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
	
	
[43,333,333 (43,333,333 as at March 31, 2024) preference 
shares of ` 3 each fully paid-up]	
 1,300.00 
 1,300.00 
	
	
Less: Impairment
 (1,300.00)
 (1,300.00)
 - 
 - 
	
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investment in 
preference shares (b)
 - 
 - 
	
Unquoted investment in joint venture (a+b)
 2,930.47 
 2,915.51 
	
Investments in associates/joint venture - Total (A+B)
 16,897.59 
 22,965.10 
	
Aggregate carrying value of investment in associates and joint 
ventures
 16,897.59 
 22,965.10 
	
Gross investments in associates/joint ventures (accounted under 
equity method)
 28,496.68 
 27,129.64 
	
Impairment of investment in associate and joint venture
 11,599.09 
 4,164.54 
	
	
NOTES:
	
	
A	
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES
	
	
A.1	 Break-up of investment in associates (carrying amount determined using the equity method of accounting)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(i)
Aggregate book value of quoted investments 
 13,967.12 
 20,049.59 
(ii)
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 13,967.12 
 20,646.27 
(iii)
Aggregate gross value of unquoted investments 
 2,680.65 
 2,665.19 
(iv)
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments in 
associates 
 9,676.24 
 2,241.69 
	
	
	
The following table analyses, in aggregate the carrying amounts and share of profits and OCI of immaterial 
associates :
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Carrying amount of interest in associates
 16,647.77 
 22,714.78 
(b)
Share of  :
Group share of (loss)/ profit 
 1,152.79 
 962.21 
Other comprehensive income for the year
 214.74 
 580.44 
6(iv)(a) INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
362
	
	
B	
INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES	
	
	
B.1	 Break-up of investment in joint ventures (carrying amount determined using the equity method of 
accounting)
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(i)
Aggregate book value of quoted investments 
 - 
 - 
(ii)
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments 
 249.82 
 250.32 
(iv)
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments in Joint 
Ventures
 1,922.85 
 1,922.85 
	
	
B.2	 Unrecognised share of loss of joint venture (Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited)
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2025 
 (` in Lakhs) 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2024 
 (` in Lakhs) 
The unrecognised share of loss of Joint Venture for the year
 73.94 
 97.20 
Cumulative share of unrecognised loss of Joint Venture
 1,763.98 
 1,690.04 
	
	
	
The following table analyses, in aggregate the carrying amounts and share of profits and OCI of immaterial joint 
ventures :
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Carrying amount of interest in joint ventures
 249.82 
 250.32 
(b)
Share of  :
Group share of (loss)/ profit 
 (0.50)
 (11.17)
Other comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
6(iv)(b) INVESTMENTS
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current
Unquoted investment 
(i)
Investments in equity instruments - at amortised cost*
Renew Wind Energy AP Private Limited
 12.30 
 12.30 
74,500 (74,500 as at March 31, 2024) equity shares of ` 10 each
(ii)
Investments in equity instruments - at amortised cost #
Clover Energy Private Limited
0.01
 0.01 
100 (100 as at March 31, 2024) of ` 10 each fully paid equity shares 
Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments
 12.31 
 12.31 
Aggregate gross value of unquoted investments
 12.31 
 12.31 
	
	
*IHL has entered into an energy purchase agreement with Renew Wind Energy AP Private Limited (the “issuer”). As per 
terms of the agreement, it needs to keep the money invested in the equity shares of issuer till the period electricity would be 
purchased from the issuer. The shares would be redeemed at the time of termination of the contract upon mutual consent by 
the parties. It can’t sell these shares in active market. Given these facts, it has accounted these instruments at cost.
6(iv)(a) INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
363
	
	
#FHML had entered in to an energy purchase agreement with Clover Energy Private Limited (“the issuer”). As per terms 
of the agreement, it needs to keep the money invested in the equity shares of issuer till the period electricity would be 
purchased from the issuer. The shares would be redeemed at the time of termination of the contract upon mutual consent 
by the parties. It cannot sell these shares in active market. Given these facts, it has accounted these instruments at cost.
6(ix)
DEFERRED TAX
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Deferred tax assets (net) (A)
 31,454.82 
 31,741.41 
(b) 	 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (B)
 (43,983.03)
 (42,928.10)
Deferred tax (A-B)
 (12,528.21)
 (11,186.69)
 (12,528.21)
 (11,186.69)
	
	
The following is the analysis of the movement in deferred tax assets/(liabilities) presented in financial statements:-
(` in Lakhs)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) in 
relation to:
As at
April 01, 
2024 
 Credit/
(Charge) 
to Profit 
or loss 
Derecognition 
on disposal
 Business 
combination 
 Credit/
(Charge) Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
 Creation/
(Utilisation) 
of MAT 
credit 
As at
March 31, 
2025
Deferred tax liabilities
(a)
Property, plant and equipment
(36,766.94)
 (3,776.18)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (40,543.12)
(b)
Intangible assets
(11,734.48)
 184.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - (11,549.64)
(c)
Others
 (663.88)
 (14.62)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (678.50)
(d)
Right-of-use assets
 (4,066.04)
 (2,060.13)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (6,126.17)
(e)
Brand
 (5,411.11)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5,411.11)
(f)
Customer relationships
 (1,154.30)
 96.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,058.10)
(59,796.75)
 (5,569.87)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - (65,366.64)
Deferred tax assets in relation to:
(a)
Provision for contingency
 421.59 
 (322.53)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 99.06 
(b)
Allowances for doubtful advances
 3,044.28 
 (636.71)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,407.57 
(c)
Allowance for expected credit loss 
 5,559.22 
 (636.50)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,922.72 
(d)
Defined benefit obligation
 4,501.22 
 (146.78)
 - 
 - 
 200.82 
 - 
 4,555.25 
(e)
Unabsorbed losses and 
depreciation
 28,405.30 
 4,318.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32,723.67 
(f)
Others
 1,732.94 
 (707.19)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,025.75 
(g)
Lease liabilities
 4,573.35 
 2,118.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,692.14 
(h)
MSME Principle disallowance
 372.16 
 40.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 412.25 
 48,610.06 
 4,027.53 
 - 
 - 
 200.82 
 - 
 52,838.41 
Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
(11,186.69)
 (1,542.34)
 - 
 - 
 200.82 
 - (12,528.23)
6(iv)(b) INVESTMENTS (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
364
(` in Lakhs)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) in 
relation to:
As at
April 01, 
2023 
 Credit/
(Charge) 
to Profit 
or loss 
Derecognition 
on disposal
Business 
combination
(refer note 
36 (a) to 
36(d)) 
 Credit/
(Charge) Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
 Creation/
(Utilisation) 
of MAT 
credit 
As at
March 31, 
2024
Deferred tax liabilities
(a)
Property, plant and equipment
(36,025.05)
 (741.89)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - (36,766.94)
(b)
Intangible assets
(11,590.35)
 (144.13)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - (11,734.48)
(c)
Others
 (781.47)
 117.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (663.88)
(d)
Right-of-use assets
 (5,054.15)
 (1,594.08)
 2,778.10 
 (195.91)
 - 
 - 
 (4,066.04)
(e)
Brand
 (5,411.11)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5,411.11)
(f)
Customer relationships
 (1,250.50)
 96.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,154.30)
(g)
Trademark
 (62.59)
 62.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(60,175.22)
 (2,203.72)
 2,778.10 
 (195.91)
 - 
 - (59,796.75)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) in relation to:
(a)
Provision for contingency
 431.43 
 (9.84)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 421.59 
(b)
Allowances for doubtful advances
 3,103.55 
 (59.27)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,044.28 
(c)
Allowance for expected credit loss 
 6,015.90 
 (456.68)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,559.22 
(d)
Defined benefit obligation
 4,260.17 
 189.03 
 - 
 - 
 52.02 
 - 
 4,501.22 
(e)
Unabsorbed losses and 
depreciation
 30,080.40 
 (1,675.10)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28,405.30 
(f)
MAT credit entitlement
 2,312.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,312.30)
 - 
(g)
Other
 1,927.49 
 (194.55)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,732.94 
(h)
Lease liabilities
5,827.99 
 1,757.80 
 (3,208.35)
 195.91 
 - 
 - 
 4,573.35 
(i) 	
MSME Principle disallowance
 - 
 372.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 372.16 
 53,959.23 
 (76.45)
 (3,208.35)
 195.91 
 52.02 
 (2,312.30)
 48,610.06 
Less: Classified as held for sale
 (430.25)
 - 
 430.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax asset (Net)
 (6,646.24)
 (2,280.17)
 - 
 - 
 52.02 
 (2,312.30)
(11,186.69)
	
	
DTA has not been recognised on*
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Advances to vendors
 4,743.47 
 4,743.47 
Inter-corporate deposits (refer note 6(vi))
 40,243.00 
 40,243.00 
Interest accrued on inter-corporate deposits
 4,259.62 
 4,259.62 
Loans and advances
 3,359.71 
 3,359.71 
Interest accrued on loan
 168.33 
 168.33 
 52,774.13 
 52,774.13 
	
	
* In addition to the above temporary differences, DTA has not been recognised on losses and unabsorbed depreciation as 
stated below. Further, in case of certain subsidiaries, DTA has been recognised only to the extent it is considered probable 
that future taxable profits will be available.
6(ix)
DEFERRED TAX (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
365
	
	
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
	
	
At March 31, 2025, there was a deferred tax liability of ` 87,991.05 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 ` 110,630 Lakhs) in respect 
of temporary differences of ` 349,614.80 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 ` 316,592 Lakhs) related to undistributed earnings of 
subsidiaries. However, this liability was not recognised because the group controls the dividend policy of its subsidiaries 
i.e., the group controls the timing of reversal of the related taxable temporary differences and management is satisfied 
that they will not reverse in the near future. Additionally, the holding company intends to distributes an amount equal to 
or higher than the dividend received/receivable from its subsidiaries, this will create a zero-tax incidence at the group level 
basis provisions of Section 80M of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Income tax
Recognised in Statement of Profit or loss
Current tax
Current income tax charge for the year
 18,223.93 
 16,682.25 
 18,223.93 
 16,682.25 
Deferred tax credit
Deferred tax (charge)/credit for the year
 1,542.34 
 4,592.47 
 1,542.34 
 4,592.47 
 19,766.27 
 21,274.72 
Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax charge
Tax related to item that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit and loss
 200.82 
 52.02 
Income tax charge recognised to other comprehensive income
 200.82 
 52.02 
The income-tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the 
accounting profit as follows:
Profit before tax from continuing operations
 1,00,704.73 
 85,796.63 
Income-tax rate (%)*
 25.17 
 34.94 
Income tax rate calculated
 25,345.37 
 29,980.77 
Effect of profit of equity accounted investee not considered in determining 
taxable profit
 (290.01)
 (332.33)
Income chargeable at lower tax rate
 (864.50)
 (5,409.26)
Effect of expenses not considered in determining taxable profits
 544.40 
 897.55 
Effect of tax on eliminiation of inter company dividend income
 1,800.44 
 - 
Effect of tax on eliminiation of impairment loss on inter company transaction
 (475.56)
 - 
Effect of change in income tax rate from 34.944% to 25.168%
 17,586.44 
 - 
Utilisation of deferred tax asset not recognised earlier based on the projected 
future taxable profits
 (11,923.47)
 (3,551.37)
Deferred tax asset not recognised based on the projected future taxable 
profits
 1,756.01 
 - 
6(ix)
DEFERRED TAX (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
366
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Creation of deferred tax asset on previously unrecognised temporary 
difference and losses
 (15,583.98)
 - 
Recognition/(reversal) of impairment on investment
 1,871.13 
 (310.64)
Income-tax expense reported in the Consolidated Statement of profit 
and loss
 19,766.27 
 21,274.72 
	
	
*During the current year, the Company has opted for taxation under section 115BAA of the Income Tax Act, 1961. It has 
accordingly applied tax rate as applicable under the provision of section 115BAA of the Act in the financial statement for 
the period ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
No deferred tax asset has been recognised on below:
(` in Lakhs)
 As on March 31, 2025 
 As on March 31, 2024 
 Gross Amount 
Tax effect
 Gross Amount 
 Tax effect
Expiry in assessment year
Unabsorbed depreciation
No expiry
 5,456.26 
 1,543.45 
 25,140.03 
 8,289.06 
 
Unused long term and short term capital 
loss
2026-27
 1,026.31 
 149.04 
 1,026.31 
 239.09 
2027-28
 944.52 
 131.38 
 944.52 
 220.04 
2028-29
 129.12 
 34.85 
 129.12 
 27.72 
2030-31
 8,686.65 
 1,243.42 
 8,686.65 
 2,023.64 
2031-32
 0.12 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
2032-33
 4,565.14 
 608.16 
 5,899.22 
 1,286.08 
2033-34
 220.80 
 31.57 
 - 
 - 
 15,572.66 
 2,198.44 
 16,685.82 
 3,796.57 
Business loss
2025-26
 382.61 
 106.44 
 389.84 
 108.45 
2026-27
 1,092.10 
 303.05 
 1,109.35 
 309.06 
2027-28
 3,604.80 
 1,002.24 
 27,216.96 
 9,128.65 
2028-29
 5,436.84 
 1,496.53 
 36,405.86 
 12,381.66 
2029-30
 6,270.44 
 1,737.09 
 12,648.41 
 3,996.01 
2030-31
 4,765.49 
 1,324.11 
 5,152.78 
 1,454.74 
2031-32
 4,420.39 
 1,226.99 
 5,456.26 
 1,507.76 
2032-33
 5,377.62 
 1,536.58 
 8,273.07 
 2,391.77 
2033-34
 6,046.80 
 1,804.94 
 - 
 - 
 37,397.09 
 10,537.97 
 96,652.53 
 31,278.10 
6(ix)
DEFERRED TAX (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
367
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Minimum Alternate Tax
2027-28
 7,414.11 
 7,414.11 
 7,414.11 
 7,414.11 
6(v)
TRADE RECEIVABLES*
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current
Unsecured, unless stated otherwise
(a) 	 Considered good
	
— From Others
	
	
Billed
 81,417.46 
 69,160.73 
	
	
Unbilled
 7,303.75 
 7,202.04 
	
— From related parties [refer note 9]
 1,230.12 
 970.69 
(b) 	 Credit impaired
	
— From Others
 9,280.43 
 7,064.29 
	
— From Related Parties
 - 
 - 
	
	
Less: Loss allowance
 (20,782.94)
 (21,614.81)
 78,448.82 
 62,782.94 
Break-up of security details
(a) Trade receivables considered good - Unsecured
 89,951.33 
 77,333.46 
(b) Credit impaired - Unsecured
 9,280.43 
 7,064.29 
Less: Loss allowance
 (20,782.94)
 (21,614.81)
Total
 78,448.82 
 62,782.94 
	
	
* Trade receivables includes receivables of certain entities hypothecated against borrowing (refer note 11).
	
	
Notes:
	
	
Trade receivables are unsecured and are derived from revenue earned from providing healthcare, diagnostic and other 
ancillary services. No interest is charged on the outstanding balance, regardless of the age of the balance. In accordance 
with Ind AS 109, the Company applies Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of impairment 
loss towards expected risk of delays and default in collection. The Group has used a practical expedient by computing the 
expected credit loss allowance based on a provision matrix. Management makes specific provision in cases where there are 
known specific risks of customer default in making the payments. The provision matrix takes into account historical credit 
loss experience and adjusted for forward- looking information. The expected credit loss allowance is based on the ageing 
of the days the receivables are due and the rates as given in the provision matrix. The provision matrix at the end of the 
reporting period is as follows:
6(ix)
DEFERRED TAX (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
368
Expected Credit Allowance %
Ageing
0 - 1 year
0%-37%
0%-37%
1 - 2 year
1%-57%
1%-55%
2 - 3 year
6% - 84%
6% - 81%
More than 3 years
100%
100%
	
	
The movement in Expected Credit Loss during the year is as follows :
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Balance at the beginning of the year
 21,614.81 
 23,517.83 
Creation of the allowance for expected credit loss
 6,180.45 
 3,962.13 
Utilisation of the allowances for expected credit loss (written off)
 (7,012.32)
 (5,865.15)
Balance at the end of the year
 20,782.94 
 21,614.81 
	
	
The Group does not require collateral in respect of trade receivables. The Group does not have trade receivables for which 
no allowance is recognised because of collateral.
	
	
Trade Receivables ageing schedule
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 
3 years
(i) 	
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – 
considered good
 57,804.94  10,842.99 
 4,448.44 
 3,486.86 
 1,132.80 
 4,931.55 
 82,647.58 
(ii) 	 Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 0.06 
 99.15 
 82.13 
 531.67 
 5,262.61 
 5,975.62 
(iii) 	 Disputed Trade 
Receivables – 
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) 	 Disputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 0.94 
 133.64 
 464.08 
 1,153.61 
 92.39 
 1,460.16 
 3,304.82 
 57,805.88  10,976.69 
 5,011.67 
 4,722.60 
 1,756.86  11,654.32 
 91,928.02 
Less: Loss allowance
 (20,782.94)
 71,145.08 
Trade receivables - 
unbilled
 7,303.75 
 78,448.82 
6(v)
TRADE RECEIVABLES* (Contd.J)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
369
As at March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 
3 years
(i) 	
Undisputed Trade 
receivables – 
considered good
 38,881.07  11,441.03 
 6,685.87 
 6,045.87 
 2,080.72 
 4,996.86 
 70,131.42 
(ii) 	 Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 46.07 
 718.49 
 1,018.73 
 319.10 
 222.86 
 3,484.17 
 5,809.42 
(iii)	 Disputed Trade 
Receivables – 
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) 	 Disputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 0.06 
 0.16 
 19.71 
 62.24 
 62.28 
 1,110.42 
 1,254.87 
 38,927.20  12,159.68 
 7,724.31 
 6,427.21 
 2,365.85 
 9,591.46 
 77,195.71 
Less: Loss allowance
 (21,614.81)
 55,580.90 
Trade receivables - 
unbilled
 7,202.04 
 62,782.94 
6(vi)
LOANS
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current - at amortised cost
Unsecured, Considered good
(a) 	 Loans to employees
 229.06 
 148.27 
Total (A)
 229.06 
 148.27 
Credit impaired
(a) 	 Loans to body corporates and others*
 303.40 
 303.40 
Total (B)
 303.40 
 303.40 
Less: Loss allowance
 (303.40)
 (303.40)
Total (C)
 (303.40)
 (303.40)
Total (A+B+C)
 229.06 
 148.27 
Current - at amortised cost
Unsecured, Considered good
(a) Loans to body corporates and others
 175.47 
 158.34 
Total (A)
 175.47 
 158.34 
6(v)
TRADE RECEIVABLES* (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
370
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Credit impaired
(a) 	 Inter-corporate deposits [refer note 27 (C) (i)]*
 40,243.00 
 40,243.00 
(b) 	 Loans to body corporates and others*
 2,440.21 
 2,571.76 
Total (B)
 42,683.21 
 42,814.76 
Less: Loss allowance
 (42,683.21)
 (42,814.76)
Total (C)
 (42,683.21)
 (42,814.76)
Total (A+B+C)
 175.47 
 158.34 
	
	
*This represents loans given to body corporates and inter-corporate deposits which have been fully provided for in earlier 
years.
6(vii)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (UNSECURED)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-Current
Considered good
(a)
Deposit accounts with banks (refer note 1 below)
 312.13 
 279.75 
(b)
Security deposits
 5,206.04 
 4,899.14 
(c)
Interest accrued on loans and bank deposits
 35.40 
 37.86 
(d)
Derivative assets
 - 
 60.81 
(e)
Advances others - recoverable in cash
 87.02 
 62.49 
Total (A)
 5,640.59 
 5,340.05 
Credit impaired
(a)
Interest accrued on loan to Joint venture
 - 
 88.33 
(b)
Security deposits [refer note 27 (C) (ii)]
 398.95 
 407.60 
Total (B)
 398.95 
 495.93 
Less: Loss allowance
 (398.95)
 (495.93)
Total (C)
 (398.95)
 (495.93)
Total (A+B+C)
 5,640.59 
 5,340.05 
Current
Considered good
(a)
Interest accrued on loans and bank deposits
 91.99 
 71.51 
(b)
Security deposits
 659.08 
 752.80 
(c)
Earnest money deposit
 5.52 
 5.52 
(d)
Deposits with maturity of less than 12 months from the reporting date
 - 
 218.45 
(e)
Advance recoverable
 150.15 
 1,807.96 
(f)
Derivative assets
 0.42 
 62.82 
6(vi)
LOANS (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
371
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(g)
Consideration receivable in relation to sale of business (refer note 35(b))
 - 
 669.42 
(h)
Government grant receivables
 172.86 
 174.57 
Total (A)
 1,080.02 
 3,763.05 
Credit impaired
(a)
Full and final settlement recoverable from employees
 180.48 
 466.44 
(b)
Security deposits [refer note 27 (C) (ii)]
 581.41 
 581.41 
(c)
Interest accrued on inter-corporate deposits [refer note 27 (C) (i)]
 4,259.62 
 4,259.62 
(d)
Advance others [refer note 27 (C) (ii)]
 1,913.34 
 1,913.34 
(e)
Amount recoverable for salary & reimbursement of expenses [refer note 
27 (C) (vi)]
 2,002.39 
 2,002.39 
(f)
Other recoverables
 1,016.49 
 747.26 
Total (B)
 9,953.73 
 9,970.46 
Less: Loss allowance
 (9,953.73)
 (9,970.46)
Total (C)
 (9,953.73)
 (9,970.46)
Total (A+B+C)
 1,080.02 
 3,763.05 
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1.	
Including fixed deposits under lien with bank which is restricted from being utilised for more than 12 months from 
the Balance Sheet date.
6(viii)
TAX ASSETS & LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Non-current tax assets
Advance income-tax*
 69,313.53 
 77,150.94 
 69,313.53 
 77,150.94 
	
	
* Net of provision for tax
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(b)
Current tax liabilities
Provision for income-tax*
 3,296.76 
 3,876.24 
 3,296.76 
 3,876.24 
	
	
* Net of advance tax
	
	
Note: Including refund adjusted by tax authorities against demand orders of earlier years which are being contested by the 
Company under various forums.
6(vii)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (UNSECURED) (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
372
6(x)
OTHER ASSETS (UNSECURED)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current
Considered good
(a)
Capital advances
 9,211.27 
 2,101.26 
(b)
Premium on option contracts
 - 
 15.02 
(c)
Prepaid expenses
 169.72 
 365.51 
(d)
Balances with government authorities
- Amount paid under protest to Income-tax authorities
 4,640.08 
 4,106.93 
- Goods and service tax and other taxes recoverable
 1,415.66 
 1,310.22 
Total (A)
 15,436.73 
 7,898.94 
Credit impaired
(a)
Capital advances (refer note 27 (C) (ii))
 107.68 
 172.02 
 107.68 
 172.02 
Less: Loss allowance
 (107.68)
 (172.02)
Total (B)
 (107.68)
 (172.02)
Total (A+B)
 15,436.73 
 7,898.94 
Current
Considered good
(a)
Balances with government authorities - Goods and service tax 
recoverable
 614.08 
 225.38 
(b)
Advance to vendors
 1,038.90 
 1,609.91 
(c)
Prepaid expenses
 3,391.71 
 2,816.39 
(d)
Premium on option contracts
 - 
 28.66 
(e)
Unamortised premium on forward contracts
 4.20 
 4.20 
(f)
Unamortised finance charges
 54.28 
 54.28 
Total (A)
 5,103.17 
 4,738.82 
Credit impaired
(a)
Balances with government authorities - customs excise and other 
authorities
 41.79 
 41.79 
(b)
Deposits with income tax authorities
 8.81 
 8.81 
(c)
Advance to vendors
 69.96 
 30.06 
 120.56 
 80.66 
Less: Loss allowance
 (120.56)
 (80.66)
Total (B)
 (120.56)
 (80.66)
Total (A+B)
 5,103.17 
 4,738.82 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
373
6(xi)
INVENTORIES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
(a)
Medical consumables and drugs (including reagents and chemicals)
 11,529.18 
 10,741.64 
 11,529.18 
 10,741.64 
6(xii)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
	
	
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in 
banks, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as shown in the 
consolidated statement of cash flows can be reconciled to the related items in the consolidated balance sheet as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Balances with banks
- 	
on current accounts
 5,151.90 
 5,041.72 
- 	
deposits with original maturity of less than three months
 7,992.42 
 17,820.53 
(b)
Cheques, drafts on hand
 18.45 
 9.97 
(c)
Cash on hand
 809.49 
 654.57 
Cash and cash equivalents as per  balance sheet
 13,972.26 
 23,526.79 
Bank overdrafts [refer note 6(xvii)]
 (3,981.56)
 (6,560.33)
Cash and cash equivalents as per statement of cash flows
 9,990.70 
 16,966.46 
6(xiii)
OTHER BANK BALANCES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)	
Unpaid dividend account
 228.71 
 28.55 
(b)
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 
12 months
 36,598.28 
 36,284.30 
 36,826.99 
 36,312.85 
6(xiv)
ASSETS/LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Assets held for sale
(a) 	 Assets related to Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited (HHPL)
 - 
 34.46 
 - 
 34.46 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
374
6(xv)
SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Authorised share capital:
850,000,000 (850,000,000 as at March 31, 2024) Equity shares of ` 10 each
 85,000.00 
 85,000.00 
200 Class 'A' (200 as at March 31, 2024) Non- cumulative redeemable 
preference shares of ` 100,000 each
 200.00 
 200.00 
11,498,846 Class 'B' (11,498,846 as at March 31, 2024) Non- cumulative 
redeemable preference shares of ` 10 each
 1,149.88 
 1,149.88 
64,501,154 Class 'C' (64,501,154 as at March 31, 2024) Cumulative 
redeemable preference shares of ` 10 each
 6,450.12 
 6,450.12 
Total authorised share capital
 92,800.00 
 92,800.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up shares
754,958,148 (754,958,148 as at March 31, 2024) Equity shares of ` 10 each
 75,495.81 
 75,495.81 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital
 75,495.81 
 75,495.81 
	
	
Notes :
	
	
(a)	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period:
	
	
	
Equity shares
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares
` in Lakhs
Number of 
shares
` in Lakhs
At the beginning of the year 
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
Issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
 75,49,58,148 
 75,495.81 
	
	
(b)	 Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
	
	
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of ` 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares 
is entitled to one vote per share. Where dividend is proposed by the Board of Directors, it is subject to the approval 
of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend proposed by Board of Directors is subject 
to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting (refer note 34). In the event of liquidation 
of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company after 
distribution of all preferential amount. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by 
the shareholders.
	
	
(c)	
Shares held by the holding/ ultimate holding company and/ or their subsidiaries
	
	
	
Equity shares
Name of Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held
` in Lakhs
Number of 
shares held
` in Lakhs
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd (refer 
note 30) (Holding Company)
 23,52,94,117 
 23,529.41 
 23,52,94,117 
 23,529.41 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
375
	
	
(d)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
	
	
	
Equity shares
Name of Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held
% of Holding 
Number of 
shares held
% of Holding 
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd
 23,52,94,117 
31.17%
 23,52,94,117 
31.17%
	
	
(e) 	 For the period of five years immediately preceding the date of the balance sheet, there were no share allotment made 
for consideration other than cash and also no bonus shares were issued. Further, there has been no buyback of shares 
during the period of five years preceding the date of balance sheet.
	
	
(f)	
Details of shares held by the promoters
	
	
	
As at 31 March 2025
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of Total 
Shares
% change 
during the 
year
Northern TK Venture Pte 
Ltd
 23,52,94,117 
 - 
 23,52,94,117 
31.17%
 - 
Total
23,52,94,117
 - 
23,52,94,117
31.17%
 - 
	
	
	
As at 31 March 2024
Promoter Name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of Total 
Shares
% change 
during the 
year
Northern TK Venture Pte 
Ltd
 23,52,94,117 
 - 
 23,52,94,117 
31.17%
 - 
Total
23,52,94,117
 - 
23,52,94,117
31.17%
 - 
6(xvi)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Non-Current 
Borrowings**
 Current 
borrowings 
(net)*** 
 Interest accrued 
 Lease liabilities 
As at April 01, 2023
 60,027.91 
 10,287.14 
 173.45 
 22,257.09 
Proceeds from borrowings 
 61,189.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Repayment of borrowings 
 (42,255.20)
 (385.82)
 - 
 - 
Reclassification of bank 
overdraft*
 - 
 (3,033.39)
 - 
 - 
Finance cost 
 - 
 - 
 10,238.55 
 2,855.96 
Finance cost paid 
 - 
 - 
 (10,143.03)
 (2,855.96)
Addition of lease contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,006.63 
Lease liabilities paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5,591.76)
As at March 31, 2024
 78,961.83 
 6,867.93 
 268.97 
 29,671.96 
6(xv)
SHARE CAPITAL (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
376
Particulars
Non-Current 
Borrowings**
 Current 
borrowings 
(net)*** 
 Interest accrued 
 Lease liabilities 
Proceeds from issue 
of non-convertible 
debentures
 1,55,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from borrowings 
 1,089.51 
 39.63 
 - 
 - 
Repayment of borrowings 
 (19,848.83)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Reclassification of bank 
overdraft*
 - 
 (2,578.77)
 - 
 - 
Finance cost****
 - 
 - 
 14,733.44 
 2,669.28 
Finance cost paid 
 - 
 - 
 (11,138.76)
 (2,669.28)
Addition of lease contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,422.52 
Deletion of lease contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4,918.28)
Lease liabilities paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5,196.63)
As at March 31, 2025
 2,15,202.51 
 4,328.79 
 3,863.65 
 27,979.57 
	
	
*Bank overdraft have been reclassified from current borrowings to cash and cash equivalent for the purpose of preparation 
of statement of cash flow.
	
	
** Including Current maturities of non-current borrowings
	
	
*** Excluding Current maturities of non-current borrowings
	
	
**** It excludes the interest expenses on defined benefit plan and other long term obligations.
6(xvii)
NON-CURRENT BORROWINGS
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Carried at amortised cost
Secured [refer note 11(I)]
(a) 	 Term loan from banks
 52,871.53 
 73,376.38 
(b) 	 Vehicle loans
 700.84 
 708.84 
(c) 	 Non-convertible debentures
 1,55,000.00 
 - 
Non-current borrowings - Total 
 2,08,572.37 
 74,085.22 
6(xvii)
CURRENT BORROWINGS
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Carried at amortised cost
Secured - at amortised cost [refer note 11(II)]
(a)	
Bank overdraft
 3,981.56 
 6,560.33 
(b) 	 Working capital demand loan
 66.57 
 - 
(c) 	 Deferred payment liabilities
 - 
 29.69 
6(xvi)
(Contd..)
(` in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
377
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(d) 	 Current maturities of non-current borrowings [refer note 11(I)]
 6,630.14 
 4,876.61 
 10,678.27 
 11,466.63 
Unsecured - at amortised cost [refer note 11(II)]
(a) 	 Loan from body corporate
 280.66 
 277.91 
 280.66 
 277.91 
 10,958.93 
 11,744.54 
6(xviii) OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current
Unsecured
(a) 	 Security deposits
 3.42 
 8.42 
(b) 	 Payables on purchase of property, plant and equipment*
 71.63 
 71.63 
 75.05 
 80.05 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Current
Unsecured
(a) 	 Security deposits
 1,614.19 
 1,822.19 
(b) 	 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 3,863.65 
 268.97 
(c) 	 Unpaid equity dividend
 228.71 
 28.55 
(d) 	 Payables on purchase of property, plant and equipment*
 19,626.55 
 17,594.17 
(e) 	 Deferred purchase consideration (refer note 36)
 1,799.06 
 3,382.54 
(f) 	 Employees payable
 9,390.76 
 8,215.48 
(g) 	 Liability against indemnification (refer note 1 below)
 74.70 
 74.70 
(h) 	 Derivative liabilities
 30.42 
 1.10 
(i) 	
Put option [refer note 12(b)]
 - 
 1,69,600.00 
(j) 	
Other liabilities
 1,389.65 
 920.90 
 38,017.69 
 2,01,908.60 
	
	
* This also includes amount payable to micro and small enterprises amounting to ` 2,946.10 Lakhs (March 31, 2024 
` 1,736.29 Lakhs).
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1	
At the time of acquisition of Piramal labs (now Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited) by Agilus Diagnostics Limited 
(Subsidiary), it was agreed that any charge relating to tax litigations before the date of acquisition shall be indemnified 
to Agilus Diagnostics Limited. Accordingly, the amount paid by Piramal to Agilus Diagnostics Limited, has been shown 
under liability against indemnification till the litigations are settled. 
6(xvii)
CURRENT BORROWINGS (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
378
6(xix)
PROVISIONS
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Non-current
Provision for employee benefits
(a)
Provision for gratuity (refer note 17)
 12,738.97 
 11,416.35 
(b)
Provision for compensated absences 
 3,552.87 
 3,240.70 
 16,291.84 
 14,657.05 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Current
Provision for employee benefits
(a)
Provision for gratuity (refer note 17)
 1,445.97 
 1,291.43 
(b)
Provision for compensated absences 
 702.17 
 634.33 
Others
(a)
Provision for litigations  (refer note (iii) below and note 13)
 980.95 
 977.44 
(b)
Provision for contingencies [refer note (i) and (v) below]
 2,668.39 
 2,564.00 
(c)
Provision against vendor claim [refer note (ii) below]
 100.00 
 100.00 
 5,897.48 
 5,567.20 
	
	
Notes
	
	
(i)	
Provision for contingencies
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)  	Provision for Indemnification [refer note 12(a)]
 205.03 
 205.03 
(b) 	 Others
Opening balance (refer note (iv) below)
 2,358.97 
 2,224.33 
Add: provision created during the year (refer note (v) below)
 328.38 
 348.42 
Less: utilisation during the year
 (116.49)
 - 
Less: write back during the year
 (107.50)
 (213.78)
Closing balance
 2,463.36 
 2,358.97 
Total - Provision for contingencies
 2,668.39 
 2,564.00 
	
	
(ii)	 Includes provision of ` 100 Lakhs against a claim made by a body corporate against the Group in respect of certain 
electrical work done at Gurugram unit.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
379
	
	
(iii)	 Provision for litigations
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Opening balance
 977.44 
 991.42 
Add: provision made during the year
 3.51 
 18.96 
Less: utilised during the year
 - 
 (32.94)
Closing balance
 980.95 
 977.44 
	
	
(iv)	 Provision created during the year ended March 31, 2021 includes ` 1,460.00 Lakhs in respect of any contingencies 
emanating from regulatory matters, which will be settled when the outcome is known. (refer note 28)
	
	
(v)	 Provision for contingency is made against clinical research studies and amount due as refund to the patients.
6(xx)
TRADE PAYABLES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Current
(a)
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (refer 
note 33)
 10,627.61 
 14,475.11 
(b)
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 70,133.92 
 58,304.07 
 80,761.53 
 72,779.18 
Of the above trade payables amounts due to related parties are 
as below:
Trade payables due to related parties
 107.61 
 42.10 
 107.61 
 42.10 
	
	
Ageing schedule
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Unbilled
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 
3 years
(i) 	
MSME
-
 7,765.74 
 2,612.80 
 197.98 
 20.86 
 30.23 
 10,627.61 
(ii) 	 Others
 26,235.29  25,854.66  14,988.03 
 649.85 
 1,145.55 
 1,260.54 
 70,133.92 
(iii) 	 Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80,761.53 
6(xix)
PROVISIONS (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
380
As at March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Unbilled
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 
3 years
(i) 	
MSME
 -  12,735.73 
 1,646.85 
 47.42 
 18.88 
 26.23 
 14,475.11 
(ii) 	 Others
 20,943.79  19,401.08  13,963.27 
 1,540.26 
 1,212.42 
 1,243.25 
 58,304.07 
(iii) 	 Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) 	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 72,779.18 
6(xxi)
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Contract liabilities - advances from customers
 5,319.99 
 4,966.76 
(b)
Statutory dues payable
 10,643.06 
 10,582.43 
(c)
Liability towards customer loyalty program*
 234.23 
 204.14 
(d)
Deferred revenue
 182.15 
 212.78 
 16,379.43 
 15,966.11 
	
	
*The movement during the year is as below :	
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Opening balance 
 204.14 
 172.41 
Deferred during the year
 285.38 
 273.27 
Utilised/ lapsed during the year
 (255.29)
 (241.54)
Closing balance
 234.23 
 204.14 
6(xxii)
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
	
	
I.	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
	
A.	
Sale of services
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
i) 	
Healthcare services
- Revenue from in patient department
 5,74,371.90 
 4,96,973.14 
- Revenue from out patient department
 84,498.63 
 77,176.90 
- Income from medical services
 951.59 
 638.68 
- Management fees from hospital
 5,287.55 
 5,185.28 
- Income from clinical research
 16.30 
 112.49 
 6,65,125.97 
 5,80,086.49 
6(xx)
TRADE PAYABLES (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
381
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Less: Trade discounts
 (31,944.57)
 (27,892.42)
 6,33,181.40 
 5,52,194.07 
ii) 	
Diagnostic services*
 1,24,458.06 
 1,19,367.35 
	
Less: Customer loyalty program
 (30.09)
 (31.72)
 1,24,427.97 
 1,19,335.63 
Total (A) 
 7,57,609.37 
 6,71,529.70 
*Disaggregation of revenue from diagnostic services as per Ind AS 115:
	
-Owned labs
 97,861.70 
 92,542.01 
	
-Collection centers
 24,218.43 
 24,302.42 
	
-Franchisees
 2,347.84 
 2,491.20 
 1,24,427.97 
 1,19,335.63 
	
	
	
Revenue disaggregation as per industry vertical and geography has been included in segment information (Refer note 
8). The revenue recognised during the current year is the balancing number for transactions with customers after 
adjusting opening and closing balances of unbilled revenue and liabilities.
	
	
B.	
Sale of products - trading	
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
	
(i) Out patient pharmacy and others
 15,622.24 
 12,362.05 
Less: Trade discounts
 (842.39)
 (383.08)
Total (B)
 14,779.85 
 11,978.97 
I.
Total revenue from contracts with customers (A+B)
 7,72,389.22 
 6,83,508.67 
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 14,779.85 
 11,978.97 
Services transferred over time
 5,50,994.27 
 4,77,641.58 
Services transferred at a point in time
 2,06,615.10 
 1,93,888.12 
 7,72,389.22 
 6,83,508.67 
Contract balances
Contract assets (unbilled revenue)
 7,303.75 
 7,202.04 
Contract liabilities (advance from customers)
 5,319.99 
 4,966.76 
Deferred revenue
 182.15 
 212.78 
II.
Other operating revenues
(i) Income from academic services
 610.51 
 623.54 
(ii) Income from rent (refer note 10 (b))
 1,541.47 
 1,196.67 
(iii) Equipment lease rental (refer note 10 (b))
 514.00 
 581.06 
(iv) Provisions/ liabilities no longer required written back
 2,222.72 
 2,269.06 
(v) Miscellaneous income
 997.29 
 1,112.71 
II.
Total other operating revenues
 5,885.99 
 5,783.04 
Total revenue from operations (I+II)
 7,78,275.21 
 6,89,291.71 
6(xxii)
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
382
6(xxiii) OTHER INCOME
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) Interest income
i)
Interest income
- on bank deposits
 3,856.57 
 1,942.63 
- on Income-tax refund
 1,835.99 
 720.74 
ii)
Interest on other financial assets carried at amortised cost
 290.89 
 326.01 
(b) Other non-operating income
i)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 348.68 
 350.18 
ii)
Gain on sale of investment
 25.42 
 38.11 
iii)
Net gain arising on financial assets designated at FVTPL
 0.42 
 38.31 
iv)
Miscellaneous income
 336.04 
 409.03 
Total other income (a+b)
 6,694.01 
 3,825.01 
6(xxiv) CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF MEDICAL CONSUMABLE AND DRUGS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Inventory at the beginning of the year
 10,741.64 
 12,284.47 
(b)
Inventory at the end of the year
 11,529.18 
 10,741.64 
Changes in inventories [(a)-(b)]
 (787.54)
 1,542.83 
6(xxv)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Salaries, wages and bonus
 1,05,458.75 
 1,01,046.36 
(b)
Gratuity expense (refer note 17)
 1,625.20 
 1,575.77 
(c)
Compensated absences
 593.46 
 522.79 
(d)
Contribution to provident and other funds
 5,800.31 
 5,620.99 
(e)
Staff welfare expenses
 3,246.16 
 3,186.86 
 1,16,723.88 
 1,11,952.77 
6(xxvi) FINANCE COSTS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
- on term loans
 5,908.21 
 5,259.68 
- on non-convertible debenture (refer note 11)
 4,178.95 
 - 
- on cash credit
 893.26 
 873.28 
- on others
 556.25 
 371.20 
Interest expense on:
- deferred purchase consideration/liability towards intangibles
 237.88 
 440.03 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
383
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
- on defined benefit plan and other long term employee benefits
 1,038.76 
 1,004.60 
- interest on lease liabilities (refer note 10)
 2,669.28 
 2,855.96 
(b)
Other borrowing cost
 2,958.89 
 2,289.76 
 18,441.48 
 13,094.51 
6(xxvii) DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer note 6(i)(a))
 27,469.52 
 23,510.83 
(b)
Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 6(iii)(a))
 4,128.53 
 4,286.17 
(c)
Amortisation of Right-of-use assets (refer note 10)
 6,963.43 
 6,452.75 
 38,561.48 
 34,249.75 
6(xxviii) OTHER EXPENSES
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a)
Contractual manpower
 11,296.60 
 10,999.16 
(b)
Power and fuel 
 12,340.68 
 11,951.88 
(c)
Housekeeping expenses including consumables
 9,334.22 
 9,225.70 
(d)
Patient food and beverages
 5,371.47 
 4,910.40 
(e)
Pathology laboratory expenses
 1,066.42 
 1,209.44 
(f)
Radiology expenses
 5,164.97 
 4,979.02 
(g)
Cost of medical services
 1,568.37 
 1,535.30 
(h)
Professional and consultation fees to doctors
 1,63,061.95 
 1,45,951.28 
(i)
Repairs and maintenance
- Building 
 939.84 
 791.50 
- Plant and machinery (including medical equipments)
 16,455.83 
 15,146.34 
- Others
 1,869.14 
 1,626.12 
(j)
Rent
- Hospital buildings, offices and labs
 3,902.82 
 4,061.12 
- Equipments
 1,577.25 
 1,496.13 
- Others
 1,839.95 
 1,591.68 
(k)
Donations
 1.80 
 0.30 
(l)
Independent Director remuneration
 376.62 
 354.00 
(m)
Legal and professional fee
 10,450.62 
 9,981.49 
(n)
Travel and conveyance
 4,381.94 
 3,852.31 
(o)
Rates and taxes
 2,284.53 
 1,968.69 
(p)
Printing and stationary
 7,209.12 
 7,103.02 
(q)
Recruitment and trainings
 154.59 
 303.55 
(r)
Communication expenses
 1,487.67 
 1,382.51 
(s)
Directors' sitting fees
 315.59 
 372.96 
(t)
Insurance
 1,500.79 
 1,350.54 
6(xxvi) FINANCE COSTS (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
384
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(u)
Marketing and business promotion
 34,200.38 
 27,024.87 
(v)
Fees to collection centers
 11,371.60 
 11,263.35 
(w)
Net loss on foreign currency transactions
 75.40 
 36.37 
(x)
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables (refer note 6(v))
 6,180.45 
 3,962.13 
(y)
Allowance for doubtful advances
 212.49 
 1,265.99 
(z)
Provision for litigations [refer note 6(xix)]
 3.52 
 18.96 
(aa) Expenditure on corporate social responsibility (refer note 23)
 1,476.64 
 1,177.45 
(ab) Contingent consideration payment of lab acquisition
 1,015.11 
 436.96 
(ac) Amortisation of premium on option contracts
 43.68 
 57.82 
(ad) Miscellaneous expenses
 1,205.19 
 1,319.50 
 3,19,737.24 
 2,88,707.84 
6(xxix) EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(Expenses)/ Income:
(a)
(Charge)/ reversal of impairment of investment in Lanka Hospitals 
Corporation Plc, Sri Lanka [refer note 22 (a)]
 (7,434.55)
 888.97 
(b)
Profit on sale/divestment of Arcot Road unit [refer note 22 (b)]
 - 
 349.29 
(c)
Reversal of allowance for interest accrued on loan given to Fortis C-Doc 
Healthcare Limited [refer note 22 (c)]
 88.33 
 80.00 
(d)
Profit on divestment of assets and liabilities related to operations of 
Fortis Malar (including associated Land) (net of goodwill written off 
` 2,044.12 Lakhs) [refer note 22 (d)]
 - 
 283.48 
(e)
Profit on sale/divestment of assets and liabilities related to operations of 
Richmond Road unit [refer note 35(c )]
 2,350.45 
 - 
(f)
Reversal of impairment of property, plant & equipment of Faridabad 
hospital [refer note 22(e)]
 286.15 
 - 
(g)
Impairment of Property, plant and equipment in Ludhiana hospital [refer 
note 22(f)]
 (4,223.99)
 - 
 (8,933.61)
 1,601.74 
6(xxx)
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
(a) 	 Profit after tax as per statement of profit and loss (` in Lakhs)
 77,421.52 
 59,887.55 
(b)
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
 75,49,58,148 
 75,49,58,148 
(c)
Basic earnings per share in rupees (face value – ` 10 per share)
 10.26 
 7.93 
(d)
Diluted earnings per share in rupees (face value – ` 10 per share)
 10.26 
 7.93 
6(xxviii) OTHER EXPENSES (Contd..)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
385
7.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP
	
The list of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures considered in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are 
as follows:
Name of the Group Company
Place of 
incorporation 
and principal 
place of 
business
Principal activity
Proportion of effective 
interest/ voting power 
ownership held by 
Group
March 
31, 2025
March 31, 
2024
a)	
Subsidiaries
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited 
(HHPL)
India
Operates a multi-specialty hospital
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL)
India
Operates clinical establishments
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Health Management Limited
India
Operates clinical establishment & 
hospital
100.00%
100.00%
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
India
Operates a hospital
100.00%
100.00%
International Hospital Limited
India
Operates clinical establishments & 
hospital
100.00%
100.00%
Escorts 
Heart 
& 
Super 
Speciality 
Hospital Limited
India
Operates clinical establishments
100.00%
100.00%
Adayu Mindfulness Limited (formerly 
Fortis Lafemme Limited (FLFL))
India
Providing healthcare services
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis 
Health 
Management 
(East) 
Limited (FHM(E)L)
India
Non-operational
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Cancer Care Limited (FCCL)
India
Non-operational
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Healthcare International Limited 
(FHIL)
Mauritius
Investment company
100.00%
100.00%
Escorts Heart Institute and Research 
Centre Limited (EHIRCL)
India
Operates a multi-specialty hospital
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited (FMHL)
India
Non-operational
62.71%
62.71%
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)
India
Operates a network of multi-specialty 
hospitals
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Global Healthcare (Mauritius) 
Limited (FGHL)
Mauritius
Investment company
100.00%
100.00%
Malar Stars Medicare Limited (MSML)
(refer note 4)
India
Non-operational
62.71%
62.71%
Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte. Limited 
(FAHPL)
Singapore
Investment company
100.00%
100.00%
Birdie & Birdie Realtors Private Limited
India
Non-operational
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Emergency Services Limited (FESL)
India
Operates ambulance services
100.00%
100.00%
Stellant 
Capital 
Advisory 
Services 
Private Limited
India
Merchant banker
100.00%
100.00%
RHT Health Trust Manager Pte Limited
Singapore
Managing RHT Health Trust
100.00%
100.00%
Fortis Healthstaff Limited
India
Operates 
a 
network 
of 
heart 
command centres
100.00%
100.00%
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (formerly SRL 
Limited) (refer note 5)
India
Operates a network of diagnostics 
centres
88.32%
57.11%
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
386
Name of the Group Company
Place of 
incorporation 
and principal 
place of 
business
Principal activity
Proportion of effective 
interest/ voting power 
ownership held by 
Group
March 
31, 2025
March 31, 
2024
Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited (formerly 
SRL Diagnostic Private Limited) (refer 
note 5)
India
Operates a network of diagnostics 
centres
88.32%
57.11%
Agilus Pathlabs Reach Limited (formerly 
SRL Reach Limited) (refer note 5)
India
Operates a network of diagnostics 
centres
88.32%
57.11%
Agilus Diagnostics FZ-LLC (formerly SRL 
Diagnostics FZ-LLC) (refer note 5)
United Arab 
Emirates
Operates a network of diagnostics 
centres
88.32%
57.11%
DDRC Agilus Pathlabs Limited (formerly 
DDRC SRL Diagnostics Limited) (refer 
note 5)
India
Operates a network of diagnostics 
centres
88.32%
57.11%
Fortis Healthcare International Pte 
Limited (FHIPL) (refer note 2)
Singapore
Investment company
100.00%
100.00%
Mena Healthcare Investment Company 
Limited
British Virgin 
Islands
Investment company
82.54%
82.54%
Medical 
Management 
Company 
Limited
British Virgin 
Islands
Non-operational
82.54%
82.54%
Fortis CSR Foundation (refer note 1 
below)
India
Carrying 
out 
corporate 
social 
responsibilities
100.00%
100.00%
Artistery Properties Private Limited 
(refer note 3 below)
India
Non-operational
100.00%
100.00%
b)	
Associates
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
Sri Lanka
Operates a multi-specialty hospital
28.60%
28.60%
RHT Health Trust (formerly known as 
Religare Health Trust) (RHT)
Singapore
Investment holding company
27.82%
27.82%
c)	
Joint Ventures
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited (C-Doc)
India
Operates a hospital
60.00%
60.00%
Fortis Cauvery
India
Non-operational
51.00%
51.00%
Agilus 
Diagnostics 
(Nepal) 
Private 
Limited (formerly SRL Diagnostics Nepal 
Private Limited).(refer below note 5)
Nepal
Operates a network of diagnostics 
centres
44.16%
28.56%
	
Notes: -
	
1.	
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Group incorporated ‘Fortis CSR Foundation’, a non-profit Company under 
Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 for carrying out Corporate Social Responsibilities (‘CSR’) of the Group. Since the 
objective of control over the entity by the Group is not to obtain economic benefits from its activities and it is not exposed 
to variable returns from the Company, it is not considered for preparation of consolidated financial statement of the 
Group.
	
2.	
Fortis Healthcare International Pte Limited was amalgamated with Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte. Limited (FAHPL) w.e.f June 
12, 2024.
	
3.	
Includes 10 shares, held by an individual, over which the Company has ownership control through the share purchase 
agreement.
7.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
387
	
4.	
Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2025, Malar Stars Medicare Limited (MSML) has filed the application for 
conversion into a section 8 Company. The application is pending approval from Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA).
	
5.	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the group increased the stake in Agilus Limited from 57.11% to 88.32% (dilutive 
basis) [refer note 12(b)].
8.
SEGMENT REPORTING
	
The Group has presented healthcare and diagnostic as two separate reportable segments in accordance with “Ind AS 108 
Operating segments”.
	
Healthcare business includes inpatient and outpatient services, sale of medical and non-medical items and management fees 
from hospital.
	
Diagnostics business include pathology and radiology services.
(` in Lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Year Ended
March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
1.
Revenue from operations
Healthcare
652,802.75
568,591.30
Diagnostics
140,673.98
137,204.07
Gross value of sales and services
793,476.73
705,795.37
Less: Inter segment sales and services
(15,201.52)
(16,503.66)
Revenue from Operations
778,275.21
689,291.71
2.
Segment result
Healthcare
107,081.49
82,807.86
Diagnostics
13,151.96
9,741.85
Total segment profit before interest and tax
120,233.45
 92,549.71
(i) Finance cost
(18,441.48)
 (13,094.51)
(ii) Exceptional items and unallocable expenditure (net of unallocable income)
(2,239.53)
5,390.39
(iii) Share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures (net)
1152.29
951.04
Profit before tax
100,704.73
 85,796.63
3.
Profit for the year
Healthcare
71,184.37
57,831.77
Diagnostics
9,754.09
6,690.14
4.
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Healthcare
26,856.77
23,055.94
Diagnostics
11,704.71
11,193.81
5.
Capital expenditure
Healthcare
77,086.26
92,683.39
Diagnostics
1,989.57
4,196.97
6.
Equity interest in profit and loss of Joint venture and associates
Healthcare
 1,152.79
962.21
Diagnostics
 (0.50)
(11.17)
7.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
388
(` in Lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Year Ended
March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
7.
Investment using equity method in joint ventures and associates
Healthcare
16,647.77
22,714.78
Diagnostics
 249.82
250.32
8.
Segment assets
Healthcare
 992,894.73
930,281.03
Diagnostics
 211,229.95
210,459.31
Un-allocable assets
 168,909.78
191,059.75
Total segment assets
 1,373,034.46
1,331,800.09
Inter segment assets
 (3,881.74)
(2,922.07)
Total assets
 1,369,152.72
1,328,878.02
9.
Segment liabilities
Healthcare
 140,985.36
297,503.72
Diagnostics
 44,435.33
45,738.78
Un-allocable liabilities
 270,674.74
132,943.82
Total segment liabilities
 456,095.43
476,186.32
Inter segment liabilities
 (3,881.74)
(2,922.07)
Total liabilities
 452,213.69
473,264.25
	
Sales by market- Revenue from external customers by location of customers
	
The following table shows the distribution of the Group’s consolidated revenues by geographical market.
(` in Lakhs)
Region
 Year ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
India
774,410.26
 685,727.24
Outside India
3,864.95
 3,564.47
Total
778,275.21
 689,291.71
	
Carrying value of non-current assets- by location of assets
	
The following table shows the carrying amount of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred-tax assets 
by geographical area in which the assets are located:
(` in Lakhs)
Region
Carrying amount of assets
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
India
1,184,290.86
1,149,462.33
Outside India
 389.17
114.76
Total
1,184,680.03
1,149,577.09
	
Major customer
	
The Group does not derive revenue from any customer which would amount to 10 per cent or more of the Group’s revenue.
8.
SEGMENT REPORTING (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
389
9.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
	
Names of related parties and names of related party relationships:
Nature of relationship
Name of the related party
Ultimate Holding Company
IHH Healthcare Berhad
Intermediate Holding Company Integrated Healthcare Holdings Limited
Parkway Pantai Limited
Holding Company
Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd
Subsidiary
Fortis CSR Foundation [refer note 7(1) above]
Associates (parties with whom 
transactions have taken place)
RHT Health Trust (RHT)
Lanka Hospitals Corporation PLC
Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics (Pvt) Ltd
Joint Ventures (parties with 
whom transactions have taken 
place)
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private Limited
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited (C-Doc)
Fortis Cauvery, Partnership Firm (Joint Venture of FCCL)
Key Management Personnel 
(‘KMP’)/ Directors and 
their Relatives (with whom 
transactions have been taken 
place)
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi - Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Leo Puri – Chairman- Independent Director (w.e.f. from December 27, 2024)
Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal - Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal – Independent Director (upto September 30, 2024)
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakrobarty – Independent Director
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee – Independent Director
Mr. Murlee Manohar Jain-Company Secretary (upto February 29, 2024)
Mr. Satyendra Chauhan-Company Secretary (w.e.f. from March 01, 2024)
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar- Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Tomo Nagahiro- Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Takeshi Saito - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (upto March 28, 2023)
Mr. Dilip Kadambi- Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Sim Heng Joo Joe - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (upto August 31, 2023)
Ms. Shailaja Chandra - Independent Director
Mr. Joerg Ayrle – Non Executive Non Independent Director (Up to October 02, 2023)
Dr. Prem Kumar Nair – Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (w.e.f from November 10, 
2023)
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin – Non-Executive Non-Independent (w.e.f May 04, 2023)
Mr. Ashok Pandit – Non-Executive Non-Independent (w.e.f. from September 13, 2023)
Enterprises owned or 
significantly controlled/
influenced by subsidiary of 
holding/ultimate holding 
company/ enterprise having 
significant influence over 
ultimate holding company 
(with whom transactions have 
been taken place)
Mauritius International Trust Company Limited
Gleneagles Healthcare India Private Limited (formerly Ravindranath GE Medical Associates 
Private Limited)
Centre for Digestive and Kidney Diseases (India) Private Limited
Bharat Insecticides Limited
Mitsui and Co India Private Limited
Acibadem Teknoloji A.S.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
390
Nature of relationship
Name of the related party
Entities having significant 
influence (Enterprises having 
significant influence over 
ultimate holding company 
through its subsidiary)
Mitsui & Co Ltd
Khazanah Nasional Berhad
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Transactions during the year
Operating income (including Income from medical services, Management 
fees from hospitals and Pharmacy income)
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private limited
340.31
266.09
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
57.68
97.41
RHT Health Trust
56.86
55.39
Gleneagles Healthcare India Private Limited
500.31
0.71
Mitsui and Co India Pvt Limited
-
0.98
Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics (Pvt) Ltd
38.18
50.18
Fortis CSR Foundation
150.14
-
Dividend income
Agilus Diagnostics Nepal Private Limited
-
58.50
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
-
427.14
Consultation fees to doctors
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
84.79
74.08
Collection by company on behalf of
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
3.54
-
Collection on behalf of company by
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
-
3.61
Legal and Professional Fees
Mauritius International Trust Company Limited
16.32
16.96
Intangible assets acquired
Acibadem Teknoloji A.S.
960.63
280.93
Transfer of employee benefit liability from
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
0.12
1.21
9.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
391
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Transfer of employee benefit liability to
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
-
5.87
Managerial remuneration (refer note 3 below)
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Short-term employee benefits
959.06
907.14
Post employment and other long-term benefits
34.94
20.11
Mr. Vivek Kumar Goyal
Short-term employee benefits
551.01
463.48
Post employment and other long-term benefits
13.16
14.88
Mr. Murlee Manohar Jain
Short-term employee benefits
-
101.86
Post employment and other long-term benefits
-
1.92
Mr. Satyendra Chauhan
Short-term employee benefits
101.13
19.44
Post employment and other long-term benefits
4.15
0.01
Allowance for Interest accrued on loans recoverable (reversed)
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
88.33
80.00
Reversal of impairment on investments
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
-
888.97
Impairment on investments
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
7,434.55
-
Interest income
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
32.47
0.37
Expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private limited
-
0.19
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
25.80
47.30
Expense incurred on behalf of the Company by
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private limited
31.31
24.88
9.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
392
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Independent Directors Remuneration (refer note 4 below)
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
55.76
106.20
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
86.73
82.60
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakrabarty
86.73
82.60
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
86.73
82.60
Mr. Leo Puri
60.68
-
Director Sitting Fees (refer note 4 below)
Mr. Indrajit Banerjee
41.17
36.23
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
14.19
44.29
Ms. Suvalaxmi Chakrobarty
38.10
35.12
Ms. Shailaja Chandra
47.50
44.11
Northern TK Venture Pte. Limited (Mr. Dilip Kadambi)
11.80
11.80
Northern TK Venture Pte. Limited (Mr. Joerg Ayrle)
-
8.26
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
4.72
9.44
Mitsui and Co. Ltd. (Mr.Tomo Nagahiro)
9.44
11.80
Mr. Sim Heng Joo Joe
-
7.08
Mr. Ashok Pandit
21.24
10.62
Mr. Prem Kumar Nair
16.52
9.44
Mr. Leo Puri
4.72
-
Reimbursement of expenses (refer note 4 below)
Mr. Ravi Rajagopal
2.43
9.57
Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
6.10
5.25
Mr. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar
23.55
51.36
Mitsui and Co. Ltd. (Mr. Tomo Nagahiro)
3.50
13.58
Mr. Lim Tsin Lin
1.35
-
Mr. Takeshi Saito
1.50
-
Hospital services taken for employees from
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
6.41
-
Hospital services given to group employees of
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
2.42
-
Transfer of Medical Consumables and drugs to
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
0.07
-
9.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
393
	
Balance Outstanding at the year end
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Loans/Advances recoverable
Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics (Pvt) Ltd
3.97
3.97
Interest accrued
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
-
88.33
Provision for doubtful interest
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
-
88.33
Gross investments (net of sale proceeds)
Fortis CSR Foundation
5.00
5.00
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
19,762.82
19,762.82
RHT Health Trust
60,853.75
60,853.75
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private limited
150.00
150.00
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
1,922.85
1,922.85
Provision for investment
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
9,676.24
2,241.69
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
1,922.85
1,922.85
Investments (at net book value)
Lanka Hospitals Corporation Plc
13,967.11
20,049.59
RHT Health Trust
2,680.65
2,665.19
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private limited
249.82
250.32
Other balance recoverable
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
34.66
34.66
Fortis Cauvery
13.25
13.25
Trade receivables
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private Limited
550.83
415.91
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
538.25
553.21
Gleneagles Healthcare India Pvt Limited
121.76
0.82
Bharat Insecticides Limited
0.31
0.31
Centre for Digestive and Kidney Diseases (India) Private Limited
0.12
0.44
Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics (Pvt) Ltd
22.54
-
Fortis CSR Foundation
0.16
-
9.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
394
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Provision for doubtful receivable
Fortis Cauvery
13.25
13.25
Trade Payables
Agilus Diagnostics (Nepal) Private Limited
65.75
32.66
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
1.37
1.28
Mauritius International Trust Company Limited
10.36
8.16
Capital Creditors
Acibadem Teknoloji A.S.
263.16
85.41
Advance from customers
Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics (Pvt) Ltd
-
15.89
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Also refer note 12(a) and 12 (c).
	
2.	
All transactions with these related parties are priced on an arm’s length basis and financial assets/liabilities are to be settled 
in cash within credit period from the reporting date. None of the balances are secured.
	
3.	
Amount shown is inclusive of perquisites, employer’s contribution to provident fund and excluding reimbursement of 
expenses.
	
4.	
Amount shown is inclusive of Goods and Servies Tax (GST) payable under reverse charge mechanism.
10. LEASES
	
(a)	 As a lessee:
	
	
The Group leases many assets including land, buildings and plant and equipment. Information about leases for which the 
Group is a lessee is presented below:
Right-of-use assets
Leasehold 
land
(refer note (i) 
and (ii) below)
Buildings
Plant & 
equipments
Total
Gross carrying value
As at April 01, 2023
88,623.22
27,273.39
3,502.27
1,19,398.88
Addition
 3,750.45
 11,078.15
 3,692.59
 18,521.19
Disposals
 -
 (3,758.54)
 (73.63)
 (3,832.17)
Exchange translation adjustments
 -
 6.95
 -
 6.95
As at March 31, 2024
 92,373.67
 34,599.95
 7,121.23
 134,094.85
Addition
-
7,726.26
996.26
8,722.52
Disposals
-
(7,488.08)
-
(7,488.08)
Exchange translation adjustments
-
(31.70)
-
(31.70)
As at March 31, 2025
92,373.67
34,806.43
8,117.49
135,297.59
9.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
395
Right-of-use assets
Leasehold 
land
(refer note (i) 
and (ii) below)
Buildings
Plant & 
equipments
Total
Accumulated depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
1,942.48
10,922.15
761.72
13,626.35
Charge for the year
 464.99
 4,934.97
 1,052.79
 6,452.75
Disposals
 -
 (2,993.69)
 (73.63)
 (3,067.32)
Exchange translation adjustments
 -
 5.51
 -
 5.51
As at March 31, 2024
 2,407.47
 12,868.94
 1,740.88
 17,017.29
Charge for the year
553.92
5,254.36
1,155.15
6,963.43
Disposals
-
(3,800.70)
-
(3,800.70)
Exchange translation adjustments
-
(32.66)
-
(32.66)
As at March 31, 2025
2,961.39
14,289.94
2,896.03
20,147.36
Net carrying value
As at March 31, 2024
89,966.20
21,731.01
5,380.35
117,077.56
As at March 31, 2025
89,412.28
20,516.49
5,221.46
115,150.23
Notes:
	
	
(i)	
Leasehold Land includes ` 377.11 Lakhs (Previous year ` 377.11 Lakhs) in respect of a subsidiary. Delhi Development 
Authority had terminated all the allotment letters lease/ deeds in respect of this land during the financial year 2005-
06. The subsidiary has filed an appeal in the Delhi High Court and repossession of land has been stayed by an interim 
stay order of Delhi High Court. Leasehold land is not amortised since it has been taken on a perpetual lease. [also 
refer note 14 (II) (i)]
	
	
(ii)	
Leasehold Land includes ` 21.11 Lakhs (Previous year ` 21.11 Lakhs) in respect of a subsidiary, for which, the 
deed is not in possession of the Group As per allotment letter, land has been allotted to a society which was later 
amalgamated into the subsidiary under Societies Registration Act.
	
	
(iii)	 Under the lease agreement, Fortis Hospotel Limited (subsidiary company) is required to pay annual lease rental of 
` 32.55 Lakhs till December 31, 2032. Rent shall be revised thereafter at the end of each successive period of 30 years 
and such increase shall not at each such time exceed one- half of the increase in the letting value of land as assessed 
by collector or additional collector of Delhi.
(` in Lakhs)
Lease Liabilities included in Balance Sheet (discounted)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current
5,419.47
 5,175.00
Non-current
22,560.11
 24,496.96
(` in Lakhs)
Maturity analysis - contractual undiscounted cash flows
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Less than one year
7,611.40
7,418.51
One to five years
22,245.29
21,765.38
More than five years
8,591.32
15,374.74
Total undiscounted lease liabilities
38,448.01
44,558.63
10. LEASES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
396
(` in Lakhs)
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Interest on lease liabilities
2,669.28
2,855.96
Expenses relating to short-term leases
7,320.02
7,148.93
(` in Lakhs)
Amounts recognised in statement of cash flow
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash outflow for lease payments
5,496.63
5,591.76
Interest on lease liabilities (included in Interest paid)
2,669.28
2,855.96
Total cash outflow for leases
8,165.91
8,447.72
	
(b)	 As a lessor
	
	
The Group has sub-leased some portion of hospital premises and certain medical equipment. The Group has classified these 
leases as operating lease, because they do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership 
of the assets. The total lease income received/ receivable in respect of hospital premises recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss for the year are ` 1,541.47 Lakhs (Previous year ` 1,196.67 Lakhs). The equipment lease rental 
received in respect of medical equipment recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the year are 
` 514.00 Lakhs (Previous year ` 581.06 Lakhs). All leases are cancellable at the option of either parties.
	
	
The details of assets given on lease are as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Gross 
carrying 
value
Accumulated 
Depreciation
Net 
carrying 
value
Gross 
carrying 
value
Accumulated 
Depreciation
Net 
carrying 
value
Building (leasehold improvements) 
& Furniture and fittings
118.52
118.52
-
167.65
133.19
34.46
Plant and machinery
61.51
61.51
-
91.59
91.59
-
Medical equipment
3,471.31
2,898.91
572.40
3,472.10
2,761.36
710.74
Computers
7.31
7.31
-
7.31
7.31
-
Office equipment
2.05
2.05
-
2.05
2.05
-
Total
3,660.70
3,088.30
572.40
3,740.70
2,995.50
745.20
10. LEASES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
397
11. BORROWINGS
I. Long-term borrowings (including current maturities)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security and guarantee details
Repayment terms
Interest 
rate per 
annum
Non-
current
Current
Non-
current
Current
A.	
TERM LOAN FROM BANKS – SECURED
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)**
The Term loan facility from The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited (“HSBC”) was secured against the first 
pari-passu charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHsL 
except machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other 
banks /financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on 
certain immoveable fixed assets of International Hospital Limited 
(IHL) (Noida and Faridabad), Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL) 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and Hospitalia Eastern Private 
Limited (HEPL) (Mall Road, Ludhiana) with minimum assets cover 
of 1.25x.
Repayable in structured 
quarterly instalments starting 
from April 2020 till October 
2030.
Additionally, there is call and 
put option due on September 
05, 2026.
Further during the current 
year, this facility has been fully 
prepaid.
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
-
-
5,432.08
-
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)**^
Term loan from HSBC secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHsL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
installments starting from 
September, 2025 till June, 2029.
During the current year, a 
repayment of ` 1,425 Lakhs has 
been made.
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
875.00
-
2,125.00
375.00
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)
ECLGS Term Loan facility from Axis Bank Limited (“Axis”) 
secured by second pari-passu charge over all the existing and 
future current assets of the FHsL and second pari-passu charge 
over movable fixed assets of FHsL both present and future, 
excluding vehicles and medical equipment exclusively financed 
by other lenders.
Repayable in equal monthly 
repayments starting from 
October 2025 till September 
2028.
During the previous year, 
` 4,568.75 Lakhs were 
prepaid and the next monthly 
installment is due in March 
2026.
Repo rate 
+ 2.40% 
payable at 
monthly 
intervals
8,047.07
268.75
8,308.98
-
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
398
I. Long-term borrowings (including current maturities)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security and guarantee details
Repayment terms
Interest 
rate per 
annum
Non-
current
Current
Non-
current
Current
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)
Term loan facility from ICICI Bank Limited (“ICICI”) secured 
against the first pari-passu charge on moveable fixed and current 
assets of FHsL and exclusive charge on immoveable fixed assets 
of FHsL (Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana )
Repayable in structured 
quarterly instalments starting 
from September 2025 till June 
2029.
ICICI 3 
months 
MCLR plus 
20 bps
10,930.24
2,906.20
13,834.98
1,125.00
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited 
(EHIRCL)**^
Term loan facility from HSBC secured against first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of EHIRCL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
instalments starting from June 
2025 till March 2029.
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
600.00
200.00
800.00
200.00
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited 
(EHIRCL)**^
Term loan from HSBC secured against first pari-passu charge 
on moveable fixed and current assets of EHIRCL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
installments starting from 
November 2020 till August 
2026.
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
41.67
83.33
125.01
83.33
International Hospital Limited (IHL)
Term loan facility from Axis bank secured by exclusive charge 
over immovable fixed assets of Fortis Hospitals, Bannerghata 
Road, Bengaluru owned by IHL with a security cover of minimum 
1.1x.
(i) For ` 2,723.83 Lakhs in 
structured installment starting 
from May 2025 till June 2029;
and
(ii) For ` 8,219.41 Lakhs in 
equal quarterly installments 
starting from August 2025 till 
June 2030.
Repo Rate 
plus 190 
bps
9,118.24
1,825.00
10,936.41
888.00
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
399
I. Long-term borrowings (including current maturities)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security and guarantee details
Repayment terms
Interest 
rate per 
annum
Non-
current
Current
Non-
current
Current
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL)**^
Term loan facility from HSBC secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHTL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
installments till August 2026
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
307.72
615.45
923.17
615.45
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL)**^
Term loan facility from HSBC secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHTL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
installments starting after 1 
year moratorium starting from 
November, 2025 till August, 
2030
HSBC 3 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
1,440.00
160.00
1,600.00
-
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)**^
Term loan facility from HSBC secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
installments starting from 
November, 2025 till August 
2029.
During the current year 
` 5,625.00 Lakhs have been 
prepaid.
The next repayment will be in 
May 2026.
HSBC 3 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
18,379.66
-
23,933.98
-
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
400
I. Long-term borrowings (including current maturities)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security and guarantee details
Repayment terms
Interest 
rate per 
annum
Non-
current
Current
Non-
current
Current
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)
Term loan facility from DBS secured against the first ranking pari-
passu charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHL and 
first and exclusive charge on certain immoveable fixed assets of 
EHSSHL (Jaipur, Rajasthan) with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in structured monthly 
instalments till September 2025.
The facility has been fully 
prepaid during the current year.
DBS 3/12 
months 
MCLR + 
1% margin 
or any 
other rate 
as may be 
mutually 
agreed 
upon
-
-
1.89
181.56
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)**
Term loan facility from HSBC secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
instalments till August 2026.
During the current year, the 
facility has been fully prepaid.
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
-
-
822.77
548.52
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)**^
Term loan facility from HSBC secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHL except 
machineries and vehicles specifically financed by other banks /
financial institutions and exclusive charge cumulatively on certain 
immoveable fixed assets of IHL (Noida and Faridabad), FHTL 
(Gurugram), EHSSHL (Mohali) and HEPL (Mall Road, Ludhiana) 
with minimum assets cover of 1.25x
Repayable in equal quarterly 
instalments with starting from 
September 2024 till June 2029.
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
260.00
80.00
340.00
60.00
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
401
I. Long-term borrowings (including current maturities)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security and guarantee details
Repayment terms
Interest 
rate per 
annum
Non-
current
Current
Non-
current
Current
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)
Term loan facility from DBS secured against the first pari-passu 
charge on moveable fixed and current assets of FHL and first and 
exclusive charge on certain immoveable fixed assets of EHSSHL 
(Jaipur, Rajasthan) with minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayable in equal quarterly 
instalments till September 2025.
During the current year, the 
credit facility has been fully 
prepaid.
DBS 3/12 
months 
MCLR + 
1% margin 
or any 
other rate 
as may be 
mutually 
agreed 
upon
-
-
213.36
426.72
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)
During the current year, FHL issued 155,000 Listed Rated Senior 
Secured Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) issued to foreign 
portfolio investors and other categories of investors eligible 
under applicable law of ` 1,00,000 each. The NCDs are secured 
by a pledge over equity shares held by the Company in Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited providing a security cover of not less than 
1.33 times of the outstanding Debentures.
Redeemable in 4 non-equal 
annual instalments (including 
interest) starting from December 
2026 to December 2029
12M 
implied 
modified 
MIFOR 
+ Fixed 
Spread of 
192 bps
1,55,000.00
-
-
-
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited (HEPL) ^**
Term loan facility from The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited (“HSBC”) secured against the first pari-
passu charge on moveable fixed and current assets of HEPL and 
exclusive charge cumulatively on certain immoveable fixed assets 
of International Hospital Limited (IHL) (Noida and Faridabad), 
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL) (Gurugram), and Hospitalia 
Eastern Private Limited (HEPL) (Mall Road, Ludhiana) with 
minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayment in equal quarterly 
installments starting from 
November 2025 till August 
2029.
During the current year, ` 1,071 
Lakhs were prepaid.
The repayment of next 
installment is due in November 
2026
HSBC 3/12 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
909.00
-
1,980.00
-
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
402
I. Long-term borrowings (including current maturities)
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security and guarantee details
Repayment terms
Interest 
rate per 
annum
Non-
current
Current
Non-
current
Current
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited (HEPL) ^**
Term loan facility from The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited (“HSBC”) secured against the first pari-
passu charge on moveable fixed and current assets of HEPL and 
exclusive charge cumulatively on certain immoveable fixed assets 
of International Hospital Limited (IHL) (Noida and Faridabad), 
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL) (Gurugram), and Hospitalia 
Eastern Private Limited (HEPL) (Mall Road, Ludhiana) with 
minimum assets cover of 1.25x.
Repayment in equal quarterly 
installments starting from 
January 2026 till October 2029.
During the current year ` 625 
Lakhs were prepaid.
The repayment of next 
installment is due in January 
2026
HSBC 3 
months 
MCLR or 
any other 
rate as may 
be mutually 
agreed 
upon
1,962.92
70.85
1,998.75
-
Total (A)
207,871.53
6,209.58
73,376.38
4,503.58
B.	
VEHICLE LOAN – SECURED AGAINST HYPOTHECATION OF THE SPECIFIC VEHICLES PURCHASED
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)
Repayable in equated monthly 
instalments over 4 years.
7.00% to 
9.25% p.a.
241.51
144.78
237.00
123.03
Fortis Healthcare Limited
179.17
90.60
93.46
67.14
Fortis Hospotel Limited
96.13
57.96
111.28
43.75
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited
40.55
17.61
24.54
8.39
International Hospital Limited
-
-
9.73
3.25
Agilus Diagnostics Limited (formerly known as SRL Limited)
143.49
109.61
232.83
127.47
Total (B)
700.84
420.57
708.84
373.03
C.	
DEFERRED PAYMENT LIABILITIES - SECURED:
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)
Deferred payment facility taken from Philips India Ltd is 
secured by first charge by way of hypothecation of specific 
equipment of FHsL.
The loan is repayable in 
structured 84 monthly 
instalments commencing from 
September 2017 till August 
2024.
During the current year, the 
credit facility has been fully 
paid.
7.88% p.a. 
payable 
monthly
-
-
-
29.69
Total (C)
-
-
-
29.69
TOTAL(I=A+B+C)
208,572.37
6,630.14
74,085.22
4,906.30
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
403
	
I.	
Short term borrowings
 (` in Lakhs)
Security and guarantee details
Repayment 
terms
Interest rate
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
D. 	 Bank 
overdrafts 
& 
Working 
Capital 
Demand Loan - Secured:
	
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre 
Limited(EHIRCL)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against the 
first pari-passu over current and moveable 
fixed assets of EHIRCL both present and future 
except the machinery, vehicles specifically 
financed by other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank.
484.23
1,273.11
	
Fortis Healthcare Limited (FHL)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against the 
first pari-passu over current and moveable fixed 
assets of FHL both present and future except 
the machinery, vehicles specifically financed by 
other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
587.24
1,518.10
	
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against the 
first pari-passu over current and moveable fixed 
assets of FHsL both present and future except 
the machinery, vehicles specifically financed by 
other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
2,463.43
3,175.39
	
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL)#
	
The facility from ICICI is secured against the 
first pari-passu over moveable and current fixed 
assets of the Company both present and future 
except the machinery, vehicles specifically 
financed by other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
6M MCLR + 15 
bps or any other 
rate as may be 
mutually agreed 
with the bank
66.57
-
	
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited 
(HHPL)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against the 
first pari-passu charge on moveable fixed and 
current assets of HHPL except the machinery, 
vehicles specifically financed by other bank/
Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
-
33.56
	
International Hospital Limited (IHL)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against 
the first pari-passu charge over current and 
moveable fixed assets of the Company both 
present and future except the machinery, 
vehicles specifically financed by other bank/
Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
-
45.13
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
404
 (` in Lakhs)
Security and guarantee details
Repayment 
terms
Interest rate
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
	
International Hospital Limited (IHL)#
	
The facility from Axis Bank is secured against 
first pari passu charge on entire current assets 
and moveable fixed assets of IHL, excluding 
vehicles and medical equipment exclusively 
financed by other lenders.
On demand
Axis bank 1 
month MCLR + 
20 bps or any 
other rate as 
may be mutually 
agreed with the 
bank
5.84
15.56
	
Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL)#
	
The facility from HSBC Bank is secured against 
the first pari-passu over current and moveable 
fixed assets of FHTL both present and future 
except the machinery, vehicles specifically 
financed by other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
-
33.07
	
Fortis 
Health 
Management 
Limited 
(FHML)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against the 
first pari-passu over current and moveable fixed 
assets of FHML both present and future except 
the machinery, vehicles specifically financed by 
other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
36.52
180.25
	
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited (HEPL)#
	
The facility from HSBC is secured against the 
first pari-passu over current and moveable fixed 
assets of HEPL both present and future except 
the machinery, vehicles specifically financed by 
other bank/Financial institutions.
On demand
HSBC Bank 
Overnight 
MCLR/ 1 month 
MCLR or as may 
be agreed with 
the bank
404.29
286.16
Total(D)
4,048.13
6,560.33
E.	
Loan from a body corporate - Unsecured:
	
Fortis 
Asia 
Healthcare 
Pte. 
Limited
Interest free loan has been taken from Fortis 
Medicare International Limited.
On Demand
Interest free
280.66
277.91
Total (E)
 280.66
 277.91
TOTAL (II= D+E)
4,328.79
6,838.24
	
#The Company has filed necessary statements with banks or financial institutions which are in agreement with the books of 
accounts.
	
**The charge on immovable fixed assets of EHSSHL (Mohali) has been released by HSBC in April 2024.
	
^Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2025, the security cover for term loan facilities secured by charge over aforementioned 
immovable fixed assets has been adjusted to 1.1x from 1.25x. Further, the charge over movable fixed assets and current assets 
as security for term loan facilities stands waived
	
As described above, some companies within the Group have been sanctioned borrowings on the basis of security of current 
assets wherein the companies are required to file quarterly statements of cash flows/trade receivables/creditors/inventory. During 
the current year, the quarterly statements filed by companies with respective banks are in agreement with the books of account.
11. BORROWINGS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
405
12. COMMITMENTS
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account for
-	
Property Plant and equipment
-	
Intangible Assets
[net of capital advances of ` 9,211.27 Lakhs (as at March 31, 2024 ` 2,101.26 
Lakhs)
24,005.78
15,523.39
37,201.10
567.17
	
a.	
As part of Sponsor Agreement entered between 
The Trustee-Manager of RHT Health Trust (formerly 
known as Religare Health Trust), Fortis Global 
Healthcare Infrastructure Pte. Limited and Hospital 
Service Companies (collectively for International 
Hospital Limited, Fortis Hospotel Limited, Escorts 
Heart and Super Specialty Hospitals Limited and 
Fortis Health Management Limited) (collectively 
referred as ‘Indemnified parties’) with the Company, 
the Company has undertaken to indemnify (“Tax 
Indemnity”) each of the Hospital Services Companies 
and their respective directors, officers, employees and 
agents (the “Investing Parties”) against tax liabilities 
(including interest and penalties levied in accordance 
with the Income tax Act and any cost in relation 
thereto) which these Investing Parties may incur due 
to the non-allowance of interest on Compulsorily 
Convertible 
Debentures 
(CCDs) 
or 
Optionally 
Convertible Debentures (OCDs) in the hands of the 
Hospital service Companies. Accordingly, the Group 
has till date accrued ` 205.03 Lakhs (as at March 31, 
2024 ` 205.03 Lakhs) as provision for contingency.
	
b.	
Certain non-controlling shareholders of Agilus had the 
right to exercise a Cash Put Option on the Company 
on the occurrence of certain events as described 
in the amendment agreement to the shareholders 
agreement. As of March 31, 2024, the Company 
had recorded a cumulative liability in its consolidated 
financial 
statements 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
requirements of Ind AS 32 - “Financial Instruments: 
Presentation” with a corresponding debit to “other 
equity” for an amount of ` 169,600.00 Lakhs.
	
	
During the current year, these non- controlling 
shareholders have exercised their put option right 
and basis valuation of the put option as conducted 
by a valuer appointed by Agilus in consultation with 
said non-controlling shareholders of Agilus, the 
Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting 
held on August 30, 2024 approved acquisition of the 
stake held by these non- controlling shareholders for 
an estimated amount aggregating to ` 177,773.84 
Lakhs. Post receipt of approval from the shareholders 
of the Company and Competition Commission of 
India for this acquisition, the Company acquired 
31.21% (on dilutive basis) equity stake in Agilus from 
the aforesaid non-controlling shareholders for a total 
consideration of ` 177,773.84 Lakhs.
	
	
The funding of the acquisition was done through 
issuance of listed redeemable Non- Convertible 
Debentures aggregating to ` 155,000.00 Lakhs 
(NCDs) and remaining amount through internal 
accruals.
	
c.	
Going concern support in the form of funding and 
operational support letters has been issued by the 
Group in favor of Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited 
(Joint Venture).
	
d.	
The Group has other commitments, for purchase/
sales orders which are issued after considering 
requirements per operating cycle for purchase/sale 
of services, employee’s benefits. The Group does 
not have any long-term commitments or material 
non-cancellable contractual commitments/contracts, 
including derivative contracts for which there were 
any material foreseeable losses.
	
e.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Company or its subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company incorporated in India during the 
current or previous year.
	
f.	
Refer note 36(g)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
406
	
(In addition, refer to other litigations and claims assessed as contingent liabilities described in Note 14, 29 and 39 below)
(` in Lakhs)
Particular
As at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Income tax
159,679.53
156,049.02
Medical negligence and related
36,430.69
36,271.04
Value Added Tax and luxury tax
6,972.57
6,972.57
Customs
165.24
165.24
Service Tax & GST
15,291.44
8,026.43
Others (refer note 14 (II) (iii))
 55,543.58
54,667.46
Grand Total
 274,083.05
262,151.77
13. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (NOT PROVIDED FOR):
	
i.	
On February 28, 2019, a judgment of the Supreme 
Court of India interpreting certain statutory defined 
contribution obligations of employees and employers 
(the “India Defined Contribution Obligation”) 
altered historical understandings of such obligations, 
extending them to cover additional portions of the 
employee’s income to measure obligations under 
employees Provident Fund Act, 1952. There is 
significant uncertainty as to how the liability should 
be calculated as it is impacted by multiple variables, 
including the period of assessment, the application 
with respect to certain current and former employees 
and whether interest and penalties may be assessed. 
The Group has been legally advised not to consider 
that there are any probable obligations for periods 
prior to date of aforesaid judgment.
	
ii.	
Additionally, the Group is involved in other disputes, 
lawsuits, claims, governmental and/or regulatory 
inspections, inquiries, investigations and proceedings, 
including commercial matters that arise from time to 
time in the ordinary course of business.
	
	
The Group believes that none of the above matters, 
either individually or in aggregate, are expected 
to have any material adverse effect on its financial 
statements. The cash flows in respect of the 
above matters are determinable only on receipt of 
judgments/decisions pending at various stages/
forums. The Group has assessed that it is only 
possible but not probable, that outflow of economic 
resources will be required.
14. OTHER LITIGATIONS AND CLAIMS NOT ASSESSED 
AS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND NOT PROVIDED 
FOR, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED:
	
I.	
A Civil Suit filed by a Party (“Plaintiff”) before the 
District Court, Delhi in February 2018 against 
various entities including the Company (together 
“the defendants”) has been dismissed due to non-
prosecution on November 24, 2024. It was filed 
against the Company/ its diagnostic subsidiary & 
other entities seeking declaration that it has implied 
ownership of brands “Fortis”, “SRL” and “La-
Femme” and for restraining the defendants from 
alienating, encumbering, taking adverse action w.r.t. 
the same. Further, in the year 2018, the Company had 
received four notices from the abovenamed Plaintiff 
claiming (i) ` 180,000 thousands as per notices dated 
May 30, 2018 and June 01, 2018 (ii) ` 2,158,200 
thousands as per notice dated June 04, 2018; and 
(iii) ` 196,200 thousands as per notice dated June 
04, 2018. All these notices were responded to by 
the Company denying any liability whatsoever. The 
Learned District Court had passed an ex-parte order 
that any transaction done in favour of a third- party 
affecting interest of the Plaintiff shall be subject to 
orders passed in the civil suit. With the dismissal of 
the suit, the ex-parte order stands vacated. Also refer 
note 30.
	
	
A Third Party who had applied for being substituted 
in place of the Plaintiff, had approached the Hon’ble 
Delhi High Court for seeking certain interim reliefs 
against the Company under the provisions of The 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and had 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
407
also filed a claim for damages and injunctive reliefs 
against the Company before International Chamber 
of Commerce (ICC). The Company had invited the 
attention of ICC to the aforesaid pending litigations 
before various Courts and non-maintainability of 
claim raised by said Third party. Proceedings before 
Delhi High Court were withdrawn by Third Party on 
February 24, 2020. Further, arbitration before ICC 
had also been withdrawn by Third Party on February 
23, 2020 and the same was closed by ICC on 
February 28, 2020. The Company filed an application 
for perjury against the Third Party and other entities 
which is pending before the Delhi High Court. 
During the year ended March 31, 2022, signatories 
of Third Party to the Term Sheet dated December 6, 
2017 (‘Term Sheet’) had also filed a duly affirmed 
affidavit before Delhi High Court stating that Term 
Sheet was neither signed on behalf of the Company 
before them nor did it ever come in force.
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, another 
Party, claiming to be an assignee of the above 
named Third Party filed a case against 28 named 
defendants, including the Company and its ultimate 
parent Company IHH, and 21 non-party defendants, 
including the Company in the United States District 
Court, District of New Jersey, USA. Notice of the 
case was never served on the Company under the 
Hague Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial 
and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial 
Matters. In December 2021, a notice of this case was 
served to IHH which was subsequently disclosed by it 
to Bursa Stock Exchange, Malaysia. Company learnt 
that the case had been filed for alleged violation of, 
inter-alia, the U.S. Racketeer, Influenced and Corrupt 
Organisations Act, copyright infringement, tortious 
interference with contracts, etc. and Party had 
claimed damages in excess of US$ 6.5 Billion against 
all the defendants. Company also made disclosure 
about this case to stock exchange. Vide order dated 
September 07, 2022, case has been dismissed by 
United States District Court, New Jersey on grounds 
of forum non convenience. During the year ended 
March 31, 2024 another Party, claiming to be an 
assignee of the Third Party initiated arbitration 
proceedings wherein an ex-parte Interim Award 
was passed which was subsequently terminated 
by the Learned Arbitrator. Neither any notice nor 
any statement of claim has been received by the 
Company of the arbitration proceedings. Company 
will seek legal advice and pray for dismissal of 
this arbitration proceedings, as and when served. 
Company has filed a Civil Suit against the said third 
party and others inter alia challenging their locus and 
seeking permanent injunction against their actions, 
which is sub-judice before the Hon’ble High Court of 
Delhi.
	
	
Separately, the Third Party had also alleged rights to 
invest in the Company. It had also alleged failure on 
part of the Company to abide by the aforementioned 
Term Sheet and has claimed ownership over the 
brands as well.
	
	
Allegations made by the Third party have been duly 
responded to by the Company denying (i) execution 
of any binding agreement with the Party and (ii) 
liability of any kind whatsoever.
	
	
Based on external legal advice, the Management 
believes that the claims are without legal basis and 
are not tenable and accordingly no adjustment is 
required in the financial statements with respect to 
these claims.
	
II.	
In case of one of the subsidiaries (“Escorts Heart 
Institute and Research Centre Limited”) (‘EHIRCL’), 
that was formed after amalgamation of Escorts 
Heart Institute and Research Centre (‘EHIRC’), 
Delhi Society with EHIRC, Chandigarh Society and 
thereafter registration of EHIRC, Chandigarh Society 
as a Company:
	
	
i.	
Delhi Development Authority (‘DDA’) had 
terminated the lease deeds and allotment 
letters relating to land parcels on which a 
hospital of EHIRCL exists. The matter is currently 
pending before the Hon’ble High Court of 
Delhi. Consequent to termination, DDA issued 
show cause notice and initiated eviction 
proceedings against EHIRCL. The eviction 
proceedings initiated before the Estate Officer 
were challenged before the Hon’ble Supreme 
14. OTHER LITIGATIONS AND CLAIMS NOT ASSESSED AS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND NOT PROVIDED FOR, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE STATED: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
408
Court. Supreme Court vide its order dated 
November 14, 2019 has quashed the Show 
Cause Notice for eviction proceedings. Based on 
the external legal counsel advice, the Company 
is of the understanding that EHIRCL will be 
able to suitably defend the termination of lease 
deeds and allotment letters and accordingly 
considers that no adjustments are required to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
	
ii.	
There was a net tax demand of ` 3,421.43 Lakhs 
for earlier assessment year (` 4,748.99 Lakhs as 
at March 31, 2024) after adjusting ` 19,547.63 
Lakhs (` 18,220.07 Lakhs for March 2024) 
maintained in an escrow account out of sale 
consideration payable by the holding Company 
to the erstwhile promoters of EHIRCL. Further, 
as per the Share Purchase Agreement, one third 
of any excess of the net demand, amounting to 
` 1,140.48 Lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 1,583.00 
Lakhs) after adjusting the recovery from escrow 
account, would be borne by the said erstwhile 
promoters of EHIRCL and the rest by the 
Company. During the year ended March 31, 
2015, the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) 
decided the appeals in favor of the Company. 
Income Tax Department had filed appeals before 
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) and during 
the year ended March 31, 2020, ITAT decided 
the appeals in favor of the Company.
	
	
	
Income Tax Department has contested the 
decision of ITAT before the Hon’ble High Court 
of Delhi. During the previous year, the appeal of 
the department in respect of one of the matters 
involving an amount of ` 12,437.00 Lakhs had 
been dismissed by Hon’ble High Court. The 
Income tax department has not filed appeal 
before Hon’ble Supreme Court till date.
	
	
iii.	
In relation to the judgement of the Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi relating to provision of free 
treatment/ beds to patients of economic weaker 
section, Directorate of Health Services (‘DoHS’), 
Government of NCT of Delhi, appointed a 
Firm to calculate “unwarranted profits” arising 
to it due to alleged non-compliance. During 
the year ended March 31, 2014, the Special 
Committee of DoHS gave an intimation basis 
the calculation of the appointed Firm, which as 
per their method of calculations was ` 73,266 
Lakhs for the period 1984-85 to 2011-12 and 
sought hospital’s comments and inputs, if 
any. EHIRCL responded to the said intimation 
explaining errors and raised objections to the 
said calculations. During the year ended March 
31, 2016, EHIRCL received another notice from 
DoHS to appear for a formal and final hearing 
which raised a demand of ` 50,336 Lakhs for 
the period till FY 2006-2007, against which 
EHIRCL again responded explaining errors and 
raised objections to the calculations. During the 
quarter ended June 30, 2016, DoHS issued a 
demand notice dated June 09, 2016 directing 
EHIRCL to deposit ` 50,336 Lakhs within one 
month. EHIRCL challenged the demand notice 
by way of a writ petition in Hon’ble High 
Court of Delhi which vide order dated August 
01, 2016 set aside the demand and disposed 
off the petition of EHIRCL. DoHS agreed to 
grant hearing to EHIRCL. Hearings were held 
before DoHS and order dated May 28, 2018 
was passed imposing a demand of ` 50,336 
Lakhs. This order was challenged by EHIRCL 
before the Delhi High Court and the Court vide 
order dated June 01, 2018 had issued notice 
and directed that no coercive steps may be 
taken subject to EHIRCL depositing a sum of 
` 500 Lakhs before the concerned authority. 
EHIRCL deposited ` 500 Lakhs on June 20, 
2018. Matter is sub judice before Delhi High 
Court. Based on its internal assessment and 
advice from its counsels on the basis of the 
documents available, the Company believes 
that EHIRCL is in compliance of conditions of 
free treatment and free beds to the patients of 
economic weaker section and has a good case 
for success and expects the demand to be set 
aside. Accordingly no adjustment is required to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
14. OTHER LITIGATIONS AND CLAIMS NOT ASSESSED AS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND NOT PROVIDED FOR, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE STATED: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
409
	
III.	
In case of one of the subsidiaries (“Hiranandani 
Healthcare Private Limited”) (‘HHPL’), Navi Mumbai 
Municipal Corporation (‘NMMC’) terminated the 
Hospital lease agreement with HHPL vide order 
dated January 18, 2017 (Termination Order’) for 
certain alleged contravention of the Hospital Lease 
agreement. HHPL has filed a Writ Petition before 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India challenging the 
Termination Order. The Writ Petition has been tagged 
with Special Leave Petition (‘SLP’) which has also been 
filed by HHPL for inter alia challenging the actions 
of State Government, City Industrial Development 
Corporation and NMMC which led to the passing 
of the said Termination Order. The Hon’ble Supreme 
Court of India in the hearing held on January 30, 
2017 ordered “Status Quo’. SLP has been admitted 
on January 22, 2018 and “Status Quo” has been 
continuing. Based on external legal counsel opinion, 
management is confident that HHPL is in compliance 
of conditions of Hospital Lease Agreement and 
accordingly considers that no adjustment is required 
to these Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
IV.	
The Group has received a claim of ` 935.00 Lakhs 
from an ex-employee alleging certain dues payable 
by the Group to him in respect to his variable pay, 
provident fund and ESOPs. The ex-employee has 
also filed a similar claim of ` 1,923.04 Lakhs with 
respect to certain Technology transfer amounts 
allegedly due to him. Subsequently, the claimant has 
filed a petition with National Company Law Tribunal 
(NCLT) and revised his claim amount to ` 3,637.80 
Lakhs. The Group has filed the response to the 
petition on merits submitting that the Petition is not 
maintainable either under facts or law. Accordingly, 
no adjustment is required to these Consolidated 
Financial Statements. The matter is currently pending 
with National Company Law Tribunal.
	
V.	
Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited (formerly SRL 
Diagnostics Private Limited) has disputed the 
coverage of Employees State Insurance Corporation 
(ESIC) for period prior to FY 2005-06 for its Kolkata 
unit as “Pathlabs” were not covered for Employee 
State 
Insurance 
Corporation 
(ESIC). 
Pending 
settlement of matter, provision is recognised every 
year for the ESI liability. The same will be paid once 
the matter is settled.
	
VI.	
In connection with the brand transition in respect of 
Agilus, it is relevant to highlight that non-exclusive 
Brand License Agreement of the diagnostics business 
had expired on May 09, 2021. In May 2023, an 
application on behalf of a Judgment Debtor was filed 
in pending proceedings before Hon’ble High Court 
of Delhi, for restraining Agilus & the Company from 
abruptly dumping/discontinuing the brand ‘SRL’ 
and allied trademarks, appointment of an entity for 
valuation and sale of the ‘SRL’ and allied trademarks 
(“Former Brand”) and directing Agilus to deposit an 
appropriate amount with the Hon’ble High Court 
till the sale of the Former Brand. On May 26, 2023, 
submissions on behalf of Agilus were recorded that 
the process of brand transition had already been 
initiated by the diagnostic business since year 2020 
and it had been moving towards brand Agilus. Vide 
Order dated May 26, 2023 (May 26, Order) High 
Court directed Agilus, the Company and brand 
owner to not to act in any manner to diminish the 
value of the brand SRL. Certificate of incorporation 
was issued by Office of the Registrar of Companies, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs certifying the change 
of name from “SRL Limited” to “Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited” w.e.f. May 31, 2023. On June 02, 2023, an 
affidavit in compliance of order dated May 26, 2023 
was filed on behalf of Agilus.
	
	
On June 02, 2023, Hon’ble High Court of Delhi 
appointed M/s Konverj – Zeus as valuer for valuation 
of brand ‘SRL’. In the last week of June 2023, Decree 
Holder filed a Contempt Petition against Agilus, the 
Company and directors/KMPs of Agilus alleging that 
they have knowingly and willfully disobeyed the 
order dated May 26, 2023 passed by Hon’ble High 
Court of Delhi. No notice on this petition has been 
issued by Hon’ble Court. Affidavits have been filed 
by Agilus to support and substantiate that it is in 
compliance of the 26 May Order.
	
	
In September 2023, an ex-director of Headway 
Brands Private Limited (company which was the 
owner and licensor of the Former Brand) has filed 
an application dated September 14, 2023 before 
14. OTHER LITIGATIONS AND CLAIMS NOT ASSESSED AS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND NOT PROVIDED FOR, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE STATED: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
410
the Delhi High Court inter alia seeking payment of 
` 36,200 Lakhs (approx.) as license fee and interest 
for use of the Former Brand, and that an inquiry be 
conducted into the impact of brand transition by 
Agilus on valuation of the Former Brand. The High 
Court by its order dated September 25, 2023, while 
issuing notice on the said application recorded the 
preliminary objections of Agilus that the application 
(i) is not maintainable and (ii) Agilus and Agilus 
Pathlabs are not necessary parties to the said 
application. Notice of the said application has been 
issued by the Court to all parties named therein for 
submission of their respective responses/ objections. 
Objections have been filed by Agilus.
	
	
Court appointed valuer M/s Konverj – Zeus has filed 
its report which has been objected to by Agilus 
and an affidavit, highlighting the deficiencies and 
illegality therein has been filed by Agilus on October 
17, 2023 supported by reports of subject matter 
experts i.e. Ernst & Young and Osborne Partners 
who in their respective reports have pointed out 
that in preparation of report, M/s Konverj – Zeus has 
applied entirely incorrect and inappropriate valuation 
methodologies and has made reference to incorrect 
dates in arriving at conclusions set out in its report. 
Post the order of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court for 
public auction of SRL Brand, Court Commissioner 
has informed the Court that no prospective bidder 
turned up and the public auction of the SRL Brand 
could therefore not be completed. In August 2024, 
Decree Holder again filed an application requesting 
for auction of ‘SRL’ brand . which has been allowed 
by Court on April 21, 2025 and a court commissioner 
(Retd. District Judge) has been appointed for 
completion of auction within 6 weeks.
	
	
Further, as per the management and in consultation 
with external legal counsel it is believed that the 
Company has a strong case on merits and the 
likelihood of any impact on the financial statements 
is not expected to be material. The matter is pending 
adjudication.
15. During the earlier years, a Composite Scheme of 
Amalgamation u/s 230-232 of the Companies Act, 
2013 which provides for merger of Fortis Emergency 
Services Limited, Birdie & Birdie Realtors Private Limited, 
Fortis Health Management (East) Limited and Fortis 
Cancer Care Limited with Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL) 
(“Scheme”) (one of the wholly owned subsidiaries of the 
Company), has been approved by the Board of Directors 
and Shareholders of the Holding Company, subject 
to requisite approval(s). The respective applications 
are subject to the approval of National Company Law 
Tribunal (NCLT), Delhi and Chandigarh and proceedings 
in connection thereto are ongoing.
14. OTHER LITIGATIONS AND CLAIMS NOT ASSESSED AS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND NOT PROVIDED FOR, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE STATED: (Contd.)
16. EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN
i.	
A subsidiary (Agilus Diagnostics Limited or ‘ADL’) has provided a share-based payment scheme to the eligible employees and then 
directors of ADL, its subsidiary, Fortis Healthcare Limited (holding company) and RHC Holding Private Limited. The shareholders 
of ADL granted approval to ‘Super Religare Laboratories Limited Employee Stock Option Plan 2009’ and ‘SRL Limited Employee 
Stock Option Scheme 2013’. ADL has granted these options under Equity Settlement method and there are no conditions for 
vesting other than continued employment with the respective company. Details of these schemes are as follows:
Particulars
Grant I*
Grant II
Grant III
Grant IV
Grant V
Grant VI
Grant VII
Scheme
ESOP 2009
ESOP 2013
ESOP 2013
ESOP 2013
ESOP 2013
ESOP 2013
ESOP 2013
Date of grant
August
22, 2009
September 
30, 2013
November 
02, 2015
November 
08, 2016
March
22, 2017
May
06, 2017
August
02, 2017
Date of Board 
Approval
August
22, 2009
August
23, 2013
August
23, 2013
August
23, 2013
August
23, 2013
August
23, 2013
August
23, 2013
Date of Shareholder’s 
approval
August
17, 2009
September 
20, 2013
September 
20, 2013
September 
20, 2013
September 
20, 2013
September 
20, 2013
September 
20, 2013
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
411
Particulars
Grant I*
Grant II
Grant III
Grant IV
Grant V
Grant VI
Grant VII
Number of options 
granted
1,517,470
200,000
995,937
75,000
125,000
25,000
25,000
Number of options 
cancelled
849,545
134,000
724,437
75,000
125,000
25,000
25,000
Number of options 
exercised
154,716
66,000
-
-
-
-
-
Number of options 
not yet vested
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Number of options 
not yet exercised
513,209
-
271,500
-
-
-
-
Vesting Period
August 22, 
2009 to
August 21, 
2012
September 
30, 2016 to 
September 
30, 2018
November 
02, 2018 to 
November,01 
2020
November 
07, 2019 to 
November 
07, 2021
March 22, 
2020 to 
March 22, 
2022
May 26, 
2020 to May 
26, 2022
August 02, 
2020 to 
August 02, 
2022
Exercise Period**
Up to 
August 21, 
2019
Up to 
September 
29, 2022
Up to 
November 
01, 2022
Up to 
November 
01, 2022
Up to 
November 
01, 2022
Up to 
November 
01, 2022
Up to 
November 
01, 2022
Grant value
40
201
428
674
674
674
674
	
*On the date of transition of Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), ADL had opted for optional exemption available under Ind AS 101 
‘First time Adoption’ and not recorded any stock option outstanding account for the options fully vested (ESOP Scheme 2009) 
as at transition date.
	
The details of activity under the Plan have been summarised below:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
Options
Weighted Average 
exercise price 
(` in Lakhs)
Number of 
Options
Weighted Average 
exercise price 
(` in Lakhs)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
784,709
174.24
784,709
174.24
Granted during the year
-
-
-
-
Vested during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
Forfeited/ Cancelled during the year
-
-
-
-
Reinstated during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
784,709
174.24
784,709
174.24
Exercisable option at the end of the year
784,709
174.24
784,709
174.24
Weighted average remaining life (years)**
-
-
-
-
Range of exercise price (`)
-
40-428
-
40-428
	
**ADL has extended the exercise period of all outstanding options (Grant I, Grant III and Grant VII) till a future event occurs (i.e. 
exit of existing private equity investors or any other listing event). Further, as per the revised terms, employees due to retire or 
getting superannuated prospectively will also be entitled to exercise the options before the future event. During the current year, 
the exit of private equity investors has taken place which enable the ESOP holders to exercise their rights. ADL has extended 
the exercise period of all outstanding options for a period of 5 years from March 19, 2025 with the approval of the board of 
directors.
16. EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
412
	
There are no options granted in the current year. Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model has been used for computing the weighted 
average fair value considering the following inputs:
Particulars
Grant II
Grant III
Grant IV- V
Grant VI- VII
Vesting Schedule
100%
100%
100%
100%
Stock Price (S)
201
428
674
674
Exercise Price (X)
201
428
674
674
Volatility (s)
17.41%
15.54%
15.54%
16.19%
Risk-free Rate
8.70%
7.63%
7.63%
6.95%
Expected Option Life (T)
5yrs
5yrs
5yrs
5yrs
Dividend Yield
1.00%
0.47%
0.47%
0.47%
Option Value
66.32
135.30
213.00
202.61
Exit/Attrition Rate
16.50%
16.50%
16.50%
16.50%
Modified Option Value
55.38
112.98
177.86
169.18
17. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN:
	
Defined contribution plan:
	
The Group’s contribution towards its employee provident fund is a defined contribution retirement plan for qualifying employees. 
The provident fund contribution of certain employees of the Group is being deposited with “Fortis Healthcare Limited Provident 
Fund Trust” (till August 01, 2023) and “Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited PF Trust” (till December 01, 2024) 
which is recognised by the income tax authority (refer note below) and rest payment is made to provident fund commissioner.
	
The Group recognised ` 5,252.09 Lakhs (previous year ` 5,134.14 Lakhs) for Provident Fund, Employee state insurance and 
Superannuation fund contribution in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. The Contribution payable to the plan by 
the Group is at the rate specified in rules to the scheme.
	
Defined benefit plan
	
The Group companies have a defined benefit gratuity plan, whereby the employees are entitled to gratuity benefits based on 
last salary drawn and completed number of year of services. The gratuity plan for two subsidiaries of the Company is 100% 
funded with an insurance policy with Life Insurance Corporation of India.
	
The following table summarises the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss and the 
amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet.
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i.	
Movement in net liability
	
Present value of obligation at the beginning of the year
13,356.02
12,406.07
	
Current service cost
1,625.20
1,575.77
	
Interest cost
863.69
866.07
	
Amount recognised to OCI (actuarial (gain)/loss)
	
797.33
215.18
	
Obligation transferred (to)/ from disposal/ acquisition
(35.39)
(577.52)
	
Benefits paid
(1,763.78)
(1129.55)
	
Present value of obligations at the end of the year
14,843.07
13,356.02
	
Amounts in the balance sheet
16. EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
413
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
	
(a)	
Liabilities
14,843.07
13,356.02
	
(b)	
Assets
(658.13)
(648.24)
	
(c)	
Net liability/(asset) recognised in the balance sheet
14,184.94
12,707.78
	
Current liability
1,445.97
1,291.43
	
Non-current liability
12,738.97
11,416.35
ii.	
Change in fair value of plan assets
	
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
648.23
731.12
	
Return on plan assets
39.30
31.52
	
Contributions by employer
55.13
75.56
	
Transfer out
-
(78.60)
	
Benefit payments
(84.53)
(111.36)
	
Closing value of plan assets
658.13
648.24
iii.	
Expense recognised in statement of profit and loss is as follows:
 (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
	
Amount recognised in employee benefit expense
	
Service cost
1,625.20
1,575.77
	
Total
1,625.20
1,575.77
	
Amount recognised in finance cost
	
Interest cost
863.69
866.07
	
Total
863.69
866.07
	
Grand Total
2,488.89
2,441.84
iv.	
Expense recognised in statement of other comprehensive income is as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Net actuarial loss due to changes in demographic assumptions
(1.14)
6.06
Net actuarial loss/(gain) due to experience adjustment recognised during the year
165.16
(107.46)
Net actuarial (gain)/ loss due to assumptions changes recognised during the year
643.37
298.42
Net return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
(10.06)
18.16
(Income)/ Expense
797.33
215.18
17. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
414
	
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligation for the Group’s plan are shown below:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discounting rate (p.a.)
6.50%-6.75%
6.10%-7.40%
Expected salary increase rate (p.a.)
6.00%-8.00%
6.00%-8.00%
Withdrawal rate (p.a.)
Age up to 30 years
10.00%-36.00%
10.00%-39.00%
Age from 31 to 44 years
6.00% - 28.00%
6.00% - 26.00%
Age above 44 years
upto 18.00%
upto 16.00%
Weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation
9 years
9 years
Mortality table used
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2006-08)
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2006-08)
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The estimates of future salary increase, considered in actuarial valuation, takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
	
2.	
Significant actuarial assumption for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, expected salary 
escalation rate and withdrawal rate. The sensitivity analyses below have been determined by the actuarial based on 
reasonably possible changes of the respective assumption occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all 
other assumptions constants.
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Change in discount rate by 0.5% to 1%
3,196.94
4,588.73
3,752.70
4,211.35
Change in salary increase rate by 1%
5,088.60
2,777.33
4,632.58
3,970.22
Change in withdrawal rate by 1% to 5%
3,439.85
4,312.42
3,820.71
3,822.22
	
3.	
Certain companies within the Group have invested in the schemes with life insurance corporation of India (LIC) for the plan 
assets.
	
	
The details of investments maintained by LIC are not available and therefore have not been disclosed.
	
4.	
Expected benefit payments for the future
(` in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 2026
Year ended 
March 31, 2027
Year ended 
March 31, 2028
Year ended 
March 31, 2029
Year ended 
March 31, 2030
Year ended March 31, 2031 
to year ended 
March, 31, 2035
1,671.57
1,808.62
1,470.83
1,547.47
1,636.17
8,851.43
	
Provident Fund:
	
The Group made monthly contributions to provident fund managed by trust for qualifying employees. Such contribution for 
the current year is ` 548.22 Lakhs (previous year ` 486.85 Lakhs). Under the scheme,’ the Group was required to contribute a 
specified percentage of the payroll costs to fund the benefits. As per Ind AS 19 on “Employee Benefits”, employer established 
provident fund trusts are treated as defined benefit plans, since the Group is obliged to meet interest shortfall, if any, with 
respect to covered employees.
17. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
415
	
The holding Company has surrendered the recognition granted to PF Trust in the name of Fortis Healthcare Limited Provident 
Fund Trust (FHL PF Trust) effective August 01, 2023 and Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Employees Provident Fund 
Trust (EHIRCL PF Trust) with effect from December 01, 2024. As such, the entire corpus in respect of all the active and inactive 
employees was transferred out to the office of Regional Provident Fund Commissioner (RPFC), Delhi (South).
	
Key assumptions and other disclosures are as follows:
Assumptions:
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (p.a.)
NA
7.00% p.a.
Expected return on exempt fund
8.50% p.a.
Expected EPFO return
8.25% p.a.
Mortality rate
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2006-08) 
Ultimate
Withdrawal rate for primary categories of employees
Entity
Withdrawal Rate p.a.
Fortis Emergency Services Limited
NA
Ages From 20 – 30 
– 12.50%;
Ages From 31 and 
above – 15.00%
Others
Ages From 20 – 30 
– 18.00%;
Ages From 31 – 44 
– 6.00%;
Ages From 45 and 
above – 2.00%
The assessed actuarial liability in respect of future anticipated shortfall is as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Provident fund scheme
As at
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO)
NA
10,816.92
Fair Value of Plan Assets (FVA)
10,887.09
Funded status {Surplus/(Deficit)}
70.17
Asset allocation
Asset Category
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Government of India Securities (Central and State)
NA
49.49%
High quality corporate bonds (including Public Sector Bonds)
34.20%
Mutual Funds
11.56%
Cash (including Special Deposits)
4.75%
Total
100.00%
17. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
416
18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
	
Capital Management
	
The Group manages its capital to ensure that the Group will be able to continue as going concern while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
	
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt (borrowings, interest accrued and lease liabilities as detailed in notes 
6(xvii), 6(xviii) and 10 respectively offset by cash and cash equivalents) and total equity of the Company.
	
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements other than for covenants under various loan arrangements 
of the Group.
	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors reviews the capital structure of the Group on need basis. As part of this review, 
the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. Amongst other things, the Groups’ 
objective for capital management is to ensure that it maintains stable capital management by monitoring the financial covenants 
attached to the interest bearing loans and borrowings. The gearing ratio at March 31, 2025 is as follows:
	
Gearing ratio
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Debt*
 251,374.53
 115,770.69
Cash and cash equivalents [refer note 6(xii)]
 (13,972.26)
 (23,526.79)
Net debt
 237,402.27
 92,243.90
Total equity
 916,939.03
 855,613.77
Net debt to equity ratio
25.89%
10.78%
	
*Debt is defined as long-term and short-term borrowings (including lease liabilities, interest accrued and due on borrowings and 
excluding derivative).
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES
	
The Group’s Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international 
financial markets including market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
The Board of Directors manages the financial risk of the Group through internal risk reports which analyze exposure by magnitude 
of risk. The Group has limited exposure from the international market as the Group’s operations are primarily in India. The Group 
has limited exposure towards foreign currency risk as it earns upto 10% of its revenue in foreign currency from international 
patients. Also, capital expenditure includes capital goods purchased in foreign currency through the overseas vendors. The 
Group has not taken any significant derivative contracts to hedge the exposure. However, the exposure towards foreign currency 
fluctuation is partly hedged naturally on account of receivable from customers and payable to vendors in foreign currency.
	
Market Risk
	
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
417
	
1)	
Foreign currency risk management
	
	
The Group undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies; consequently, exposures to exchange rate 
fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters.
	
	
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the end of 
the reporting period are as follows:
 (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Foreign 
Currency
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Foreign 
Currency
`
Foreign 
Currency
`
Amount
Amount
Trade payables
US$
1.25
106.75
4.01
334.32
EURO
0.10
9.23
-
-
AED
7.01
163.10
-
-
Cash and bank balances
US$
2.22
189.97
3.01
250.88
SGD
1.03
65.72
18.38
1,134.17
Cash and bank balances
AED
10.00
232.69
0.01
0.13
LKR
2.57
0.75
43.58
12.10
Trade receivables
US$
18.25
1,559.76
28.43
2,370.86
AED
5.38
125.23
-
-
Loan Payables (Borrowings)
AED
5.96
138.70
5.96
135.33
	
	
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
	
	
The group is mainly exposed to US$, SGD, EURO, LKR & AED currency. The following table details the Group’s sensitivity 
to a 5% increase and decrease in ` against each foreign currency. 5% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign 
currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible 
change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary 
items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 5% change in foreign currency rates. This analysis assumes that 
all other variables, in particular, interest rates, remain constant. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit 
or equity where the Rupee strengthens 5% against the relevant currency. For a 5% weakening of the Rupee against the 
relevant currency, there would be a comparable impact on the profit or equity, and the balances below would be negative.
	
	
If increase by 5%
(` in Lakhs)
Currency
Increase/(decrease) in profit or loss for 
the year
Increase/(decrease) in total equity
As at
As at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
US$
(82.15)
(114.37)
 (61.47)
(74.41)
SGD
(3.29)
(56.71)
 (2.46)
(36.89)
AED
(2.81)
6.76
 (2.10)
4.40
LKR
(0.04)
(0.6)
 (0.03)
(0.39)
EURO
0.46
-
 0.35
-
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
418
	
	
If decrease by 5%
(` in Lakhs)
Currency
Increase/(decrease) in profit or loss for 
the year
Increase/(decrease) in total equity
As at
As at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
US$
82.15
114.37
 61.47
74.41
SGD
3.29
56.71
 2.46
36.89
AED
2.81
(6.76)
 2.10
(4.40)
LKR
0.04
0.6
 0.03
0.39
EURO
(0.46)
-
 (0.35)
-
	
	
Foreign exchange derivative and non-derivative financial instruments
	
	
The Group uses derivative for hedging financial risks that arise from its commercial business activities. The Group’s 
Corporate Treasury team manages its foreign currency risk by hedging transactions that are expected to occur within 12 
months for hedges of forecasted purchases and capital expenditures. When a derivative is entered into for the purpose of 
being a hedge, the Group negotiates the terms of those derivatives to match the terms of the hedged exposure. For hedges 
of forecast transactions the derivatives cover the period of exposure from the point the cash flows of the transactions are 
forecasted up to the point of settlement of the resulting payable that is denominated in the foreign currency. All identified 
exposures are managed as per the policy duly approved by the Board of Directors.
	
	
The following table details the foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at the end of the reporting period:
Outstanding Contracts*
Maturity
No. of Deals
Contract value of 
foreign Currency
Up to 12 months
More than 
12 months
(` In Lakhs) **
Nominal Amount*
Nominal Amount*
(` In Lakhs)
(` In Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2025
US$/` Buy forward
7
2,352.75
2,382.89
-
EUR/` Buy forward
1
109.89
110.58
-
US$/` Buy forward
5
1,871.14
1,874.27
-
	
	
*Computed using average forward contract rates.
	
	
**Sensitivity on the above forward contracts in respect of foreign currency exposure is insignificant.
	
	
Currency Option Contracts
	
	
The Group uses currency options for hedging financial risks that arise from its commercial business activities. The Group 
manages its foreign currency risk by hedging transactions that are expected to occur for hedges of forecasted purchases 
and capital expenditures. When a contract is entered into for the purpose of being a hedge, the Group negotiates the 
terms of those contracts to match the terms of the hedged exposure. For hedges of forecast transactions, the derivatives 
cover the period of exposure from the point the cash flows of the transactions are forecasted up to the point of settlement 
of the resulting payable that is denominated in the foreign currency.
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
419
	
	
The following table details the option contracts outstanding at the end of the reporting period:
	
	
The Group had entered into option contracts with Axis Bank for purchase of machinery (MR-Linac) of which contract 
amounting to US$ 16.50 Lakhs has expired on January 29, 2024.
Outstanding Contracts
No. of Deals Option premium paid
(In Lakhs)
Nominal Amount
(US$ In Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2024
US$/` Buy Option
1
56.10
16.50
US$/` Buy Option
1
53.29
16.50
	
	
Interest rate risk management
	
	
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because Group borrows funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. The 
interest rate on the Group’s financial instruments is based on market rates. The Company monitors the movement in 
interest rates on an ongoing basis.
	
	
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
	
	
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the end of the reporting 
period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the end of 
the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50-basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting 
interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably 
possible change in interest rates.
(` in Lakhs)
If increase by 50 basis point
Interest impact
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Increase/(decrease) in profit or loss for the year
 (1,091.19)
(422.84)
Increase/(decrease) in total equity
 (816.56)
(275.09)
If decrease by 50 basis point
Interest impact
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Increase/(decrease) in profit or loss for the year
 1,091.19
422.84
Increase/(decrease) in total equity
 816.56
275.09
	
	
Credit risk management
	
	
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the 
Group. The Group takes due care while extending any credit as per the approval matrix approved by the Board of Directors.
	
	
Refer note 6(v) of the consolidated financial statements for carrying amount and maximum credit risk exposure for trade 
receivables.
	
	
Reconciliation of loss allowance measured at lifetime for credit impaired financial assets other than trade receivables.
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
420
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
53,584.55
53,619.95
Loss allowance recognised/ (utilised)
(245.26)
(35.40)
Balance at the end of the year
53,339.29
53,584.55
	
	
The Group held cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances of ` 50,799.25 Lakhs at March 31, 2025 (March 
31, 2024: ` 59,839.64 Lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances are held with bank and financial 
institution counterparties, which have high credit ratings assigned by credit-rating agencies.
	
	
The Group considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the 
counterparties. The Group uses a similar approach for assessment of ECLs for cash and cash equivalents to those used for 
debt securities.
	
	
Liquidity risk management
	
	
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has established an appropriate 
liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short-term, medium-term and long-term funding 
and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking 
facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, and by matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Note given below sets out details of additional undrawn facilities that the 
Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Sanctioned limit
Undrawn limit
HSBC Bank (Term Loan)
 41,035.92
 15,055.00
HSBC Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 24,100.00
 20,121.80
DBS Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 2,700.00
 2,700.00
AXIS Bank (Term Loan)
 27,443.25
 8,145.00
AXIS Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 9,000.00
 8,903.13
ICICI Bank (Term Loan)
 13,875.02
 -
ICICI Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 1,500.00
 1,435.98
IDBI Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 2,500.00
 2,500.00
Others Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 200.00
 200.00
Grand Total
 122,354.19
 59,060.91
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
421
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Sanctioned limit
Undrawn limit
HSBC Bank (Term Loan)
 64,478.27
 15,215.00
HSBC Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 23,100.00
 14,906.21
DBS Bank (Term Loan)
 3,266.53
 -
DBS Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 2,700.00
2,700.00
Axis Bank (Term Loan)
 28,331.25
 8,145.00
Axis Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 9,000.00
 8,900.89
Kotak Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 100.00
 100.00
ICICI (Term Loan)
15,000.00
-
ICICI (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
1,500.00
1,500.00
Other Bank (Term Loan)
 1,122.49
 -
Others Bank (Overdraft/ Short Term Loan)
 100.00
 100.00
Grand Total
148,698.54
51,567.10
	
	
Liquidity and interest risk
	
	
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed 
repayment periods. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on 
the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
	
	
The Group has funds available of ` 50,799.25 Lakhs (gross of bank and book overdraft) and unutilised borrowing facilities 
sanctioned by banks amounting to ` 59,060.91 Lakhs.
	
	
The tables include both interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are at floating rate, the 
undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the end of the reporting period.
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Within 
1 year
More than 
1 year
Total
Carrying 
amount
As at March 31, 2025
Borrowings (current and non-current)
25,454.84
252,216.22
277,671.06
219,531.30
Lease liabilities (current and non-current)
7,611.39
30,836.62
38,448.01
27,979.58
Trade payables
80,761.53
-
80,761.53
80,761.53
Other financial liabilities (current and non-current)
38,017.69
75.05
38,092.74
38,092.74
Total
151,845.45
283,127.89
434,973.34
366,365.15
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Within 
1 year
More than 
1 year
Total
Carrying 
amount
As at March 31, 2024
Borrowings (current and non-current)
18,197.49
90,951.13
1,09,148.62
85,829.76
Lease liabilities (current and non-current)
7,418.51
37,140.00
44,558.51
29,671.96
Trade payables
72,779.19
-
72,779.19
72,779.19
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
422
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Within 
1 year
More than 
1 year
Total
Carrying 
amount
As at March 31, 2024
Other financial liabilities (current and non-current) 
other than put option
32,308.60
80.05
32,388.65
32,388.65
Put option [refer note 12(b)]
1,69,600.00
-
1,69,600.00
1,69,600.00
Total
3,00,303.79
1,28,171.18
4,28,474.97
3,90,269.56
	
	
The Group has a secured bank loan that contains a loan covenant. A future breach of covenant may require the Group 
to repay the loan earlier than indicated in the above table. Borrowings from Axis Bank Limited, DBS Bank Limited, HSBC 
Bank Limited and ICICI Bank Limited will become repayable on demand if the Group’s EBITDA to loan ratio exceeds 4. 
Additionally, for facility from ICICI Bank, Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) for Fortis Hospitals Limited should be more 
than/equal to 1.1x. Under the agreements, the covenants are monitored on a regular basis by the treasury department and 
regularly reported to management to ensure compliance with the agreements.
	
	
The debentures shall become immediately due for redemption if the Company’s net external debt to EBITDA ratio exceeds 
4x or in case the Company incurs any financial indebtedness other than the permitted indebtedness as per debenture trust 
deed.
20. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in 
the fair value hierarchy.
	
As at March 31, 2025
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Carrying Value
Fair value 
measurement 
using
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss (FVTPL)
Amortised 
cost
Total
Level 3
Financial assets
Loans (non-current)
(b)
-
229.06
229.06
-
Other financial assets (non-current)
(b)
-
5,640.59
5,640.59
-
Trade receivables (including unbilled receivables)
(a)
-
78,448.82
78,448.82
-
Cash and cash equivalents
(a)
-
13,972.26
13,972.26
-
Other bank balances
(a)
-
36,826.99
36,826.99
-
Loans (current)
(a)
-
175.47
175.47
-
Other financial assets (current)
(d)/(a)
0.42
1,079.60
1,080.02
0.42
Total
0.42
136,372.79
136,373.21
0.42
19. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
423
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Carrying Value
Fair value 
measurement 
using
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss (FVTPL)/ 
equity
Amortised 
cost
Total
Level 3
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings – non-current
(c)
-
208,572.37
208,572.37
-
Borrowings – current
(a)
-
10,958.93
10,958.93
-
Lease liabilities – non-current
(e)
-
22,560.11
22,560.11
-
Lease liabilities – current
(e)
-
5,419.47
5,419.47
-
Trade payables – current
(a)
-
80,761.53
80,761.53
-
Other financial liabilities – non-current
(a)
-
75.05
75.05
-
Other financial liabilities – current
(b)/ (d)
30.42
37,987.27
38,017.69
30.42
Total
30.42
366,334.73
366,365.15
30.42
	
As at March 31, 2024
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Carrying Value
Fair value 
measurement 
using*
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss (FVTPL)
Amortised 
cost
Total
Level 3
Loans (non-current)
(b)
-
148.27
148.27
-
Other financial assets (non-current)
(b)
-
5,340.05
5,340.05
-
Trade receivables (including unbilled receivables)
(a)
-
62,782.94
62,782.94
-
Cash and cash equivalents
(a)
-
23,526.79
23,526.79
-
Other bank balances
(a)
-
36,312.85
36,312.85
-
Loans (current)
(a)
-
158.34
158.34
-
Other financial assets (current)
(d)/(a)
62.82
3,700.23
3,763.05
62.82
Total
62.82
1,31,969.47
1,32,032.29
62.82
20. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
424
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Carrying Value
Fair value 
measurement 
using*
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss (FVTPL)/ 
equity
Amortised 
cost
Total
Level 3
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings – non-current
(c)
-
74,085.22
74,085.22
-
Borrowings – current
(a)
-
11,744.54
11,744.54
-
Lease liabilities – non-current
(e)
-
24,496.96
24,496.96
-
Lease liabilities – current
(e)
-
5,175.00
5,175.00
-
Trade payables – current
(a)
-
72,779.19
72,779.19
-
Other financial liabilities – non-current
(a)
-
80.05
80.05
-
Other financial liabilities – current
(b)/ (d)
1,69,601.10
32,307.50
2,01,908.60
1,69,601.10
Total
1,69,601.10
2,20,668.46
3,90,269.56
1,69,601.10
	
The following methods/assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
	
(a)	
Fair valuation of financial assets and liabilities with short term maturities is considered as approximate to respective carrying 
amount due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
	
(b)	
Fair valuation of non-current financial assets and liabilities has been disclosed to be same as carrying value as there is no 
significant difference between carrying value and fair value.
	
(c)	
The Group’s borrowings have been contracted at floating rates of interest, which are reset at short intervals. Accordingly, 
the carrying value of such borrowings (including interest accrued but not due) approximates fair value.
	
(d)	
The fair value is based on mark to market value as provided by the issuing banks.
	
(e)	
Fair value measurement of lease liabilities is not required to be disclosed.
	
	
There are no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
	
	
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
	
	
The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost in the financial statements are 
a reasonable approximation of their fair values since the Group does not anticipate that the carrying amounts would be 
significantly different from the values that would eventually be received or settled.
	
	
Valuation technique used to determine fair value of Put option liability (Other financial liabilities):
	
	
The management had used the average Comparable Companies Quoted Multiple Method (CCM) and Discounted Cash 
Flow Method (DCF) for determining the fair value of the put option in the previous year. Also refer note 12(b)
	
	
The key assumptions used in the estimation of fair value were as follows:
	
	
i)	
CCM approach: Fair value of the instrument is the value of Enterprise value/ Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EV/ EBITDA) multiple. As at March 31, 2024, the weighted average EV/ EBITDA multiple has been 
determined at 26.7x .
20. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
425
	
	
ii)	
DCF approach: Fair value of the instrument is the value of discounted cash flow based on financial budgets approved 
by management. Key assumptions used for value in use calculations are as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2024
Compound average net sales growth rate (p.a.)
7%
EV/ EBITDA multiple used for terminal value
26.70x
Discount rate (p.a.)
15.41%
	
	
	
Management has identified that a reasonable possible change in the key assumptions could cause a change in fair 
value of the instrument.
	
	
	
The following table shows the amount by which the fair value would change on change in this assumption, all other 
factors remaining constant.
(` in Lakhs)
Increase/ (decrease) in fair value
As at
March 31, 2024
EV/ EBITDA multiple
Increase by 1x
5,800.00
Decrease by 1x
(5,800.00)
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
(3,277.00)
Decrease by 1%
3,449.00
	
	
	
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
	
	
	
The following table presents the changes in level 3 items for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Put option
As at April 01, 2023
159,100.00
Revaluation during the year
10,500.00
As at March 31, 2024
169,600.00
Revaluation during the year
 8,173.84
Settlement during the year [refer note 12 b]
 (177,773.84)
As at March 31, 2025
 -
20. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
426
21. NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
	
The following table summarises the information relating to each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has material NCI, before any 
intra-group eliminations:
	
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Agilus Group
Malar Group
Other 
individually 
immaterial 
subsidiaries
Total
NCI Percentage (refer note 12(b))
11.68%
37.29%
(a)
Non-current assets
201,310.27
272.04
(b)
Current assets
57,335.92
3,411.16
(c)
Non-current liabilities
26,375.53
-
(d)
Current liabilities
25,190.60
662.29
Net assets
207,080.06
3,020.91
Net assets attributable to NCI/
accumulated NCI
24,186.95
1,128.31
(27.77)
25,287.49
(a)
Revenue
140,673.98
271.72
-
-
(b)
Profit for the year
9,754.10
39.20
-
-
(c)
Other comprehensive income for the year
(122.51)
-
-
-
(d)
Total comprehensive income for the year
9,631.59
39.20
-
-
(e)
Profit allocated to NCI*
3,502.32
14.62
-
-
(f)
OCI allocated to NCI
(30.64)
-
-
-
-
-
(a)
Cash flows from/ (used in) operating activities
25,625.43
154.42
-
-
(b)
Cash flows from/ (used in) investment activities
(19,057.67)
(2,909.82)
-
-
(c)
Cash flows from/ (used in) financing activities 
(dividends to NCI: nil)
(6,767.78)
(7,965.24)
-
-
(d)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
(200.02)
(10,720.64)
-
-
*During the year, the Company has acquired additional stake of 31.21% (on dilutive basis) in Agilus Group. Accordingly, share 
of profit of NCI has been allocated proportionately till date of respective acquisitions. Also refer note 12(b).
	
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
 Agilus Group
 Malar Group
 Other 
individually 
immaterial 
subsidiaries
 Total
NCI Percentage
42.89%
37.29%
(a)
Non-current assets
2,02,239.78
258.39
(b)
Current assets
49,680.75
11,329.21
(c)
Non-current liabilities
25,250.50
-
(d)
Current liabilities
27,864.01
635.78
Net assets
1,98,806.02
10,951.82
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
427
Particulars
 Agilus Group
 Malar Group
 Other 
individually 
immaterial 
subsidiaries
 Total
Net assets attributable to NCI/
accumulated NCI
85,267.90
4,083.95
(27.77)
89,324.08
(a)
Revenue
1,39,167.74
6,802.48
-
-
(b)
Profit for the year
6,690.12
4,733.06
-
-
(c)
Other comprehensive income for the year
(104.66)
(2.77)
-
-
(d)
Total comprehensive income for the year
6,585.46
4,730.29
-
-
(e)
Profit allocated to NCI
2,869.39
1,764.97
-
-
(f)
OCI allocated to NCI
(44.89)
(1.03)
-
-
-
-
(a)
Cash flows from/ (used in) operating activities
11,317.55
(730.29)
-
-
(b)
Cash flows from/ (used in) investment activities
(7,499.81)
11,970.29
-
-
(c)
Cash flows from/ (used in) financing activities 
(dividends to NCI: nil)
(7,287.90)
(1,085.19)
-
-
(d)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
(3,470.16)
10,154.81
-
-
	
Agilus Group includes the following entities:
	
(a)	
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
	
(b)	
Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited
	
(c)	
Agilus Pathlab Reach Limited
	
(d)	
Agilus Diagnostics FZ-LLC
	
(e)	
DDRC Agilus Pathlabs Limited
	
Malar Group includes the following entities:
	
(a)	
Fortis Malar Hospital Limited
	
(b)	
Malar Star Medicare Limited
22. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
	
(a)	
The Company through its subsidiary Fortis Healthcare International Pte. Ltd. bought 64,120,915 shares @ 62 LKR total value 
in ` 19,762.82 Lakhs in year ended March 31, 2012 representing 28.60% of total equity of Lanka Hospital Corporation 
Plc, which is listed in Lanka Stock exchange.
	
	
During the current and previous year, the management of the Group performed an impairment test for the carrying value 
of its investment in associate in Lanka Hospital Corporation Plc. The carrying value of its investment as on March 31, 2024 
was ` 18,082.02 Lakhs in the consolidated financial statements post impairment recorded in earlier years of ` 2,241.69 
Lakhs. An impairment loss of ` 7,434.55 Lakhs (previous year reversal of impairment loss of ` 888.97 Lakhs) has been 
recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025 to reflect the said carrying value to its likely recoverable value based on the 
published price quotation (Level 1 Fair value) as at March 31, 2025.
	
(b)	
On March 31, 2023, the Board of directors of the Company gave their consent to sell/transfer/dispose-off Arcot Road 
Hospital, Chennai as a going concern/on slump sale basis on “as is where is” basis on such terms and conditions as per 
the draft business transfer agreement and with closure of points under discussion. During the previous year, based on the 
final business transfer agreement with Sri Kauvery Medical Care (India) Limited, the Company consummated transaction 
for a sale consideration of ` 15,200 Lakhs (excluding other charges) and recorded an exceptional gain of ` 349.29 Lakhs. 
Also refer note 35(a).
21. NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
428
	
(c)	
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Fortis Hospitals Limited has invested (Equity and loan) in Fortis C-Doc 
Healthcare Limited which is a joint venture in which Fortis holds 60% stake at an amount of ` 622.85 Lakhs through 
equity shares, ` 1,300 Lakhs through Optionally Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares and amount of ` 168.33 Lakhs 
towards interest accrued. These amounts were impaired in earlier years.
	
	
During the current year, the Company received an amount of ` 88.33 Lakhs (previous year ` 80.00 Lakhs) against the 
interest which was impaired earlier and recorded the same as an exceptional gain.
	
(d)	
During the previous year, Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited (“Malar”), Fortis Health Management Limited (“FHML”) and 
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited, step down subsidiaries of the Company entered into Business Transfer Agreement 
(“BTA”)/ Agreement to Sell (“ATS”) with MGM Healthcare Private Limited (“MGM”) for divestment of business operations 
pertaining to Malar Hospital (which also inter alia include land and building on which Malar Hospital is situated) and 
adjoining vacant lands. Based on the approval of the shareholders of Malar, FHML, HEPL and the Company, the transactions 
were consummated during the previous year.
	
	
Based on the above, an exceptional gain of ` 283.48 Lakhs was recorded in the previous year. Also refer note 35(b).
	
(e)	
During earlier years, the Management had performed an impairment test for the carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment, intangible assets and goodwill for Faridabad hospital (CGU). The recoverable value determined based on 
discounted cash flows was lower than the remaining carrying value of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets 
and goodwill and an impairment loss of ` 1,879.12 Lakhs (including ` 323.05 Lakhs on goodwill) had been recognised for 
the year ended March 31, 2019.
	
	
During the current year, the Company has reversed impairment loss of `. 286.15 Lakhs on property, plant and equipment 
(net of subsequent depreciation, recognised that would have been recognised if impairment had not been recognised 
earlier) based on improved performance and increase in recoverable value determined on the basis of discounted cash 
flows of the CGU.
	
	
The recoverable amount of this CGU is based on value-in-use calculations which uses discounted cash flow projections. The 
fair value measurement has been categorised as Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
	
	
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below. The values assigned to the 
key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant industries and have been based on 
historical data from both external and internal sources.
(In percentage) (p.a.)
March 31, 2025
Discount rate
11.31
Terminal value growth rate
4.00
Compound average net sales growth rate
7.41
Management believes that any reasonable possible change in any of these assumptions would not impact reversal of 
impairment.
	
(f)	
Based on indicators of impairment, the management performed an impairment test for the carrying value of property, 
plant and equipment and intangible assets for Ludhiana hospital. The recoverable value determined based on discounted 
cash flows is lower than the remaining carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. Accordingly, 
impairment loss of ` 4,223.99 Lakhs has been recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
The recoverable amount of this CGU is based on value-in-use calculations which use discounted cash flow projections. The 
fair value measurement has been categorised as Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
	
	
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below. The values assigned to the 
key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant industries and have been based on 
historical data from both external and internal sources.
22. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
429
(In percentage) (p.a.)
March 31, 2025
Discount rate
12.26
Terminal value growth rate
4.00
Compound average net sales growth rate
10.32
The discount rate is a post-tax measure estimated based on the historical industry’s average weighted-average cost of 
capital.
	
	
Management has identified that a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions could cause a change in the amount 
of impairment reversal. The following table shows the amount by which the impairment loss/ (reversal) would change on 
change in these assumptions, all other factors remaining constant.
(` in Lakhs)
Increase/ (decrease) in impairment loss
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
12.04
Decrease by 1%
(15.35)
Terminal value growth rate
Increase by 2%
(22.44)
Decrease by 2%
13.69
23. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
	
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules therein, some of the Companies within the Group are required 
to spend at least 2% of average net profit of the past three years towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Details of 
corporate social responsibility expenditures as certified by Management are as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(i)	
Amount required to be spent by the Group during the year as approved by 
board
1,476.64
1,177.45
(ii)	
Amount of expenditure incurred, (includes administrative expenses of 
` 19.49 Lakhs (Previous year ` 18.20 Lakhs)
1,476.64
1,177.45
(iii)	 Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
(iv)	 Total of previous years shortfall
-
-
(v)	
Reason for shortfall
-
-
(vi)	 Nature of CSR activities undertaken by the Company
As per below note
As per below note
(vii)	 details of related party transactions, e.g, contribution to a trust controlled 
by the Company in relation to CSR expenditure as per relevant accounting 
standard,
-
Donation to Fortis 
CSR Foundation 
of ` 50.00 Lakhs 
for Mamta Health 
Institute
	
Note: The Group has contributed to below CSR activities during the year ended March 31, 2025:
22. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
430
	
•	
Contribution to Yuva Unstoppable engaged in Education Sector and New Partner School (for educational related activities).
	
•	
Contributed to Society of Community Oriented Operational Links (SCHOOL) under the theme of Primary Healthcare 
Upgrade, the focus is on elevating healthcare facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs).
	
•	
Contribution to Healthcare Federation of India and Sattva Media and Consulting Private Limited.
	
•	
Donated one Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) ambulances to the authorities in the district of Thiruvananthapuram to 
enhance the healthcare capabilities within the district, supporting prompt and effective emergency responses.
	
•	
Stipend to National apprenticeship promotion scheme (NAPS) trainees.
	
•	
Contributed to IIT Madras engaged in education sector.
	
Note: The Group has contributed to below CSR activities during the year ended March 31, 2024:
	
•	
Contribution to Buddy4study India Foundation, Yuva Unstoppable engaged in Education Sector and Mamta Health Institute 
for Mother and Child (through Fortis CSR Foundation) (for educational related activities).
	
•	
Contributed to Society of Community Oriented Operational Links (SCHOOL) under the theme of Primary Healthcare 
Upgrade, the focus is on elevating healthcare facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs).
	
•	
Contribution to Healthcare Federation of India, Lord Education and Health Society, American Indian Foundation, PM Care 
and Sattva Media and Consulting Private Limited.
	
•	
Donated one Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) ambulance and two Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) ambulances to 
the authorities in the district of Thiruvananthapuram to enhance the healthcare capabilities within the district, supporting 
prompt and effective emergency responses.
	
•	
Stipend to National apprenticeship promotion scheme (NAPS) trainees.
	
•	
Contribution to Indian Council of Medical Research
24. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during earlier years were carried out through 
Fortis Charitable Foundation (FCF) (erstwhile promoter entity) with whom dealings have been stopped.
	
Amounts were paid by the Company and its subsidiaries to FCF for CSR activities. FCF was required to utilise the money so 
received strictly in various CSR programs.
	
However, there are unutilised amounts lying with FCF related to periods before March 31, 2018, which have not been spent and 
neither refunded by FCF despite several reminders and notices. Accordingly, civil recovery action has been initiated for recovery 
of unutilised amount of ` 182.00 Lakhs during the year ended March 31, 2021.
25. The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the Group 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and has invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under active consideration by 
the Ministry. The Group will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified and will give appropriate 
impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the 
financial impact are published.
23. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
431
26. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS TO SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013:
(` in Lakhs)
S. 
No. Name of the entity
Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in PAT
Share in OCI
Share in TCI
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net PAT
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
TCI
Amount
Parent
Fortis Healthcare Limited
101.77%
907,400.25
7.88%
6,378.44
41.22%
(145.08)
7.73%
6,233.36
Subsidiaries
Indian
1
Escorts Heart Institute And Research 
Centre Limited
7.84%
69,910.72
4.36%
3,529.15
1.65%
(5.79)
4.37%
3,523.36
2
Fortis Hospitals Limited
0.85%
7,588.24
0.63%
50,837.87
65.25%
(229.64)
0.63%
50,608.23
3
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
0.34%
2,996.41
0.00%
41.00
0.00%
-
0.00%
41.00
4
Malar Stars Medicare Limited
0.00%
29.50
(0.00)%
(1.81)
0.00%
-
0.00%
(1.81)
5
Fortis HealthStaff Limited
(0.19)%
(1,698.41)
(0.16)%
(127.69)
0.00%
-
(0.16)%
(127.69)
6
Fortis Lafemme Limited
(0.01)%
(107.00)
0.00%
31.45
0.00%
-
0.00
31.45
7
Fortis Cancer Care Limited
(0.57)%
(5,119.80)
(0.51)%
(416.81)
0.00%
-
(0.52)%
(416.81)
8
Fortis Health Management (East) 
Limited
(0.18)%
(1,642.62)
(0.16)%
(132.81)
0.00%
-
(0.16)%
(132.81)
9
Hiranandani Healthcare Private Limited
0.89%
7,897.17
0.01%
851.34
1.82%
(6.42)
1.05%
844.92
10
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
15.71%
140,040.51
0.03%
2,703.21
0.13%
(45.03)
3.30%
2,658.18
11
Agilus Pathlabs Private Limited
2.34%
20,896.67
0.03%
2,679.61
0.12%
(43.13)
3.27%
2,636.48
12
Agilus Pathlabs Reach Limited
0.04%
363.84
0.00%
208.34
0.02%
(6.80)
0.25%
201.54
13
DDRC Agilus Diagnostics Limited
2.56%
22,856.85
0.08%
6,348.89
0.19%
(67.98)
7.79%
6,280.91
14
Birdie and Birdie Realtors Private 
Limited
(1.64)%
(14,626.15)
(0.27)%
(221.76)
0.00%
-
(0.28)%
(221.76)
15
Stellant Capital Advisory Services 
Private Limited
0.35%
3,104.80
(0.31)%
(246.96)
1.97%
(6.93)
(0.32)%
(253.89)
16
Fortis Hospotel Limited
32.28%
287,785.47
0.30%
24,382.18
5.89%
(20.72)
30.23%
24,361.46
17
Fortis Emergency Services Limited
(1.12)%
(9,993.04)
(1.11)%
(902.35)
0.00%
-
(1.12)%
(902.35)
18
Escort Heart and Super Speciality 
Hospital Limited
2.43%
21,646.31
0.03%
2,237.34
2.97%
(10.46)
2.76%
2,226.88
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
432
(` in Lakhs)
S. 
No. Name of the entity
Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in PAT
Share in OCI
Share in TCI
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net PAT
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
TCI
Amount
19
International Hospital Limited
15.89%
141,708.17
0.15%
12,275.82
6.35%
(22.34)
15.21%
12,253.48
20
Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited
(2.93)%
(26,169.28)
(9.02)%
(7,299.81)
0.05%
(0.19)
(9.06)%
(7,300.00)
21
Fortis Health Management Limited
2.12%
18,879.71
(1.15)%
(931.68)
(4.12)%
14.49
(1.14)%
(917.19)
22
Artistery Properties Private Limited
0.10%
906.15
(0.26)%
(210.16)
0.00%
-
(0.26)%
(210.16)
Foreign
23
Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte Limited
(12.78)% (113,911.45)
(0.59)%
(476.76)
(6.13)%
21.59
(0.56)%
(455.17)
24
Fortis Healthcare International Limited
(0.08)%
(755.20)
(0.07)%
(54.72)
(8.36)%
29.41
(0.03)%
(25.31)
25
Fortis Global Healthcare (Mauritius) 
Limited
(5.15)%
(45,929.43)
(2.01)%
(1,630.47)
310.49%
(1,092.76)
(3.38)%
(2,723.23)
26
Agilus Diagnostics FZ-LLC
(0.14)%
(1,281.22)
0.00%
109.72
16.79%
(59.11)
0.00%
50.61
27
Mena Healthcare Investment Company 
Limited
(0.11)%
(967.21)
-
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
28
Medical Management Company 
Limited
0.10%
850.23
-
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
29
RHT Health Trust Manager Pte Ltd
1.05%
9,349.76
(0.24)%
(197.58)
0.03%
(8.89)
(0.26)%
(206.47)
Associates (investment as per the 
equity method)
Foreign
1
RHT Health Trust
0.30%
2,680.65
-
-
(4.39)%
15.45
0.00%
15.45
2
Lanka Hospitals Corporate Plc
1.57%
13,967.12
0.01%
1,152.79
(56.62)%
199.29
0.02%
1,352.08
Joint Ventures (as per the equity 
method)
Indian
1
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited
0.00%
-
-
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
2
Fortis Cauvery
0.01%
53.81
-
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
Foreign
1
SRL Diagnostics Nepal Private Limited
0.03%
249.82
(0.00)%
(0.50)
0.00%
-
(0.00)%
(0.50)
Consolidation adjustments
(63.62)% (567,309.80)
(24.68)%
(19,976.82)
(323.65)%
1,139.10
(23.38)%
(18,837.72)
Total
100.00%
891,651.54
100.00%
80,938.46
100.00%
(351.95)
100.00%
80,586.51
26. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS TO SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
433
(` in Lakhs)
S. 
No. Name of the entity
Net assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in PAT
Share in OCI
Share in TCI
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net PAT
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
TCI
Amount
Non-controlling interests in all 
subsidiaries
Indian
1
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited
0.13%
1,117.29
0.02%
15.29
0.00%
-
0.00
15.29
2
Malar Star Medicare Limited
0.00%
11.01
0.00%
(0.67)
0.00%
-
0.00%
(0.67)
3
Agilus Diagnostics Limited
2.71%
24,186.96
4.33%
3,502.32
8.71%
(30.64)
4.31%
3,471.68
Foreign
4
Mena Healthcare Investment Company 
Limited, and
Medical Management Company 
Limited
(0.00)%
(27.77)
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
Total
25,287.49
3,516.94
(30.64)
3,486.30
26. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS TO SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
434
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
	
A.	
Background
	
	
(i)	
During the year ended March 31, 2018, there 
were reports in the media and enquiries from, 
inter alia, the stock exchanges received by 
the Company about certain inter- corporate 
loans given by a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company. The erstwhile Audit and Risk 
Management Committee of the Company 
decided to carry out an independent investigation 
through an external legal firm on this matter. 
The terms of reference of the investigation, 
inter alia, comprised: (i) ICDs amounting to a 
total of ` 49,414 Lakhs (principal), placed by 
the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, FHsL, 
with three borrowing companies as on July 
1, 2017; (ii) the assignment of these ICDs to 
a third party and the subsequent cancellation 
thereof as well as evaluation of legal notice 
(now a civil suit) received from such third party 
; (iii) review of intra-group transactions for the 
period commencing FY 2014-15 and ending 
on December 31, 2017; (iv) investments made 
in certain overseas funds by the overseas 
subsidiaries of the Company (i.e. Fortis Asia 
Healthcare Pte. Ltd, Singapore and Fortis Global 
Healthcare (Mauritius) Limited) ; (v) certain 
other transactions involving acquisition of Fortis 
Healthstaff Limited (“Fortis Healthstaff”) from 
an erstwhile promoter group company, and 
subsequent repayment of loan by said subsidiary 
to the erstwhile promoter group company. The 
investigation report was submitted to the re-
constituted Board in June 2018.
	
	
	
The investigation noted certain significant 
findings in relation to past transactions 
concerning FHL and its subsidiaries with 
companies whose past promoters/ directors 
were known to/ connected with the erstwhile 
promoters of the Company. All such identified 
transactions were provided for by the Company 
in the financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2018.
	
	
	
The investigation was subject to the limitations 
on the information available to the external legal 
firm and their qualifications and disclaimers 
as described in their investigation report. It 
did not cover all related party transactions 
during the period under investigation.  It was 
observed in internal correspondence within the 
Company that transactions with certain other 
entities have been referred to as related party 
transactions. However, no further conclusions 
could be drawn in this regard.
	
	
(ii)	
Related party relationships as required under 
Ind AS 24 – Related Party Disclosures and 
the Companies Act, 2013 were as identified 
by the Management taking into account the 
findings and limitations in the Investigation 
Report and the information available with the 
Management. In this regard, in the absence 
of specific declarations from the erstwhile 
directors on their compliance with disclosures 
of related parties, especially considering the 
substance of the relationship rather than the 
legal form, the related parties were identified 
based on the declarations by the erstwhile 
directors and the information available through 
the known shareholding pattern in the entities 
up to March 31, 2018. Therefore, the possibility 
could not have been ruled out that there may 
have been additional related parties whose 
relationship may not have been disclosed and 
hence, not known to the Management. While 
such references could not be fully analyzed 
during the initial investigation, the nature of 
these references raised certain concerns.
	
	
	
In order to overcome the above, additional 
procedures/ enquiries were initiated as below.
	
B.	
Additional 
procedures/enquiries 
by 
the 
reconstituted Board
	
	
(i)	
The Company’s Board of Directors initiated 
additional procedures/ enquiries of certain 
entities in the Group that were impacted in 
respect of the matters investigated by the 
external legal firm. Pending the additional 
procedures/enquiries (“Additional Procedures/ 
Enquiries”) and since the investigation was 
subject to the limitations on the information 
available to the external legal firm and their 
qualifications and disclaimers as described in 
their investigation report, as disclosed in the 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
435
audited financial statements for the years ended 
March 31, 2018, March 31, 2019 and March 
31, 2020 certain audit qualifications were made 
in respect of FHL’s financial statements for those 
financial years, as the statutory auditors were 
unable to comment on the nature of those 
matters, the provisions established thereof, or 
any further potential impact on the financial 
statements. In order to resolve the same, 
the Board mandated the management to 
undertake review of certain areas in relation 
to historical transactions for the period April 
1, 2014 to September 30, 2018 involving 
additional matters by engaging independent 
experts with specialised forensic skills to assist 
with the Additional Procedures/Enquiries and 
provide inputs and expert advice in connection 
therewith. The independent experts submitted 
their report which was discussed and considered 
by the Board in its meeting held on September 
16, 2020.
	
	
(ii)	
The Board noted that the Additional Procedures/
Enquiries, prima facie, revealed further instances 
of payments made to the erstwhile promoters 
or to their directly or indirectly related parties 
including erstwhile promoter group entities 
which were potentially improper. However, 
all of the amounts identified in the Additional 
Procedures/Enquiries 
had 
been 
previously 
provided for or expensed in the financial 
statements of FHL or its subsidiaries. There 
are no other improper transactions identified 
by the Additional Procedures/Enquiries or the 
management which had not been expensed or 
provided.
	
	
(iii)	 In connection with the potentially improper 
transactions, the Company has undertaken 
a detailed review of each case to assess the 
Company’s legal rights and has initiated 
necessary action.
	
C.	
Key findings during the investigation by the 
external legal firm and during the Additional 
Procedures/Enquiries by independent experts
	
	
(i)	
Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company, had placed secured 
Short-Term Investments in the nature of Inter 
Corporate Deposits (ICDs) with three companies 
(‘borrowers’) aggregating to ` 49,414 Lakhs 
on July 1, 2017 for a term of 90 days. Further, 
FHsL received intimation that the borrowers 
became a part of the erstwhile Promoter Group 
with effect from December 15, 2017. These 
borrowers continued to be related parties until 
February 16, 2018. Subsequent to which the 
shareholding of the erstwhile Promoter Group 
in the Company was reduced to 0.77%. In 
terms of agreements dated September 30, 
2017, FHsL assigned the outstanding ICDs to a 
third party. Such assignment was subsequently 
terminated on January 5, 2018. on February 28, 
2018, these ICDs were secured by way of a duly 
registered charge on the present and future 
assets of the Borrowers. ICDs aggregating to 
` 44,503 Lakhs including interest accrued 
thereon of ` 4,260 Lakhs calculated up to 
March 31, 2018 remained outstanding. In 
view of the uncertainty in realisability of the 
security and/or collection of the amounts, the 
outstanding amount was fully provided during 
the year ended March 31, 2018.
	
	
	
The Investigation Report indicated that the 
placement of the ICDs, including the method of 
such placement, their subsequent assignment 
and the cancellation of such assignment were 
done without following the normal treasury 
operations and treasury mandate; and without 
specific authorisation by the Board of FHsL. 
(Also refer note 28 on SEBI Order).
	
	
	
As per the Additional Procedures/Enquiries 
by independent experts, the borrowers were 
potentially linked to the erstwhile promoters 
and also potentially linked to each other. FHsL 
has filed a civil suit on August 26, 2019 for 
recovery of ` 52,019 Lakhs before Hon’ble 
Delhi High Court against the Borrowers and few 
other entities which is pending adjudication. 
Further, in the complaint filed with the 
Economic Offence Wing, New Delhi (EOW) in 
November 2020 for certain other matters as 
mentioned subsequently, reference has been 
made of certain queries being put by SFIO in 
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
436
relation to this transaction, and the Company 
having responded thereto. A First Information 
Report (FIR) was registered by EOW in July 2021 
w.r.t. the above complaint. The investigation is 
underway.
	
	
(ii)	
The Company and its subsidiary Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited (‘Agilus’) (certificate of 
incorporation was issued by Office of the 
Registrar of Companies, Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs certifying the change of name from 
“SRL Limited” to “Agilus Diagnostics Limited” 
w.e.f. May 31, 2023) had paid security deposits 
and advances aggregating to ` 2,676 Lakhs 
in the financial year 2013-14 and 2017-18 
respectively, to a private company (“Lessor”) 
towards lease of office space. Due to delays in 
obtaining occupancy certificate (OC), the lease 
agreement/MOUs were either terminated by 
the Company or expired during the financial 
year 2017-18. Agilus attempted to encash 
the cheques issued by the Lessor for refund of 
the advance paid but the same were returned 
unpaid. Additionally, expenditure aggregating 
to ` 2,843 Lakhs was incurred towards capital 
work-in-progress on the premises proposed to 
be taken on lease from the Lessor, which is also 
being claimed from the Lessor pursuant to the 
aforesaid termination. The Company had issued 
legal notice demanding the outstanding. The 
subsidiary, Agilus, had filed criminal complaint 
in Mumbai against the private company under 
Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments 
Act wherein its Directors and authorised 
representatives were directed to appear before 
District Court. This complaint is sub-judice.
	
	
	
In view of the facts stated above and the 
uncertainty in the ultimate recovery of the 
aforesaid balances, the Group had recorded 
provisions aggregating to ` 5,333 Lakhs in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
the year ended March 31,2018 and a further 
provision of ` 186 Lakhs was made in respect of 
expenditure accrued during the quarter ended 
June 30, 2018.
	
	
	
Further, Company and Agilus have filed their 
respective claims before Interim Resolution 
Professional (IRP) appointed by NCLT in a matter 
filed by one of creditors of Lessor. NCLT has 
approved the Resolution Plan. The Resolution 
Professional admitted the claim of the Company 
and Agilus as other creditors and in accordance 
with the terms of Resolution Plan decided that 
the payment made to the Company shall stand 
as ` Nil.
	
	
	
SFIO has sought information in respect of 
this transaction and the same has been duly 
provided by the Company. Further, as stated 
above, a complaint has been filed with the 
EOW in November 2020 by the Company for 
certain other matters, in which a reference has 
been made to such SFIO enquiries as well as 
to the Company’s responses thereto and EOW 
is investigating the matter. A First Information 
Report (FIR) was registered by EOW in July 2021 
against the above complaint. The investigation 
is underway.
	
	
	
Further, Agilus had written off amounts 
aggregating to ` 775.20 Lakhs (Capital 
advances ` 302.14 Lakhs, Security deposits of 
` 200.00 Lakhs, Capital work in progress of 
` 273.06 Lakhs) in the year ended March 31, 
2024. These amounts were fully provided for in 
earlier years.
	
	
(iii)	 FHsL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 
had advanced moneys to an entity towards 
acquisition of property in Mumbai in financial 
year 2013-14 which did not materialise. Of the 
total advance of ` 10,000 Lakhs, balance of 
` 2,375 Lakhs was outstanding to be received 
back. Post-dated cheques received from the 
entity were dishonoured, and FHsL initiated 
legal proceedings in this regard. FHsL had 
accrued for the interest amounting to ` 174 
Lakhs up to March 31, 2018 on the advance 
for the purpose of including the same in the 
legal claim on the entity. However, in line with 
applicable accounting norms, interest thereon 
for the period subsequent to March 31, 2018 
was not accrued considering the uncertainties 
around ultimate realisation of the amounts.
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
437
	
	
	
In view of the facts stated above and the 
uncertainty in the ultimate recovery of the 
aforesaid balances, the Group had recorded 
provisions aggregating to ` 2,549 Lakhs 
towards the amounts due, including interest, in 
the year ended March 31, 2018
	
	
	
One of the directors of the entity, post 
summoning in the legal proceedings initiated 
by the Company has settled disputes for himself 
and the entity by paying ` 2,300 Lakhs during 
the year ended March 31, 2020 towards full 
and final settlement.
	
	
	
Considering full and final settlement already 
done and the transaction having been legally 
concluded no further action is being taken.
	
	
(iv)	 During the year ended March 31, 2018, 
the Company through its subsidiary (i.e. 
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre 
Limited 
(“EHIRCL”)), 
purchased 
further 
71% equity interest in Fortis Healthstaff 
Limited(“Healthstaff”) 
at 
an 
aggregate 
consideration of ` 3.46 Lakhs from erstwhile 
promoter group companies. Subsequently, 
EHIRCL advanced a loan to Healthstaff which 
was used to repay the outstanding unsecured 
loan amount of ` 794.50 Lakhs to an erstwhile 
promoters group company. Certain documents 
suggest that the loan repayment by Healthstaff 
and some other payments to the erstwhile 
promoter group company may have been 
ultimately routed through various intermediary 
companies and used for repayment of the ICDs 
/vendor advance to FHsL/Company. Further, 
Healthstaff was not in a position to repay loan 
to the erstwhile promoter group company. 
EHIRCL also could not directly takeover the loan, 
as EHIRCL (holding 29%) could not have taken 
over the burden of the entire debt of Healthstaff. 
Therefore, this transaction was in a way to help 
the erstwhile promoter group companies (71% 
shareholders) to avoid making payment for its 
share, and place EHIRCL in a situation where 
it would find it hard to recover from its own 
now wholly owned subsidiary. Further, the said 
loan advanced by EHIRCL to Healthstaff was 
impaired in the books of account of EHIRCL due 
to anticipated chances of non-recovery during 
the year ended March 31, 2019.
	
	
	
Complaint has been filed in this regard, with 
the EOW in November 2020 against erstwhile 
promoters/erstwhile promoters group company 
and EOW is investigating the matter. A First 
Information Report (FIR) was registered by EOW 
in July 2021 against the above complaint. The 
investigation is underway.
	
	
(v)	
During the year ended March 31, 2018, the 
Company through its subsidiary (i.e. Fortis 
Hospitals Limited (“FHsL”)), purchased further 
51% equity interest in Fortis Emergency Services 
Limited (FESL) at an aggregate consideration 
of ` 0.255 Lakhs from erstwhile promoter 
group company. Subsequently, FHsL advanced 
a loan to FESL, which was used to repay the 
outstanding unsecured loan amount of ` 215 
Lakhs to an erstwhile promoter group company. 
Certain documents suggest that the loan 
repayment by FESL and some other payments 
to the erstwhile promoter group company 
may have been ultimately routed through 
various intermediary companies and used for 
repayment of the ICDs /vendor advance to FHsL/
Company. Further, FESL was not in a position 
to repay loan to the erstwhile promoter group 
company. FHsL also could not directly takeover 
the loan, as FHsL (holding 49%) could not have 
taken over the burden of the entire debt of 
FESL. Therefore, this transaction was in a way 
to help the erstwhile promoter group company( 
51% shareholders) to avoid making payment 
for its share, and place FHsL in a situation where 
it would find it hard to recover from its own 
now wholly owned subsidiary Further, the said 
loan advanced by FHsL to FESL was impaired in 
the books of account of FHsL due to anticipated 
chances of non-recovery.
	
	
	
Complaint has been filed with the EOW in 
November 2020 against erstwhile promoters/
erstwhile promoters group company and EOW 
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
438
is investigating the matter. A First Information 
Report (FIR) was registered by EOW in July 2021 
against the above complaint. The investigation 
is underway.
	
	
(vi)	 Remuneration to ex-chairman
	
	
	
The Company having considered all necessary 
facts and taking into account external legal 
advice, had on June 27, 2018 decided to treat 
as non-est the Letter of Appointment dated 
September 27, 2016, as amended, (“LoA”) 
issued to the erstwhile Executive Chairman of 
the Company in relation to his role as ‘Lead: 
Strategic Initiatives’ in the Strategy Function. 
Since the LoA was treated as non-est, the 
Company received legal advice from its counsels 
that the amount paid under the aforesaid LoA 
(amounting to ` 1,768 Lakhs) appears to be 
an arrangement designed to circumvent the 
managerial remuneration limits under Section 
197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
relevant Central Government approvals and 
thus was wrongfully paid. Thus, as per the legal 
advice, the payments made to him under this 
LoA for the role of ‘Lead: Strategic Initiatives’ 
ought to be considered and characterised as 
payments which are in the nature of managerial 
remuneration, as regulated and governed in 
section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013. An 
amount of ` 234 Lakhs that was reimbursed in 
relation to expenses incurred was in excess of the 
amounts approved by the Central Government 
under Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Accordingly, the Company sent a letter to the 
erstwhile Executive Chairman seeking refund of 
the excess amounts paid to him over and above 
the managerial remuneration limit, as specified 
under the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
relevant government approvals in this regard. 
The erstwhile Executive Chairman sent a notice 
to the Company claiming ` 4,610 Lakhs as 
allegedly due to him under the employment 
agreement. The Company replied to the same 
through its legal counsel denying any liability 
and stated that the demand was not payable 
being illegal. Subsequently, Company filed 
a complaint against the erstwhile Executive 
Chairman before EOW. The Company has 
received back vehicles which were being used 
by him. However, IT assets and excess amounts 
paid are yet to be received.
	
	
	
In view of the above, the amounts paid to him 
under the aforesaid LoA and certain additional 
amounts reimbursed in relation to expenses 
incurred (in excess of the amounts approved 
by the Central Government under section 197 
of the Companies Act 2013 for remuneration 
& other reimbursements), aggregating to 
` 2,002 Lakhs was recognised as recoverable 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company for the year ended March 31, 
2018. However, considering the uncertainty 
involved on recoverability of the said amounts, 
a provision of ` 2,002 Lakhs was made in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2018. The Company has filed 
a complaint against the erstwhile Executive 
Chairman before EOW on account of both of 
the above payments and EOW is investigating 
the matter.
	
	
	
An addendum to the complaint already filed 
with the EOW has been filed in November 2020 
with the EOW including certain other findings 
during Additional Procedures/Enquiries by 
independent experts as below:
	
	
	
(a)	
Payments were made to the erstwhile 
Executive Chairman from a foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company as one-
time bonus in February 2016 of equivalent 
~ ` 846 Lakhs and managerial remuneration 
was paid for the period January 2016 
to May 2016, amounting to equivalent 
~ ` 349 Lakhs. Further, remuneration 
paid in excess of Central Govt. approval 
by the Company for FY 2014-15 & FY 
2015-16 amounting to ~ ` 528 Lakhs was 
refunded by erstwhile executive chairman 
in March 2016 to FHL. It is possible that 
the amounts recovered towards excess 
remuneration paid from the Company to 
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
439
erstwhile executive chairman of ~ ` 528 
Lakhs was compensated through the 
foreign wholly owned subsidiary.
	
	
	
 (b)	 Payments were made to an erstwhile 
promoter entity from another foreign 
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company 
under an investment advisory agreement 
amounting to equivalent ~ ` 344 Lakhs for 
the period June 2016 to September 2016. 
However, there was nothing on record to 
suggest that any services were rendered 
by the erstwhile promoter entity under 
this agreement.
	
	
(vii)	 During the financial year 2014-15, FHsL acquired 
100% stake in Birdie & Birdie Realtors Pvt Ltd. 
(“Birdie”) from certain persons related to the 
erstwhile promoters, wherein ` 12,275 Lakhs 
were paid towards ICDs at a rate of interest of 
14% per annum and ` 7,725 Lakhs were paid 
for the shares acquired. The total enterprise 
value of Birdie was projected at ` 20,000 Lakhs 
based on the valuation report of land and 
building by an independent valuer. However, 
the equity valuation of ` 7,725 Lakhs was 
arrived based on a land and building valuation 
report by another valuer of ` 23,700 Lakhs and 
on assumption that the Land has to be sold in 
6-8 months, which in reality did not happen. 
Also, the “subject property photographs” used 
in the mentioned two valuation reports were 
identical. Also, the ICD’s of ` 12,275 Lakhs 
were utilised to repay/replace the then existing 
debts including that of erstwhile promoters and 
person/entities related/known to the erstwhile 
promoters. It is possible that the erstwhile 
promoters acted in order to make excess money 
to repay the loans availed by Birdie from them, 
persons related to them and entities related/
known to them. Further, out of total goodwill 
generated on consolidation amounting to 
` 10,661 Lakhs, goodwill to the extent of 
` 9,430 Lakhs was impaired in earlier years 
to bring the investment value in line with the 
market value of the property.
	
	
	
There have been certain queries raised on this 
transaction by the SFIO. The Company has 
responded to the said queries. Further, in the 
above referred Complaint filed with the EOW 
in November 2020 against erstwhile promoters, 
SFIO enquiries and the Company’s responses 
have been mentioned and EOW is investigating 
the matter. A First Information Report (FIR) was 
registered by EOW in July 2021 against the 
above complaint. The investigation is underway. 
Enforcement Directorate is also investigating 
into the allegations made in the said FIR.
	
	
(viii)	 The Company through its overseas subsidiaries 
[i.e. Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte. Ltd, Singapore 
and 
Fortis 
Global 
Healthcare 
(Mauritius) 
Limited] made investments in Global Dynamic 
Opportunity Fund, an overseas fund. It was 
observed in the earlier investigation that there 
were significant fluctuations in the NAV of 
the investments during a short span of time. 
Further, in the internal correspondence within 
the Company, investments in the overseas 
funds have been referred to as related party 
transactions. During year ended March 31, 
2018, investments held in the Global Dynamic 
Opportunity Fund were sold at a discount of 
10%. As at March 31, 2018, the carrying value 
of the investments in the overseas fund were 
recorded at the net recoverable values based 
on subsequent realisation. The consequential 
foreseeable loss of ` 5,510 Lakhs (between 
the previously recorded carrying value of the 
investment and the amount subsequently 
recognised was considered in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended March 
31, 2018.
	
	
	
There is no further finding in additional 
procedures/enquiries by independent experts 
on this matter. Further, the investigation by the 
external legal firm done also mentioned that it 
appeared that GDOF was not related to Fortis 
based on the procedures performed by them. 
Accordingly, no further action is being taken.
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
440
	
	
(ix)	 In respect of certain other matters found 
during the Additional Procedures/Enquiries 
by independent experts no actions were 
recommended since there were no sufficient 
evidences on those matters. However, there is 
no impact of those matters on the financials.
	
D.	
Based on investigation carried out by the external 
legal firm and the additional procedures/enquiries 
by independent experts, all identified/required 
adjustments/provisions/disclosures have been made 
in the consolidated financial statements of the group. 
The Company has also submitted findings of the 
Investigation Report of the external legal firm and 
the additional procedures/ enquiries by independent 
experts to the relevant regulatory authorities. Further, 
on relevant aspects, the Company has also filed 
a complaint with the EOW against the erstwhile 
promoters/ erstwhile promoter group companies 
and EOW is investigating the matter. Recovery /claim 
proceedings have also been Initiated in the matters 
where action was recommended by the legal counsels. 
A First Information Report (FIR) was registered by EOW 
in July 2021 against the above complaint.
	
	
Therefore, 
with 
this 
conclusion, 
the 
initial 
investigation, which was subject to the limitations 
on the information available to the external legal 
firm and their qualifications and disclaimers has 
been addressed through the additional procedures/
enquiries by independent experts. In addition, the 
current Board had initiated specific improvement 
projects to strengthen the process and control 
environment. The projects included revision of 
authority levels, both operational and financial and 
oversight of the Board, review of Financial Reporting 
processes, assessment of secretarial documentation 
w.r.t compliance with regulatory requirements and 
systems design & control enhancement for which 
the assessment work was done and corrective action 
plans were implemented.
	
	
Accordingly, the Board has taken necessary actions 
in consultation with the legal counsels in this regard. 
The investigations in so far as these issues involving 
the erstwhile promoters/ erstwhile promoter group 
companies is concerned are still pending with the 
regulatory authorities. The management of the 
Company also believes that if any action is initiated 
by regulatory authorities against the Company, the 
same should not have a significant material impact 
on the Company as all items which may have 
financial impact have already been provided for in 
earlier years. The Company would fully co-operate 
with the regulatory authorities in this regard.
28. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES:
	
(a)	
In the above backdrop, during financial year 2017-
18 the Company received a communication from 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), 
confirming that an investigation has been instituted 
by SEBI in the matter of the Company. In the said 
letter, SEBI required the Company under section 
11C (3) of the SEBI Act, 1992 to furnish certain 
information and documents relating to the short-
term investments of ` 47,300 Lakhs reported in 
the media. SEBI had appointed forensic auditors to 
conduct a forensic audit, of collating information 
from the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. 
The Company/its subsidiaries furnished requisite 
information and documents requested by SEBI.
	
	
In furtherance of the above, subsequently on October 
17, 2018 SEBI passed an ex-parte Interim Order 
(“Interim Order”) whereby it observed that certain 
transactions were structured by some identified 
entities over a certain duration, and undertaken 
through the Company, which were prima facie 
fictitious and fraudulent in nature and which 
resulted in inter alia diversion of funds from the 
Company for the ultimate benefit of the erstwhile 
promoters (and certain entities controlled by them) 
and misrepresentation in financial statements of the 
Company. Further, it inter alia directed the Company 
to take all necessary steps to recover ` 40,300 Lakhs 
along with due interest from erstwhile promoters and 
various other entities, as mentioned in the Interim 
Order. More importantly, the said entities had also 
been directed to jointly and severally repay ` 40,300 
Lakhs along with due interest to Company within 
three months of the Interim order. Incidentally, the 
Interim order also included FHsL as one of the entities 
directed to repay the due sums. Pursuant to this, 
27. INVESTIGATION INITIATED BY THE ERSTWHILE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
441
FHsL’s beneficial owner account had been suspended 
for debits by the National Securities Depository 
Limited and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited. Further, SEBI had also directed the said 
entities that pending completion of investigation and 
till further order, they shall not dispose of or alienate 
any of their assets or divert any funds, except for 
the purposes for meeting expenses of day-to-day 
business operations, without the prior permission of 
SEBI. Erstwhile promoters were also directed not to 
associate themselves with the affairs of the Company 
in any manner whatsoever, till further directions.
	
	
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary 
i.e. Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL) had then filed 
applications for modification of the Interim order, 
for deletion of name of FHsL from the list of entities 
against whom the directions were issued. Pursuant 
to this SEBI, vide order dated December 21, 2018, 
modified its previous Interim order dated October 
17, 2018 deleting FHsL from the list of entities 
against whom the Interim Order was directed. 
Pursuant to this, the suspension order by National 
Securities Depository Limited for debits in beneficial 
owner account of FHsL was accordingly removed. 
Vide Order dated March 19, 2019, (“Confirmatory 
Order”) SEBI confirmed the directions issued vide ad 
interim ex-parte order dated October 17, 2018 read 
with order dated December 21, 2018, till further 
orders. SEBI also directed the Company and FHsL to 
take all necessary steps to recover ` 40,300 Lakhs 
along with due interest from erstwhile promoters 
and various other entities, as mentioned in the 
Interim Order.
	
	
Company and FHsL had filed necessary applications 
in this regard including an application with the 
Recovery Officer, SEBI, under Section 28A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, for 
the recovery of the amounts owed by the erstwhile 
promoters and various other entities to the Company 
and FHsL. SEBI vide its letter dated June 14, 2019 
stated that provisions of Section 28A of SEBI Act, 
1992  cannot be invoked at this stage hence, 
Company and FHsL may take necessary steps to 
comply with SEBI’s direction. Accordingly, FHsL has 
filed a civil suit for recovery of ` 52,019 Lakhs before 
Hon’ble Delhi High Court against the parties, named 
in the orders passed by SEBI.
	
	
The Investigation Report of the external legal firm was 
submitted by the Company to the SEBI and SFIO on 
June 12, 2018. Further, the Company has submitted 
a copy of the complaint filed with the EOW and 
a copy of the report of the additional procedures/ 
enquiries done by the independent expert to SEBI 
and SFIO on November 10, 2020.
	
	
By an order dated November 12, 2020, SEBI revoked 
its Interim orders read with Confirmatory Order qua 
Best Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Fern Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. 
And Modland Wears Pvt. Ltd. And directed that the 
ongoing proceedings against them be substituted 
with adjudication proceedings. The order expressly 
clarified that the Company and FHsL were at 
liberty to pursue remedies under law, as deemed 
appropriate by them, against the abovementioned 
entities in respect of their role in the diversion of 
funds. A Show-Cause Notice (SCN-1) was issued by 
SEBI to various entities including the Company and 
FHsL on November 20, 2020. In the SCN-1, it was 
inter-alia alleged that the consolidated financials of 
the Company at the relevant period were untrue and 
misleading for the shareholders of the Company and 
the Company had circumvented certain provisions of 
the SEBI Act, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956, and certain SEBI regulations. In response, a joint 
representation/reply was filed by the Company and 
FHsL on December 28, 2020 praying for quashing of 
the SCN-1 by inter alia reiterating that the Company 
and FHsL, were in fact victims of the schemes of 
the erstwhile Promoters (Malvinder Mohan Singh 
and Shivinder Mohan Singh) and justice, equity 
and fairness demands that the victim ought not be 
punished for the offences of the wrongdoers. All 
acts impugned in the SCN-1 relate to the period 
when the erstwhile Promoters controlled the affairs 
of Company and FHsL and the erstwhile Promoters 
are no longer involved in the affairs of the Company 
and FHsL. The erstwhile Promoters were responsible 
for financial misrepresentation and not the Company 
and FHsL. Post resignation of the erstwhile Promoters 
in February 2018, the Board of Directors of the 
Company, solely comprising independent Directors 
28. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
442
looked after its welfare. The new promoter of the 
Company (i.e. NTK Venture Pte. Ltd.) assumed 
control of the Company pursuant to a preferential 
allotment which was approved by the Competition 
Commission of India and SEBI which approved the 
open offer that had got triggered pursuant to such 
preferential allotment. Any adverse orders against 
the Company and FHsL would harm their existing 
shareholders, employees and creditors. The Company 
and FHsL have taken substantial legal actions against 
the erstwhile Promoters and significant steps to 
recover the diverted amounts. SEBI passed an order 
dated April 19, 2022 w.r.t SCN -1 directing the 
Company & FHsL to pursue the measures taken to 
recover the amount of ` 39,712 Lakhs (approx.) along 
with the interest from erstwhile Promoters; & Audit 
Committee to regularly monitor the progress of such 
measures and report the same to Board of Directors 
at regular intervals. SEBI has imposed a penalty of 
` 100.00 Lakhs and ` 50.00 Lakhs on Company and 
FHsL respectively. The Company and FHsL filed an 
appeal against the order dated April 19, 2022 before 
Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai. On 
August 25, 2022, SEBI filed its affidavit in reply in 
the matter. Thereafter, the Company and FHsL 
filed a rejoinder to SEBI’s reply. Appeal is pending 
adjudication. The Company & FHsL have deposited 
` 50.00 Lakhs and ` 25.00 Lakhs respectively under 
protest with Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal, 
Mumbai.
	
	
On April 09, 2021, SEBI issued another Show 
cause notice (SCN-2) to various noticees including 
Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Limited 
(“EHIRCL”). In the said SCN-2, with respect to EHIRCL, 
it was alleged that ` 56,700 Lakhs was lent by the 
Company to EHIRCL in 2011, which was subsequently 
transferred by EHIRCL to Lowe Infra and Wellness 
Private Limited (“Lowe”) in multiple transactions 
for the purchase of a land parcel. This land parcel, 
which was allegedly indirectly to be acquired by the 
Company through its subsidiary EHIRCL and another 
entity Lowe, was then transferred to RHC Holdings 
Private Limited (“RHC Holdings”). It was stated in the 
said SCN-2 that a structured rotation of funds was 
carried out to portray that the loan extended by the 
Company for the purchase of land had been paid 
back with interest in the year 2011. It is alleged that 
the Company was actually paid back by RHC Holding 
over a period of four years ending on July 31, 2015. 
In this respect, the Company and FHsL funds were 
allegedly routed through various layers in order to 
camouflage the transactions, and to circumvent legal 
provisions with respect to related party transactions.
	
	
In the SCN-2, EHIRCL had been clubbed along with 
the other noticees and had been painted with the 
same brush as the other noticees in alleging that 
certain noticees, including EHIRCL, were part of a 
fraudulent and deceptive device wherein they acted 
in fraudulent manner which led to the misuse and/
or diversion of funds from a listed company i.e. FHL, 
amounting to approximately ` 39,712 Lakhs for the 
ultimate benefit of RHC Holdings and the erstwhile 
promoters. Thereby, it is alleged, that EHIRCL has 
aided and abetted the routing of funds from the 
Company, ultimately to RHC Holdings, for the 
benefit of the promoter entities.
	
	
SEBI w.r.t SCN-2 passed an order dated May 18, 
2022 imposing penalty against several erstwhile 
promoters entities and certain individuals. Based 
on the aforesaid allegations and actions taken by 
the Company against the erstwhile promoters and 
related entities, it had also imposed a penalty of ` 100 
Lakhs on EHIRCL. EHIRCL filed an appeal against the 
order dated May 18, 2022 before Hon’ble Securities 
Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai. SEBI filed its response 
to which EHIRCL filed a rejoinder. Appeal is pending 
adjudication. EHIRCL has deposited ` 50 Lakhs under 
protest with Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal, 
Mumbai.
	
	
The Board of Directors continue to be fully committed 
to fully co-operating with the relevant regulatory 
authorities to enable them to make a determination 
on these matters and to undertake remedial action, 
as may be required, and to ensure compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. In the aforesaid 
context, proper and sufficient care has also been 
taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities on a going forward basis.
28. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
443
	
(b)	
During year ended March 31, 2018, the Registrar 
of Companies (ROC) under section 206(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, inter alia, had also sought 
information in relation to the Company. All requisite 
information in this regard was duly shared by the 
Company with the ROC.
	
(c)	
The Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) of the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, under section 217(1)(a) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, inter alia, initiated an 
investigation and is seeking information in relation 
to the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates. The Company is submitting requisite 
information in this regard with SFIO, as requested from 
time to time. The outcome of the SFIO investigation 
cannot be ascertained as of now keeping in view the 
present stage of the investigation.
	
	
The Company is fully co-operating with the regulators 
in relation to the ongoing investigations to enable 
them to make their determination on these matters.
	
	
Based on management’s analysis, a provision has 
been made and recognised in the quarter ended 
March 31, 2021 for any contingency that may arise 
from the aforesaid issues. This is not to be regarded 
as admission in any manner whatsoever by the 
Company of any of the violations, as alleged by any 
of the authorities or otherwise, against it. Further, 
as per the management and in consultation with 
external legal counsel it is believed that the likelihood 
of additional impact, if any, is low and is not expected 
to be material.
29. One of the employees of a subsidiary, Fortis Hospitals 
Limited, who is also a Director of another subsidiary, 
Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital Limited has 
resigned from all his responsibilities under the employee 
contract on February 18, 2025, with his last working date 
being May 17, 2025. The said Director has not submitted 
form DIR-8 to Escorts Heart and Super Speciality Hospital 
Limited i.e. a declaration to confirm that he was not 
disqualified from reappointment/ appointment under 
Section 164(2) of the Companies Act, 2013. However, 
based on other disclosures made to the Company 
during the year, the director has confirmed that he was 
not a director in any other Company. Accordingly, the 
Company believes that the director is not disqualified as 
on March 31, 2025 in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
30. (A)	 The Board of Directors, after seeking inputs from 
reputed investment bankers, had approved an 
equity infusion of ` 400,000 Lakhs at a price of 
` 170 per equity share into the Company by Northern 
TK Venture Pte Ltd Singapore (NTK) (“Acquirer”), 
a wholly owned subsidiary of IHH Healthcare 
Berhad, Malaysia through a preferential allotment 
(“Preferential Issue”), subject to approval of the 
shareholders and other regulatory approvals which 
constituted 31.1% share capital of the Company. 
The shareholders of the Company approved the 
Preferential Issue by requisite majority at their 
Extra Ordinary General Meeting dated August 13, 
2018. The Acquirer had received the approval from 
Competition Commission of India (CCI) on October 
30, 2018 and the preferential allotment was made on 
November 13, 2018. Pursuant to the consummation 
of the same, Northern TK Venture Pte Ltd, had 
appointed 2/3 of the directors on the Board of 
Directors of the Company, thereby acquiring control 
over the Company. Consequently, the Company 
has become a subsidiary of Northern TK Venture 
Pte Ltd. Further, pursuant to the Preferential Issue, 
Northern TK Venture Pte. Ltd is under an obligation 
to make a mandatory open offer to the public 
shareholders of the Company and Fortis Malar 
Hospitals Limited in accordance with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition 
of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
	
	
However, in view of order dated December 14, 
2018 passed by Hon’ble Supreme Court wherein 
it was specified that status quo with regard to 
sale of the controlling stake in Fortis Healthcare to 
Malaysian IHH Healthcare Berhad be maintained, the 
Mandatory Open offer was kept in abeyance. The 
Company had accordingly filed an application 
seeking for modification of the said order which 
has been disposed of pursuant to the judgement 
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated September 
22, 2022. Vide its judgement dated November 
15, 2019, the Hon’ble Supreme Court had issued 
suo-moto contempt notice to, among others, the 
Company and directed its Registry to register a fresh 
contempt petition in regard to alleged violation of 
the order dated December 14, 2018. In this respect, 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court had sought an enquiry, 
28. MATTERS IN RELATION TO REGULATORY AUTHORITIES: (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
444
into (i) whether the subscription by the Acquirer to 
the shares of the Company was undertaken after 
the status quo order was issued by the Hon’ble 
Court on December 14, 2018 and accordingly, if 
such subscription was in violation of this status quo 
order; and (ii) the consummation of the acquisition 
of healthcare assets from RHT Health Trust by the 
Company.
	
	
The Company had filed a detailed reply to the show 
cause notice issued in the suo-moto contempt, 
praying inter alia, that the suo- moto contempt 
proceedings be dropped and ex- parte status quo 
order dated December 14, 2018 (“status Quo 
Order”) be modified/ vacated such that Open Offer 
may proceed.
	
	
Further, at the request of SEBI by way of an application 
seeking impleadment, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of 
India had impleaded SEBI as a party in the petition 
pending before it. SEBI had prayed for allowing the 
Mandatory Open Offer. Further, the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court of India had issued notice on application filed 
by a public shareholder of the Company seeking 
impleadment. NTK had also filed an application for 
impleadment, modification of the status quo order 
and for proceeding with Mandatory Open Offer.
	
	
Vide judgment dated 22nd September 2022 
(“Judgement”), the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India 
disposed of Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 20417 
of 2017, Contempt Petition No. 2120 of 2018 in 
SLP I No. 20417 of 2019 and Suo Motu Contempt 
Petition I No. 4 of 2019, which includes the Petition 
in which the Status Quo Order dated December 14, 
2018 had been issued. It had directed the Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi inter alia that it may also consider 
issuing appropriate process and appointing forensic 
auditor(s) to analyse the transactions entered into 
between FHL and RHT and other related transactions. 
In so far as the acquisition of proprietary interests of 
RHT Health Trust by the Company is concerned, the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court observed that prima facie, 
it appears to be acquisition of proprietary interest 
to subserve the business structure of the Company, 
as suggested by IHH/NTK while observing that it is a 
matter to be enquired into and facts to be assessed 
in light of any forensic analysis, if the court so deems 
appropriate.
	
	
Pursuant to the Judgement, Hon’ble High Court 
of Delhi vide its order dated October 18, 2022 has 
directed Decree Holder to file an application defining 
contours of the forensic audit sought, which could 
thereafter be considered by the Delhi High Court. 
Decree Holder filed application(s) before Delhi High 
Court seeking appropriate directions in connection 
with forensic audit. Company has filed objections 
to the said request of the Decree Holder and also 
made submissions in this regard. Matter is pending 
adjudication.
	
	
In view of the legal positions/claim(s) and defence(s) 
available to the Company and basis external legal 
advice, the management believes that it has a 
strong case on merits. It is of the view that these 
transactions were conducted in a fair and transparent 
manner, after obtaining all relevant regulatory and 
shareholders’ approval and only after making all due 
disclosures to public shareholders of the Company 
and to the regulatory authorities, in the requisite 
manner. Therefore, no adjustment is required in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
(B)	 Further during the year ended March 31, 2021, in 
view of the aforesaid suo moto contempt notice, 
for abundant caution, an application was filed by 
the Company before the Hon’ble Supreme Court 
of India, praying for grant of permission to it and 
its subsidiaries for changing their respective names, 
brands and logos; and for continued usage of the 
same if the said application was not disposed of 
prior to expiry of the term of the Brand License 
Agreements to allow adequate time for smooth 
brand transition without any disruption to business. 
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Brand 
License Agreement had expired. As mentioned 
above, the Judgment has disposed of the Petitions 
and all applications thereunder.
	
	
Earlier, Decree Holder had filed before the Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi certain applications praying for 
the appointment of a Court Commissioner for the 
purposes of carrying out the sale of the ‘Fortis’ marks 
(i.e.‘Fortis’ trademarks and allied trademarks). At the 
request of Decree holder, the Hon’ble High Court of 
Delhi (vide order dated October 29, 2024) ordered 
for the sale of ‘Fortis’ brand and allied trademarks 
30. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
445
by way of public auction and directed Joint Registrar 
(Judicial) Hon’ble High Court of Delhi for this purpose. 
Pursuant thereto, the Joint Registrar appointed an 
auctioneer and finalised the proclamation of sale 
enumerating conditions of sale of ‘Fortis’ brand 
and allied trademarks. Proclamation was published 
on December 12, 2024 in two newspapers i.e. The 
Stateman and Navbharat Times and auction was 
carried out on December 21, 2024 where except the 
Company, no other party participated. Auctioneer 
opened the bidding with ` 20,000 Lakhs to which 
the Company agreed and was declared as the 
highest bidder. As per bid condition, ` 1,000 Lakhs 
was deposited as earnest money for participating 
in the auction and after being declared as the 
highest bidder, additional sum of ` 4,000 Lakhs has 
been deposited by the Company with the Registrar 
General- Delhi High Court on December 23, 2024. 
The Joint Registrar also submitted its report to the 
Hon’ble High Court of Delhi about the auction held. 
Vide order dated March 25, 2025, sale has been 
confirmed and concluded by Hon’ble High Court of 
Delhi and objection raised by brand owner as regards 
to the valuation of the mark has been rejected. 
Balance amount of ` 15,000 Lakhs out of total bid 
price has been deposited by the Company with the 
Registrar General- Delhi High Court on April 04, 
2025. Learned Joint Registrar- Delhi High Court vide 
its order dated April 21,2025 has issued “Certificate 
of Sale” in favour of the Company. Appeals filed by 
the brand owner before Hon’ble Division Bench of 
Delhi High Court challenging the confirmation of sale 
of “Fortis” brand and allied trademarks have been 
withdrawn with the liberty to take actions, if any, in 
accordance with law. Actions have been initiated for 
registration of Fortis and allied trademarks in favor of 
the Company.
31. The Group has established a comprehensive system of 
maintenance of information and documents as required 
by transfer pricing legislation under Section 92D for its 
international transactions. Based on the transfer pricing 
regulations/ policy, the transfer pricing study for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 is to be conducted on or before 
due date of the filing of return and the Company will 
further update above information and records based on 
the same and expects these to be in existence latest by 
that date. Management believes that all the transactions 
are at arm’s length price and the aforesaid legislations will 
not have impact on the consolidated financial statement, 
particularly on the amount of tax expense and provision 
for taxation.
32. The Group has entered in various agreements with 
equipment manufacturer suppliers. As per agreements, 
the Group will get equipment free of cost and reagents 
have to be purchased from those specific vendors only. 
These equipment can be replaced at any point of time as 
per the discretion of the respective vendors.
33. DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES AS PER MSMED ACT, 2006
	
The Ministry of Micro and Small Enterprises has issued an office memorandum dated August 26, 2008 which recommends that 
the micro enterprises and the small enterprises should mention in their correspondences with their customers the Entrepreneur 
Memorandum Number as allocated after filing of the memorandum. Accordingly, the below information regarding dues to 
Micro and Small Enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information 
available with the Company.
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remain unpaid to any supplier 
as at the end of each accounting year:
-Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises (including payable against 
PPE of ` 2,946.10 Lakhs)
13,573.71
16,211.40
30. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
446
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
-Interest due on above
 127.70
95.81
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED 
Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
 28,970.61
-
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
 43.03
75.21
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
 491.50
241.06
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest due as above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under 
Section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
31.89
-
	
*Including payable to micro enterprises and small enterprises included in other financial liabilities [refer note 6(xviii)]
34. Details of dividend by Company or subsidiaries is as below:
	
i.	
The Board of Directors of the Company, at its 
meeting on May 20, 2025, recommended a final 
dividend at the rate of ` 1.00 per equity share (10% 
on face value of ` 10 per share) for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2025. This payment is subject to 
the approval of shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) of the Company and if approved, 
would result in a net cash outflow of approximately 
` 7,549.58 Lakhs.
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company 
paid a final dividend of ` 1.00 per equity share (10% 
on face value of ` 10 per share). This resulted in a 
cash outflow of ` 7,549.58 Lakhs.
	
ii.	
The Board of Directors of Agilus Diagnostics Limited, 
at its meeting on May 16, 2025, recommended a 
final dividend at the rate of ` 2.48 per equity share on 
784.26 Lakhs shares having face value of ` 10 each 
(fully paid up) for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025. This payment is subject to the approval of 
shareholders in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
of the Agilus Diagnostics Limited and if approved, 
would result in a net cash outflow of approximately 
` 1,944.95 Lakhs for Agilus Diagnostics Limited.
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024, ADL paid a final 
dividend of ` 1.69 per equity share on 784.26 Lakhs 
shares having face value of ` 10 each (fully paid up). 
This resulted in a cash outflow of ` 1,325.39 Lakhs 
for Agilus Diagnostics Limited.
	
iii.	
The Board of Directors of Agilus Pathlabs Private 
Limited (‘APPL’) in its meeting held on July 22, 2024 
have declared an interim dividend of ` 16.74 per 
equity share in the current year. This resulted in net 
cash outflow of ` 662.60 Lakhs.
	
iv.	
The Board of Directors of DDRC Agilus Pathlabs 
Limited (‘DDRC’) in its meeting held on July 01, 2024 
have declared an interim dividend of ` 265.07 per 
equity share in the current year. This resulted in net 
cash outflow of ` 1,325.35 Lakhs.
	
v.	
The Board of Directors of Fortis Hospotel Limited 
(‘FHTL’), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 
in its meeting held on May 13, 2025, proposed a 
final dividend of ` 1.40 per share in respect of year 
ended March 31, 2025. This payment is subject 
to the approval of shareholders in the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of FHTL, and if approved, 
it would result in net cash outflow of approximately 
` 7,856.38 Lakhs.
33. DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES AS PER MSMED ACT, 2006 (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
447
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024, FHTL paid a final 
dividend of ` 1.50 per equity share. This resulted in a 
cash outflow of ` 8,417.55 Lakhs.
	
vi.	
For the year ended March 31, 2024, Fortis Malar 
Hospitals Limited (FMHL) paid a dividend of ` 42.50 
(interim dividend of ` 40 and final dividend of 
` 2.50) per equity share having face value of ` 10 
each (fully paid up). This resulted in a cash outflow 
of ` 7,965.24 Lakhs for FMHL.
	
vii.	 The Board of Directors of Malar Stars Medicare 
Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of FMHL, at its 
meeting held on March 29, 2024 had declared an 
interim dividend of ` 4000 per equity share (40000% 
on face value of ` 10 per share). The dividend was 
paid on April 02, 2024 and had resulted in a net cash 
outflow of ` 2,000.00 Lakhs.
35. a)	
On March 31, 2023, the Board of directors of 
the Company gave their consent to sell/transfer/
dispose-off Arcot Road Hospital, Chennai as a going 
concern/on slump sale basis on “as is where is” 
basis on such terms and conditions as per the draft 
business transfer agreement and with closure of 
points under discussion.
	
During the previous year, based on the final business 
transfer agreement with Sri Kauvery Medical Care 
(India) 
Limited, 
the 
Company 
consummated 
transaction for a sale consideration of ` 15,200 
Lakhs (excluding other charges) and recorded an 
exceptional gain of ` 349.29 Lakhs.
	
	
Following assets and liabilities were transferred as part of the slump sale transaction:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amounts as at 
Disposal date
July 11, 2023
Assets held for 
Sale as at
 March 31, 2023
Assets:
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment
16,431.83
16,373.25
Capital work in progress
73.28
59.57
Right-of-use assets
6,988.68
6,988.68
Other intangible assets
-
7.07
Other financial assets
200.32
178.91
Deferred tax assets (net)
434.65
430.25
Other non-current assets
0.95
20.01
Total (A)
24,129.71
24,057.74
Current assets:
Inventory
232.83
205.15
Trade receivables
661.39
749.88
Cash and cash equivalents
1.00
2.20
Other financial assets
1.39
2.18
Other current assets
539.28
552.63
Total (B)
1,435.89
1,512.04
Total assets (C = A + B)
25,565.60
25,569.78
Liabilities:
Non-current liabilities:
Lease liabilities
9,075.60
9,060.86
Provisions
82.79
81.09
Total (D)
9,158.39
9,141.95
34. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
448
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amounts as at 
Disposal date
July 11, 2023
Assets held for 
Sale as at
 March 31, 2023
Current liabilities
Trade payables
1,463.12
1,599.10
Lease liabilities
112.27
107.96
Other financial liabilities
136.77
200.65
Provisions
6.52
29.52
Other current liabilities
62.06
152.66
Total 
1,780.74
2,089.89
Total liabilities (F = D + E)
10,939.13
11,231.84
Net assets transferred (G = C – F)
14,626.47
14,337.94
Consideration received (H)
15,200.00
Gross gain on slump sale transaction (I = H -G)
573.53
Less: Expenses in nature of ‘Legal and professional fee’ in relation to 
transaction (J)
(224.24)
Net gain on slump sale transaction (K = I – J)
349.29
	
(b)	
The Group operated its healthcare business from 
Fortis Malar Hospital situated at Adyar Chennai 
(“Malar Hospital/undertaking”) through its subsidiary 
Fortis Malar Hospitals Limited (FHML). FHML had 
a “Hospital and Medical Services Agreement” 
(“HMSA”) with Fortis Health Management Limited 
(“FHML”), another subsidiary of the Company, w.r.t. 
rendering of certain medical and healthcare services 
in the hospital premises (including right to use of the 
hospital building).
	
	
Vide application dated 29th May 1999, FMHL had 
requested to the Chennai Metropolitan Development 
Authority (“CMDA”) for regularisation of the 
aforesaid hospital premises which was rejected by 
CMDA by its Order dated 18 March 2016 (Rejection 
Order). Consequentially, CMDA served a “Lock & 
Seal” notice on May 03, 2016 stating that in view 
of Rejection Order, the construction at the site of the 
Hospital premises is unauthorised and called upon to 
restore the land to its original state within 30 days 
from the date of the notice. FMHL and FHML had 
continuously been taking bonafide steps to get the 
required clearances/ certificates, regularisation of the 
hospital building and issues related thereto.
	
	
However, above referred legacy issues gave rise 
to certain challenges for these subsidiaries and 
constrained further investments into the facility. The 
circumstances accentuated the need to divest the 
undertaking as a viable and prudent option in the 
interest of stakeholders.
	
	
Accordingly, during the previous year, FMHL, 
FHML and and Hospitalia Eastern Private Limited 
entered into a Business Transfer Agreement (‘BTA’)/ 
Agreement to Sell (‘ATS’) for divestment of business 
operations pertaining to Malar Hospital (which also 
inter alia include land and building on which Malar 
Hospital is situated) and adjoining vacant lands. As 
per BTA, the undertaking along with all related assets 
and liabilities (refer below) stands transferred and 
vested in MGM Healthcare Private Limited. Further, 
the HMSA with FMHL was automatically terminated 
post this transaction. Accordingly, the Group is no 
longer associated with the hospital building and 
related uncertainties such as pending regularisation 
and ongoing litigations related thereto.
	
	
Consequent to disposal of operations of Fortis 
Malar Hospital Limited, the goodwill related to the 
cash generating unit, Fortis Malar, had been fully 
impaired.
35. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
449
	
	
Following assets and liabilities were transferred as part of the slump sale transaction:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amounts as at 
disposal date
Assets:
Property, plant and equipment
10,829.36
Other financial assets
69.74
Inventory
125.96
Trade Receivable
960.47
Other current assets
78.57
Total assets (A)
12,064.10
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amounts as at 
disposal date
Liabilities:
Trade Payables
1,710.52
Provisions
538.42
Other current liabilities
183.19
Total liabilities (B)
2,432.13
Net assets/(liabilities) transferred C = (A) - (B)
9,631.97
Consideration received/receivable
12,664.23
Gross gain/(loss) on Slump Sale
3,032.26
Less: Expenses incurred in relation to slump sale
(743.16)
Gain/(loss) on slump sale transaction presented under ‘Exceptional Items’
2,289.10
Less: Goodwill written off
2,044.12
Add: Net gain on derecognition of leases
38.50
Net gain/(loss) on slump sale transaction presented under ‘Exceptional Items’
283.48
	
	
Post this sale, FHML ceases to have any business operations. Currently, FHML has no visibility of commencing any new 
business operations in the future, and FHML’s management and Board of Directors, in consultation with its legal advisors/ 
merchant bankers, is evaluating various corporate restructuring options for the future possible course of actions for FHML 
and is progressing with the finalisation of plan.
	
(c)	
During the current year, Fortis Hospitals Limited (FHsL), a subsidiary Company, entered into Business Transfer Arrangement 
(BTA) with Vikram Aura Private Limited (VAPL) on December 12, 2024. Pursuant to the BTA the entire business operations 
of the Richmond Road Hospital have been transferred to VAPL as a going concern on a slump sale basis for a purchase 
consideration of ` 2,275.31 Lakhs. The group has recognised a gain on divestment of business operations of Richmond 
Road Hospital amounting to ` 2,350.45 Lakhs. The gain includes de-recognition of Right of Use assets and lease liability 
outstanding in books for the underlying building of ` 1,135.97 Lakhs.
35. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
450
	
	
Following assets and liabilities were transferred as part of the transaction:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at December 
12, 2024
(Amount as on 
disposal date)
Assets:
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment
1,004.66
Capital work in progress
2.45
Right-of-use assets
1,680.94
Total (A)
2,688.05
Current assets:
Inventories
76.60
Trade receivables
142.42
Cash and cash equivalents
11.45
Other financial assets
58.63
Other current assets
88.94
Total (B)
378.04
Total assets (C = A + B)
3,066.09
Liabilities:
Current liabilities
Trade payables
231.19
Lease liabilities
2,816.91
Other financial liabilities
21.78
Provisions
61.40
Other current liabilities
9.95
Total liabilities (D)
3,141.23
Net assets transferred (E = C - D)
(75.14)
Consideration received (F)
2,275.31
Gain on slump sale transaction (G = E -F)
2,350.45
36. a)	
During the previous year, effective from April 01, 2023, one of the subsidiaries (“Agilus Diagnostics Limited”) (‘Agilus’) 
acquired Deep Clinical Laboratories. The transaction was for a purchase consideration of ` 700.00 Lakhs (Fair value of 
` 652.50 Lakhs). The amount shall be payable in three tranches ` 350.00 Lakhs payable on Effective Date, ` 175.00 
Lakhs payable on the date of expiry of 6 months from the Closing date and ` 175.00 Lakhs payable within 60 days from 
the expiry of one-year period from the closing date on achievement of revenue target. The transaction is accounted 
as business combination and based on purchase price allocation performed, a goodwill of ` 592.26 Lakhs had been 
recorded.
35. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
451
	
	
The following table summarises the recognised amount of assets acquired:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Fair Value
Trademark and non compete fees
 56.90
Right of use assets
 151.97
Property, plant and equipment
2.75
Other Intangible assets
0.59
Lease liability
 (151.97)
Net assets acquired
 60.24
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill arising from acquisition has been determined as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Purchase consideration (including contingent consideration of ` 127.51 Lakhs)
 652.50
Fair value of net identifiable assets
 60.24
Goodwill
 592.26
	
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Cost approach has been adopted to estimate the fair value of Property, plant and equipment.
	
	
Non-compete
	
	
The intangible asset related to non-compete has been valued using with or without method, which is form of the income 
approach. Non compete is having useful life of 10 years.
	
b)	
During the previous year, effective from April 10, 2023, one of the subsidiaries (“Agilus Diagnostics Limited”) (‘Agilus’) 
acquired Lifeline Laboratores, located at Green park, New Delhi. The transaction was for a purchase consideration of 
` 4,149.29 Lakhs (Fair value of ` 3,500.91 Lakhs). The amount is payable in two tranches. First tranche of ` 3,099.29 Lakhs 
has been paid during the year and second tranche of ` 1,050.00 Lakhs is payable on the final closing date on achievement 
on revenue target. The transaction is accounted as business combination and based on purchase price allocation performed, 
a goodwill of ` 2,996.16 Lakhs had been recorded.
	
	
The following table summarises the recognised amount of assets acquired:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Fair Value
Trademark and non compete fees
387.60
Net working capital
4.00
Right of use assets
113.25
Property, plant and equipment
113.15
Lease liability
(113.25)
Net assets acquired
504.75
36. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
452
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill arising from acquisition has been determined as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Purchase consideration (including contingent consideration of ` 448.74 Lakhs)
 3,500.91
Fair value of net identifiable assets
 504.75
Goodwill
 2,996.16
	
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Cost approach has been adopted to estimate the fair value of Property, plant and equipment.
	
	
Non-Compete
	
	
The intangible asset related to non-compete has been valued using with or without method, which is form of the income 
approach. Non compete is having useful life of 8 years.
	
c)	
During the previous year, effective from October 03, 2023, one of the subsidiaries (“Agilus Diagnostics Limited”) (‘Agilus’) 
acquired Dr. Gajendra Yadav Pathology Lab, located at Rewari, Haryana. The transaction was for a purchase consideration 
of ` 2,300.00 Lakhs (Fair value of ` 1,675.23 Lakhs). The amount is payable in two tranches. First tranche of ` 1,150.00 
Lakhs had been paid during the previous year and second tranche of ` 1,150.00 Lakhs was payable within 60 days from 
the expiry of the one year from the closing date on achievement of revenue target. The transaction is accounted as business 
combination and based on purchase price allocation performed, a goodwill of ` 1,445.42 Lakhs had been recorded.
	
	
The following table summarises the recognised amount of assets acquired:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Fair Value
Trademark and non compete fees
153.50
Net working capital
5.70
Right of use assets
253.18
Property, plant and equipment
68.43
Other Intangible assets
2.18
Lease liability
(253.18)
Net assets acquired
229.81
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill arising from acquisition has been determined as follows:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Purchase consideration (including contingent consideration of ` 525.23 Lakhs)
 1,675.23
Fair value of net identifiable assets
 229.81
Goodwill
 1,445.42
	
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Cost approach has been adopted to estimate the fair value of Property, plant and equipment.
36. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
453
	
	
Non-Compete
	
	
The intangible asset related to non-compete has been valued using with or without method, which is form of the income 
approach. Non compete is having useful life of 10 years.
	
d)	
During the previous year, effective from November 01, 2023, one of the subsidiaries (“Agilus Diagnostics Limited”) (‘Agilus’) 
acquired Pathocare Pathology Lab, located at Vadodara, Gujarat. The transaction was for a purchase consideration of 
` 3,600.00 Lakhs (Fair value of ` 2,796.73 Lakhs). The amount is payable in three tranches. First tranche and second 
tranche of ` 825.00 Lakhs and ` 900.00 Lakhs has been paid during the previous year and third tranche of ` 1,875.00 
Lakhs is payable within 60 days from the expiry of demonstration period (one year from the closing date) on achievement 
of EBITDA target. The transaction is accounted as business combination and based on purchase price allocation performed, 
a goodwill of ` 2,327.41 Lakhs had been recorded.
	
	
The following table summarises the recognised amount of assets acquired:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Fair Value
Trademark and non compete fees
302.30
Net working capital
29.73
Right of use assets
260.04
Property, plant and equipment
137.28
Lease liability
(260.04)
Net assets acquired
469.31
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill arising from acquisition has been determined as follows:
Particulars
Amount
Purchase consideration (including contingent consideration of ` 1,071.72 Lakhs)
 2,796.72
Fair value of net identifiable assets
 469.31
Goodwill
 2,327.41
	
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Cost approach has been adopted to estimate the fair value of Property, plant and equipment.
	
	
Non-compete
	
	
The intangible asset related to non-compete has been valued using with or without method, which is form of the income 
approach. Non compete is having useful life of 12 years.
	
e)	
Goodwill on the above acquisitions is attributable mainly to the synergies expected to be achieved by integrating the 
acquired businesses into the Group’s existing diagnostic business. None of the goodwill recognised is deductible for income 
tax purposes.
	
	
For the period from the respective date of acquisition till March 31, 2024, the above businesses contributed revenue 
of ` 2,309.84 Lakhs to the Group’s financial statements. If the said acquisitions had occurred on April 01, 2023, the 
management estimates that the consolidated revenue of the Group would have been ` 138,374.64 Lakhs. Contribution of 
the above businesses in the previous year’s profit is not available since the books of accounts are not separately maintained.
36. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
454
	
f)	
The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on September 25, 2023 approved the acquisition of shareholding 
of Artistery Properties Private Limited (Artistery) at an enterprise value of ` 3,200 Lakhs, and payment of charges to Kolkata 
Metropolitan Development Authority (“KMDA”) for change of land use and other levies. Artistery is in possession of a land 
parcel situated adjacent to Fortis Hospital, Anandpur, Kolkata under license from KMDA.
	
	
During the previous year, the transaction was consummated on November 08, 2023 and the same has been accounted as 
asset acquisition as per Ind AS 103.
	
	
The following table summarises the assets and liabilities acquired:
 (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Amount
Property, Plant and Equipment
6.68
Right of use
4,802.52
Other financial assets
14.14
Other assets
14.00
Other liabilities
(68.17)
Net assets acquired
4,769.17
	
g)	
During the current year, Fortis Hospotel Limited (FHTL) has signed definitive agreements on February 14, 2025 for 
acquisition of the entire business operations of Shrimann Superspecialty Hospital, situated at Jalandhar Pathankot Highway, 
Village Nurpur, Jalandhar (“Shrimann Hospital”), the underlying hospital land and the adjacent land thereto (“Proposed 
Transaction”).The consummation of the Proposed Transaction is subject to certain customary conditions precedent and 
closing conditions, as agreed under the terms of the relevant definitive agreements. The overall consideration of the 
Proposed Transaction is ` 46,190 Lakhs.
	
	
Further, there has been certain dispute between Shrimann Hospitals and another party which is under discussion for 
resolution and accordingly, the transaction is still to be consummated.
37. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
i.	
The Group is not declared the willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
ii.	
The Group has following transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 
560 of the Companies Act, 1956:
(` in Lakhs)
Name of the Company
Reason for 
continuous 
transactions
Nature of 
transaction
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025 
(payable/ 
(advance))
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2024 
(payable/ 
(advance))
Transactions 
in. FY 2024-25
Transactions 
in FY 2023-24
Abstract Waterproofing 
Private Limited
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
-
-
4.71
ANIKETSHUBHAM PRIVATE 
LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
0.73
3.65
-
-
CHILD HEALTH IMPRINTS 
INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
0.84
0.84
-
-
36. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
455
(` in Lakhs)
Name of the Company
Reason for 
continuous 
transactions
Nature of 
transaction
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025 
(payable/ 
(advance))
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2024 
(payable/ 
(advance))
Transactions 
in. FY 2024-25
Transactions 
in FY 2023-24
El Shaddai Integrated 
Solutions India Private 
Limitedt
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
2.15
-
-
Enmax Global Technologies 
Pvt Ltd
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
1.25
-
-
FABER STAR FACILITIES 
MANAGEMENT LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
2.98
-
-
GANGA TOUR AND TRAVELS 
PVT LTD
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
(0.02)
-
11.14
GREEN PARK HOTELS AND 
RESORTS LTD
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
(0.05)
-
6.06
Indiavepro Medical 
Informatics (P) Ltd.,
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
-
-
1.11
INDICURE HEALTH TOURS 
PVT LTD
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
-
-
6.14
J.M. WEIGHTRONIX PVT. LTD.
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
(0.04)
(0.04)
0.79
0.88
Now N Next Concept Private 
Limited
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
0.11
0.11
-
-
Overseas Medical Services 
(India) Private Limited
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
71.85
71.85
-
-
PHONOGRAPHIC 
PERFORMANCE LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
(0.06)
-
1.65
-
ROCHE DIAGNOSTICS INDIA 
PVT LTD.
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
(0.17)
-
(0.17)
-
THERMADYNE PVT.LTD.
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
-
-
2.50
THOTWAVES INNOVATIONS 
PRIVATE LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
(0.40)
(0.40)
-
-
VLS HEALTHCARE PRIVATE 
LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
0.24
-
1.71
WIZZCARE HOME HEALTH 
SOLUTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED
Business 
requirement
Purchase of 
material/services
-
(0.18)
-
-
37. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
456
	
iii.	
No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the Group to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (“Intermediaries”) with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by 
or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries).
	
iv.	
The Group has not received any fund from any 
party(s) (Funding Party) with the understanding that 
the Company shall whether, directly or indirectly lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified by or 
on behalf of the Group (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
v.	
The Group has not granted any loans or advances 
in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs 
and the related parties (as defined under Companies 
Act, 2013) either severally or jointly with any other 
person that are repayable on demand or without 
specifying any terms or period of repayment.
	
vi.	
The Group does not have any such transaction 
which is not recorded in the books of accounts of 
the Group that has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in the tax assessment under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as search or survey or 
any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 
1961.
	
vii.	 The Group has complied with the number of layers 
prescribed under clause (87) of Section 2 of the Act.
	
viii.	 The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto 
currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
	
ix.	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the 
Reserve Bank of India and the Group (as per the 
provisions of the Core Investment Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have any 
CIC.
38. During the previous year, Trustee Manager of RHT Health 
Trust (“RHT”), an associate of the Company, filed an 
application before Hon’ble High Court of Singapore for 
winding-up of RHT. During the previous year in December 
2023, the Hon’ble Court has appointed liquidators for 
winding up of RHT. Further, RHT was delisted from the 
official List of the SGX-ST (Singapore) w.e.f. January 31 
2024.
Fortis Asia Healthcare Pte Ltd, a step-down subsidiary 
of the Company, has on February 21, 2025, acquired 
21,771,000 (2.68%) Units of RHT from Trustee Manager 
of RHT.
39. Agilus Diagnostics Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, 
had entered into a concession agreement dated April 30, 
2015 with Jharkhand Medical and Health Infrastructure 
Development and Procurement Corporation (a wholly 
owned undertaking of the Government of Jharkhand) 
(“JMHIDPC/ Authority”) for development, operation 
and maintenance of Pathology Centres on Public Private 
Partnership (PPP) Mode in Jharkhand, India. Further, 
Assignment agreement dated 12 August 2015 was 
executed between the Authority, Agilus Reach Limited 
(Agilus Reach) (subsidiary) and the Agilus Diagnostics 
Limited wherein the Agilus Diagnostics Limited had 
assigned the concession agreement to Agilus Reach.
	
The said concession agreement was for a period 10 years 
and is due to expire in June 2025. Agilus Reach has 
written a letter to the authority on its intention to not 
extend/ renew the agreement and discontinue providing 
pathological diagnostic services post expiry of the 
agreement. The balances outstanding in books that need 
to be settled include Trade Receivables of ` 473.10 Lakhs 
(net of provision of ` 467.43 Lakhs), Property, Plant and 
Equipment of ` 24.41 Lakhs and Concession fee payable 
(including interest) of ` 473.58 Lakhs. In response, the 
Authority sent a letter to Agilus Reach demanding the 
outstanding concession fee along with interest. The 
amount demanded by the Authority is fully provided for in 
37. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
457
the books of Agilus Reach. Agilus Reach has replied stating 
that as per the terms of the concession agreement, Agilus 
Reach has a right to offset the concession fee payable 
against the receivables outstanding from the Authority.
	
As at March 31, 2025, as the matter is under discussion 
with the Authority and the decision to offset is yet to be 
taken, accordingly the balances outstanding have been 
disclosed in financial statements on a gross basis. Agilus 
Diagnostics Limited has also obtained legal advice on this 
matter and believes that the balances outstanding are fully 
recoverable (either in cash or offset against the amounts 
payable to Authority).
40. Agilus Diagnostics Limited (“Agilus”), a subsidiary of the 
Company, had entered into an agreement for a period of 
two years with Directorate General of Health Services - 
Delhi Government (‘DGHS’) (the ‘Agreement’) to conduct 
diagnostic tests on the patients of the Aam Aadmi Mohalla 
Clinics. Under the Agreement and Standard Operating 
Procedure for Patient Related Processes, interacting with 
patients and collecting samples is the sole responsibility 
of staff at the Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics.
	
Agilus has recognised revenue of ` 824.21 Lakhs during 
the year (` 1,647.65 Lakhs in the previous year) under the 
said agreement, which is less than 2% of its consolidated 
revenue for the respective years. As at March 31, 2025, 
total receivables due amounts to ` 1,945.60 Lakhs.
	
Agilus, on January 18, 2024, received a notice from the 
Anti-Corruption Branch, Government of National Capital 
Territory of Delhi, in respect of alleged anomalies in 
diagnostic tests conducted in Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics. 
On January 18, 2024, Agilus also received a communication 
from DGHS that it is undertaking thorough scrutiny and 
verification following which the balance payments, if 
found rightfully due, would be released.
	
On May 10, 2024 and September 24, 2024, Agilus also 
received notices from Central Bureau of Investigation 
(CBI), Anti-Corruption Branch, New Delhi asking for 
certain documents/information to investigate the above 
matter. Agilus has submitted the requested information.
	
Agilus vide various communications to DGHS has stated 
that it has duly performed its obligations under the said 
Agreement for the samples collected and requested for 
immediate release of the outstanding amounts. Agilus 
had also filed a writ petition before Hon’ble Delhi High 
Court on August 03, 2024 seeking directions for payment 
of admitted outstanding in relation to the pathology 
services provided to DGHS, Delhi. In response to the same, 
DGHS has filed a counter affidavit to the writ petition 
alleging that Agilus has not met its obligations under 
the agreement. Agilus is in the process of filing rejoinder 
affidavit to the same. The matter is currently pending.
	
Subsequently on October 8, 2024, DGHS assured Agilus 
that:
	
•	
All undisputed bills w.e.f. March 2024 onwards will 
be cleared within a week’s time and all prospective 
bills shall be cleared in a timebound manner.
	
•	
Undisputed bills of the period from February 
2023 to February 2024 will be released basis 
recommendations of the committee constituted by 
DGHS.
	
During the year, Agilus received payment of ` 566.70 
Lakhs from DGHS in respect to sales invoices raised of 
` 870.28 Lakhs subsequent to February 2024.
	
The period of contract had expired on January 31, 2025. 
However, on various written request by DGHS, Agilus had 
extended the period of services from time to time till May 
23, 2025.
	
Considering the delays in recovering the outstanding 
amounts (for the period February 2023 to February 2024), 
Agilus has fully provided for ` 1,660.57 Lakhs during the 
year ended March 31, 2025.
	
The Group has been fully co-operating with the respective 
authorities in connection with the aforesaid notices and 
has been providing documents and information as sought 
by them. Pending completion of the proceedings, the 
ultimate outcome of the matter and its consequential 
impact, if any, is currently not ascertainable.
39. (Contd.)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FORTIS HEALTHCARE LIMITED
458
41. The healthcare business operates inter alia within two categories of entities within the Fortis Group i.e. operations entities and 
establishment entities. In order to consolidate the operations entities and establishment entities such that both operations 
and establishment of a hospital are housed in same entity, the Board of Directors of the Company consented to the demerger 
of certain healthcare operations from the operations entities into the establishment entities, which was also subsequently 
approved by the shareholders of the Company.
During the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, the Board of Directors of the respective Companies have also approved this 
intra group restructuring by way of a Composite Scheme of Arrangement. The scheme has been allowed by Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal- Delhi on May 09, 2025 and proceedings in connection thereto are sub-judice before Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal- Chandigarh.
For B S R & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Fortis Healthcare Limited
Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022
Rajesh Arora
Ashutosh Raghuvanshi
Indrajit Banerjee
Partner
Managing Director &
Independent Director
Membership Number: 076124
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 01365405
DIN: 02775637
Place: Gurugram
Satyendra Chauhan
Vivek Kumar Goyal
Date: May 20, 2025
Company Secretary
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No.: ACS14783
Place: Gurugram
Date: May 20, 2025
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Contd.)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
459
Registered Office:  
Fortis Healthcare Limited 
Sector - 62, Phase - VIII, Mohali, Punjab, India - 160062 
Tel: +91 172 5096001 Fax: +91 172 5096221 
Website: www.fortishealthcare.com
https://twitter.com/fortis_hospital
https://www.instagram.com/fortis.healthcare
https://www.facebook.com/fortishealth
https://youtube/fortis_hospital
