 
 
 
 
 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited   | Registered Office: 1 to 6 Floors, Ananta One (AR One), Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City 
Survey No. 1579, Shivajinagar Pune - 411005 Maharashtra   |   CIN: L66010PN2016PLC167410   |   IRDAI Reg. No: 158 
 
Website www.godigit.com                 Email Id: hello@godigit.com                           Toll free 1800-258-5956 
 
 
Date: 14th July 2025 
 
To, 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001  
BSE Scrip Code: 544179 
To,  
National Stock Exchange of India Limited  
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051  
NSE Symbol: GODIGIT 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Subject: Notice of 9th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and Annual Report for FY 2024-25 
 
This is in furtherance to our letter dated 10th July 2025, informing about the convening of 9th Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of the Company on Wednesday, 6th August 2025 at 3:00 P.M. 
(IST)) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”). 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 and 34 read with Paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), we are 
enclosing herewith the following: 
 
i. 
Notice of the 9th AGM of the Company (including e-voting instructions). 
ii. 
Annual Report of the Company for the Financial Year (FY) ended 31st March 2025 including 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) of the Company for FY2025. 
 
The Annual Report for the FY 2024-25 and the Notice of the 9th AGM are also available on the Company's 
website at the link i.e., https://www.godigit.com/investor-relations. 
 
Further, in compliance with circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA Circulars”) and 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI Circulars”), copies of the Annual Report for the FY 
2024-25 and Notice of the AGM of the Company (including E-voting instructions) are being sent through 
electronic mode to all the Members whose email addresses are registered with the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent viz. MUFG Intime India Private Limited (earlier known as “Link Intime India Private 
Limited”) or the Depository Participant(s). A letter containing the web-link including the exact path 
where complete details of the Annual Report is available, is being sent to those Members who have not 
registered their email address with the DPs / Company / RTA. A copy of letter is also enclosed herewith. 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder, 
as amended from time to time and read with MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the Company is pleased 
to provide all its Members the facility to exercise their vote electronically at the AGM of the Company, 
on all resolutions set forth in the Notice of the AGM Members of the Company holding shares either in 
physical or in dematerialized form as on the closure of business hours of the cut-off date, i.e., 
Wednesday, 30th July, 2025 (“cut-off date”), may exercise their votes electronically. A person whose 
name is recorded in the Register of Members or in the Register of Beneficial Owners maintained with 
the Depositories as on the cut-off date only shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote e-voting.  
 
The remote e-voting period begins on Saturday, 2nd August 2025, at 09:00 A.M. (IST) and ends on 
Tuesday, 5th August 2025, at 05:00 P.M. (IST). The detailed instructions for remote e-voting have been 
provided in the Notice of the AGM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited   | Registered Office: 1 to 6 Floors, Ananta One (AR One), Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City 
Survey No. 1579, Shivajinagar Pune - 411005 Maharashtra   |   CIN: L66010PN2016PLC167410   |   IRDAI Reg. No: 158 
 
Website www.godigit.com                 Email Id: hello@godigit.com                           Toll free 1800-258-5956 
 
Kindly take the above intimation on record.   
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully,  
For Go Digit General Insurance Limited  
 
 
Tejas Saraf 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
 
Encl: as above 
 
TEJAS SARAF
Digitally signed by TEJAS 
SARAF 
Date: 2025.07.14 21:45:34 
+05'30'
NOTICE OF THE NINTH (9TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the 9th Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of the Members of Go Digit General Insurance 
Limited (the “Company”) will be held on Wednesday, 
August 6, 2025 at 3:00 p.m. through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”), to transact 
the business as set out in this Notice. The proceedings of 
the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the registered 
office of the Company at Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane, 
Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No. 1579, Shivajinagar, 
Pune – 411005.
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To consider and adopt the audited financial 
statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended as at March 31, 2025 together with the reports 
of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon.
2.	
To appoint a director in place of Kamesh Goyal 
(DIN: 01816985), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
3.	
Appointment of Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries 
as Secretarial Auditors for a term of five (5) 
consecutive years and in this regard, to consider and 
if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), 
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 204, and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Appointment 
& 
Remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 as amended, Regulation 24A 
and other applicable Regulations of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
including any statutory amendment(s),modification(s), 
variation(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force and based on the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee and approval of the Board of 
Directors of the Company, consent of the Members 
be and is hereby accorded to appoint Kanj & Co. LLP, 
Company Secretaries (Firm Registration Number 
P2000MH005900), 
a 
peer 
reviewed 
Company 
Secretary firm, as Secretarial Auditors of the 
GO DIGIT GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED
Registered Office: 1st to 6th Floor, Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi,
City Survey No. 1579, Shivajinagar Pune - 411005 Maharashtra, India
Phone No.: 1800-258-5956
Website: www.godigit.com
CIN: L66010PN2016PLC167410
Company for a term of five (5) consecutive years with 
effect from April 1, 2025 till March 31, 2030, at such 
remuneration and on such terms and conditions as 
may be determined by the Board of Directors of the 
Company from time to time, in consultation with the 
Secretarial Auditor, and to avail any other services, 
certificates, or reports as may be permissible under 
applicable laws.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any of the Directors or 
the Company Secretary, be and are hereby severally 
authorized to issue certified true copies of these 
resolutions to various authorities and to file necessary 
forms with the Registrar of Companies, Maharashtra 
at Pune and other authorities and to do all such acts, 
deeds, matters and things as may be required to be 
done to give effect to the above resolution.”
4.	
Revision in Remuneration of Jasleen Kohli (DIN: 
07634112), Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company for financial year 2025-26 
and in this regard, to consider and if thought fit, to 
pass with or without modification(s), the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 34A of the Insurance Act, 1938, applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the rules made thereunder, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
applicable 
regulation(s), guideline(s), circular(s) issued by the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India (“IRDAI”) (including any statutory amendment(s), 
modification(s), variation(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force) and other applicable laws 
(together referred to as “Applicable Laws”) applicable 
provisions of the Articles of Association of the 
Company, as recommended by the Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Board 
of Directors of the Company and subject to approval 
of IRDAI, Jasleen Kohli (DIN: 07634112), Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, 
be paid a fixed remuneration (including provident 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
1
fund and gratuity) of ₹ 3,92,27,401/- (Rupees Three 
Crore Ninety Two Lakh Twenty Seven Thousand Four 
Hundred and One only) for the financial year 2025-
26 which includes leave encashment, provident fund, 
gratuity, life insurance, personal accident insurance, 
group medicare policy, and any other benefits, as per 
the policy of the Company as in force from time to 
time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions 
of the Applicable Laws and applicable provisions of 
the Articles of Association of the Company, based on 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Board of Directors 
of the Company and subject to approval of IRDAI, 
Jasleen Kohli (DIN: 07634112), Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, in addition 
to the fixed remuneration shall also be entitled to 
variable pay linked to her performance not exceeding 
₹ 3,85,26,412/- (Rupees Three Crore Eighty Five Lakhs 
Twenty Six Thousand Four Hundred and Twelve only) 
per annum, which includes cash component and 
non-cash component comprising of Employee Stock 
Options, in accordance with the relevant scheme of 
the Company in this regard and /or as approved by 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee or 
Board of Directors as per the remuneration policy of 
the Company.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company (“Board” which expression shall 
also include the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee thereof) be and is hereby severally 
authorised to determine, or revise, or alter and vary 
the remuneration structure, including amount and/or 
any parameters, of Jasleen Kohli, as may be agreed 
with her, to comply with IRDAI or any other regulatory 
or statutory directives and to settle any questions 
or difficulties that may arise in connection with, or 
incidental to give effect to the above resolution.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board and/or any 
other person(s) authorised by the Board in this 
regard, be and is/are hereby authorised on behalf of 
the Company to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things and take all such steps as may be necessary, 
proper or expedient including filing of the requisite 
forms or submission of documents with any Authority 
for the purpose of giving effect to this resolution 
and for matters connected therewith, or incidental 
thereof.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
of Go Digit General Insurance Limited
sd/-
Tejas Saraf
Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer
ACS No.: 26225
Place: Pune
Date: July 9, 2025
Registered Office: 1 to 6 Floor, Ananta One, Pride 
Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No.1579, 
Shivajinagar, Pune, Maharashtra, India, 411005
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
2
NOTES:
1.	
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”) or any Other Audio-Visual Means 
(“OAVM”):
	
Pursuant to the General Circular No. 09/2024 dated 
September 19, 2024, issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CFDPoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated October 3, 
2024 issued by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (“SEBI”) (“the Circulars”), companies are 
allowed to hold AGM through VC/OAVM, without the 
physical presence of members at a common venue. 
Hence, in compliance with the Circulars, the AGM is 
being held through VC/OAVM. The deemed venue 
for the 9th AGM shall be the registered office of the 
Company.
2.	
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), with respect to the 
Special Business to be transacted at the 9th AGM is 
annexed hereto.
3.	
A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT 
THE AGM IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO 
ATTEND AND VOTE INSTEAD OF HIMSELF AND THE 
PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER OF THE COMPANY. 
SINCE THIS AGM IS BEING HELD IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH THE CIRCULARS THROUGH VC/OAVM, THE 
FACILITY FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF PROXIES 
BY THE MEMBERS WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE. 
ACCORDINGLY, THE ATTENDANCE SLIP, PROXY 
FORM AND ROUTE MAP ARE NOT ANNEXED TO 
THIS NOTICE.
4.	
Corporate Members intending to authorise their 
representatives to participate and vote at the 
Meeting are requested to send to the Company and 
to the scrutinizer by email a certified true copy of the 
Board Resolution / authorization letter authorizing 
their representative to attend and vote on their behalf 
at the Meeting not later than 48 hours before the 
scheduled time of the commencement of the AGM.
5.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM 
mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled 
time of the commencement of the AGM by following 
the procedure mentioned hereunder. The facility of 
participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be 
made available for 1000 members on first come first 
served basis. This will not include large shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors 
etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM without 
restriction on account of first come first served basis.
6.	
Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM will 
be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum 
under Section 103 of the Act.
7.	
In compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, 
Rules made thereunder, SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Circulars, Notice of the 9th AGM along with the Annual 
Report 2024-25 is being sent only through electronic 
mode to those Members whose e-mail addresses 
are registered with the Company/Depositories as 
on Friday, July 4, 2025. Members may note that the 
Annual Report 2024-25 and Notice of AGM will 
be available at https://www.godigit.com/investor-
relations and will also be available on the websites 
of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.
com and www.nseindia.com, respectively, and on the 
website of the remote e-voting service provider viz. 
NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
In compliance with Regulation 36 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, a letter providing the web-link of the 
Annual Report 2024-25, is being sent to the Members 
who have not registered their e-mail address with the 
Company/Depositories.
8.	
Physical copy of the Annual Report 2024-25 and 
the Notice of the 9th AGM shall be sent only to those 
Members who specifically request for the same. 
Accordingly, Members who wish to obtain a physical 
copy of the Annual Report for the financial year 2024-
25, may write to the Company at cs@godigit.com 
requesting for the same by providing their holding 
details and DP ID and Client ID/Folio No.
9.	
Members are requested to intimate any change in their 
address or e-mail ids to their Depository Participants 
immediately with whom they are maintaining their 
demat accounts. To prevent fraudulent transactions, 
Members are advised to exercise due diligence and 
notify the Company/Depositories of any change in 
address or demise of any Member as soon as possible. 
Members are also advised not to leave their demat 
account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statement of 
holdings should be obtained from the concerned 
Depository Participants and holdings should be 
verified from time to time.
10.	 In terms of the Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-
PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated March 16, 2023 and SEBI/
HO/ MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/181 dated November 
17, 2023, the SEBI has mandated the submission 
of Permanent Account Number (PAN), Nomination, 
Contact details, Bank A/c details, and Specimen 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
3
signature for their corresponding folio numbers by 
every participant in the securities market. Members 
holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, 
requested to submit their PAN, if not submitted 
already, to their Depository Participants with whom 
they are maintaining their demat accounts.
11.	 As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, 
the facility for making nomination is available 
for the Members in respect of the shares held by 
them. Members who have not yet registered their 
nomination are requested to register the same by 
submitting Form No. SH-13. If a Member desires to 
opt out or cancel the earlier nomination and record 
a fresh nomination, he/she may submit the same in 
Form ISR-3 or SH-14 as the case may be. The said 
forms can be downloaded from the website of the 
Registrar & Transfer Agent (“RTA”) of the Company 
at 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/KYC-downloads. 
Members are requested to submit the said details to 
their DP for the shares held by them in dematerialized 
form.
12.	 A Member shall first take up his/her/their grievance 
with the RTA of the Company by lodging a complaint 
directly and if the grievance is not redressed 
satisfactorily, the Member may forward his/her 
complaint to the Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer of the Company or may register their grievance 
on the SEBI SCORES platform in accordance with the 
process laid out therein. If the Member is not satisfied 
with the outcome, he/she/they can initiate dispute 
resolution through the Online Dispute Resolution 
Portal. The framework for investor grievance redressal 
has been provided on the website of the Company at 
www.godigit.com/investor-relations for ease of the 
Members.
13.	 As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended from time to time, the transfer, 
transmission, and transposition of the securities of the 
listed entities shall be effected only in dematerialized 
form.
14.	 The relevant details, pursuant to Regulations 36 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standards 
on General Meetings issued by ICSI (“SS-2”), in 
respect of appointment/ re-appointment of Directors 
and Auditors at this AGM are annexed to this Notice.
15.	 The Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding maintained under 
Section 170 of the Act and Register of Contracts 
or arrangements in which directors are interested 
maintained under Section 189 of the Act and 
relevant documents referred to in this Notice of AGM 
including the explanatory statement are available for 
inspection by the Members at the registered office of 
the Company on all working days, except Saturday, 
Sunday and National Holidays, during business hours 
from the date hereof up to the date of the Meeting 
and will also be available electronically for inspection 
by the Members on their request during the AGM.
16.	 The Certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company certifying that the Company’s Employees 
Stock Option Scheme, are being implemented in 
accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 
is available for inspection by the Members at 
the registered office and will also be available 
electronically for inspection by the Members at their 
request during the AGM.
17.	 Members desiring any information as regards to 
financial statements are requested to write to the 
Company at cs@godigit.com, by Wednesday, July 30, 
2025, so as to enable the management to keep the 
information ready.
18.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act 
read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 (“Management 
Rules”), SS-2 and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the 
Company is providing facility of remote e-Voting to its 
Members in respect of the business to be transacted 
at the AGM. For this purpose, the Company has 
entered into an agreement with National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) for facilitating voting 
through electronic means, as the authorized agency. 
The facility of casting votes by a Member using remote 
e-Voting system as well as e-voting on the date of the 
AGM will be provided by NSDL.
19.	 The remote e-Voting period begins on Saturday, 
August 2, 2025 at 09:00 A.M. (IST) and ends on 
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 at 05:00 P.M. (IST). The 
remote e-Voting module shall be disabled by NSDL 
for voting thereafter. The Members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members/ Beneficial Owners 
as on the cut-off date i.e., Wednesday, July 30, 2025 
may cast their vote electronically.
20.	 The facility for voting through e-voting system shall 
also be made available during the AGM. Members 
attending the AGM who have not cast their vote by 
remote e-voting shall be eligible to cast their vote 
through e-voting during the AGM. Members who 
have voted through remote e-voting shall be eligible 
to attend the AGM, however, they shall not be eligible 
to vote at the AGM.
21.	 The voting right of Member shall be in proportion to 
their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
4
Company as on the cut-off date, Wednesday, July 
30, 2025. Once the vote on a resolution is cast by 
the Member, he/she shall not be allowed to change 
it subsequently. A person who is not a Member as on 
the cut-off date should treat this Notice of AGM for 
information purpose only.
22.	 In case of joint holders attending the AGM, only such 
joint holder who is higher in the order of names will be 
entitled to vote.
23.	 The Board of Directors has appointed M/s. Kishor 
Kulkarni & Co., Practicing Company Secretaries as 
the Scrutinizer for scrutinizing the process of remote 
e-Voting and e-Voting during the AGM in a fair and 
transparent manner.
24.	 The results of remote e-Voting and e-voting at the 
AGM shall be declared by the Chairman or by any other 
Director or Company Secretary duly authorised in this 
regard. The results declared along with the Report 
of the Scrutinizer shall be placed on the Company’s 
website 
https://www.godigit.com/investor-relations 
and also be displayed on the Notice Board of the 
Company at its Registered Office and on the website 
of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ immediately 
after the results are declared and simultaneously 
communicated to the Stock Exchanges in compliance 
with Regulation 44(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The Resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on 
the date of the AGM, i.e. Wednesday, August 6, 2025 
subject to receipt of the requisite number of votes in 
favour of the Resolutions.
25.	 NSDL e-Voting Instructions:
	
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
REMOTE E-VOTING ARE AS UNDER:-
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Saturday, 
August 2, 2025 at 09:00 A.M. and ends on Tuesday, 
August 5, 2025 at 05:00 P.M. The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 
thereafter. The Members, whose names appear in 
the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as on 
the record date (cut-off date) i.e. Wednesday, July 
30, 2025, may cast their vote electronically. Members 
who have not cast their votes during aforementioned 
dates, may cast their votes through e-voting platform 
made available during the AGM. The voting right of 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in 
the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as 
on the cut-off date, being Wednesday, July 30, 2025.
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL 
e-Voting system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting 
system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned 
below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A)	 Login method for e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI Circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and 
email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode 
with 
NSDL.
1.	
OTP based login:
	
i)	
Click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/evotinglogin.jsp
	
ii)	
Enter our 8 digit DP ID, 8 digit Client Id, PAN, Verification code and generate 
OTP.
	
iii)	
Enter the OTP received on your registered email address/mobile number 
and click on login.
	
iv)	
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL site wherein 
you can see e-voting page.
	
v)	
Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will 
be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining AGM and e-voting during the meeting.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
5
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
2.	
Users already registered for IDeAS facility:
	
i)	
Visit e-services website of NSDL viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
ii)	
On the homepage, click on the ‘Beneficial Owner’ icon under ‘Login’ 
available under ‘IDeAS’ section.
	
iii)	
Enter User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be 
able to see e-voting services under Value added services. Click on ‘Access 
to e-Voting’ under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting 
page.
	
iv)	
Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL. You will be 
redirected to e-voting website of NSDL to cast your vote during the remote 
e-voting period or joining AGM and e-voting during the AGM.
3.	
User not registered for IDeAS facility:
	
Click on link: https://eservices.nsdl.com and select ‘Register Online for IDeAS 
Portal’. or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/evotinglogin.jsp
4.	
Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-voting website of NSDL:
	
i)	
Visit e-voting website of NSDL viz. https://www.evoting.nsdl.com either on 
a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
ii)	
Click on the icon ‘Login’ available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
iii)	
On the Login page, enter your User ID (i.e. your 16 digit demat account 
number held with NSDL), Password/ OTP and a verification code as shown 
on the screen.
	
iv)	
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website 
wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on Company name or e-voting 
service provider i.e. NSDL. You will be re-directed to e-voting website of 
NSDL to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining AGM 
and e-voting during the AGM.
5.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” 
facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting 
experience.
Individual Shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat mode with CDSL
1.	
User already registered for Easi/Easiest:
	
i)	
Visit www.cdslindia.com and click on ‘Login’ and select ‘New System 
Myeasi’.
	
ii)	
Enter your User ID and Password. Option will be made available to reach 
e-voting page without any further authentication.
	
iii)	
After successful login, the user will be able to see the e-voting option.
	
	
On clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-voting page 
of the e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL for casting vote during the remote 
e-voting period or joining AGM and e-voting during the AGM. Additionally, 
there is also links provided to access the system of all e-voting service 
providers, so that the user can visit the e-voting service providers’ website 
directly.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
6
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
2.	
User not registered for Easi/Easiest:
	
i)	
Option to register is available at: https://web.cdslindia.com
	
ii)	
Click on ‘Login’ and select ‘New System Myeasi’ and then click on registration 
option.
	
iii)	
After successful registration, follow steps mentioned for registration.
3.	
Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL:
	
i)	
Visit www.cdslindia.com and select ‘E Voting’.
	
ii)	
Enter your demat account number in the BOID requirement field and PAN 
in the respective field.
	
iii)	
System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile Number 
and Email address as recorded in the demat account.
	
iv)	
After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option 
where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system 
of all e-voting service providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode) 
login 
through 
their 
depository participants
1.	
You can login using the credentials of your demat account through your DP 
registered with NSDL/CDSL, for e-voting facility.
2.	
Once logged-in, you will be able to see ‘e-Voting’ option. Once you click on 
‘e-Voting’ option and after successful authentication, you will be re-directed to 
e-voting module of NSDL/CDSL wherein you can see e-Voting feature.
3.	
Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-voting website of NSDL to cast your vote during the remote 
e-voting period or join AGM and e-voting during the AGM.
	
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues 
related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 
- 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or contact at toll free no. 1800 21 09911
	
	
Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical 
mode:
	
	
How to Log-in to NSDL E-voting website?
	
	
I.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a personal computer or on a mobile.
	
	
II.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon ‘Login’ which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
7
	
	
III.	
A new screen will open. You will have to 
enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a 
verification code as shown on the screen.
	
	
IV.	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL 
e-services i.e. IDeAS, you can login at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/ 
with 
your 
existing 
IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL 
e-services after using your login credentials, 
click on e-voting and you can proceed to 
Step 2 i.e. cast your vote electronically.
	
	
V.	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or 
Physical
Your User ID is:
For Members who 
hold shares in 
demat account with 
NSDL
8 Character DP ID 
followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID For example if 
your DP ID is IN300*** 
and
Client ID is 12******then 
your user ID is 
IN300***12******
For Members who 
hold shares in 
demat account with 
CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your 
Beneficiary ID is 
12************** 
then your user ID is 
12**************
For Members 
holding shares in 
Physical Form
EVEN Number followed 
by Folio Number 
registered with the 
company
For example if folio 
number is 001*** and 
EVEN is 134526 then 
user ID is 134526001***
	
	
VI.	 Password details for shareholders other 
than Individual shareholders are given 
below:
	
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for 
e-Voting, then you can use your 
existing password to login and cast 
your vote.
	
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system 
for the first time, you will need to 
retrieve the ‘initial password’ which 
was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and 
the system will force you to change 
your password.
	
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
	
i)	
If your email ID is registered in 
your demat account or with the 
company, your ‘initial password’ 
is communicated to you on your 
email ID. Trace the email sent to 
you from NSDL from your mailbox. 
Open the email and open the 
attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open 
the .pdf file. The password to 
open the .pdf file is your 8 digit 
client ID for NSDL account, last 
8 digits of client ID for CDSL 
account or folio number for shares 
held in physical form. The .pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
	
ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned 
below 
in 
process 
for 
those 
shareholders whose email ids are 
not registered.
	
	
VII.	 If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received the “Initial password” or have 
forgotten your password:
	
	
	
a)	
Click 
on 
“Forgot 
User 
Details/
Password?” (If you are holding shares 
in your demat account with NSDL 
or CDSL) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
b)	
Click 
on 
“Physical 
User 
Reset 
Password?” (If you are holding shares 
in physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the 
password by aforesaid two options, 
you can send a request at evoting@
nsdl.com 
mentioning 
your 
demat 
account number/folio number, PAN, 
name and registered address.
	
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One 
Time Password) based login for casting 
the votes on the e-Voting system of 
NSDL.
	
	
VIII.	 After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on 
the check box.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
8
	
	
IX.	 Now, you will have to click on “Login” 
button.
	
	
X.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-Voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting 
system.
	
How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL 
e-Voting system?
	
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you 
are holding shares and whose voting cycle is in 
active status.
	
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period. 
or e-voting during the General Meeting. For 
joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/
OAVM” link placed under “Join General Meeting”.
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number 
of shares for which you wish to cast your vote 
and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when 
prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
	
General Guidelines for shareholders
	
1.	
Institutional 
shareholders 
(i.e. 
other 
than 
individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the 
relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter 
etc. with attested specimen signature of 
the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are 
authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail 
to cskishorkulkarni@gmail.com with a copy 
marked 
to 
evoting@nsdl.com. 
Institutional 
shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, 
NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution 
/ Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by 
clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority 
Letter” displayed under “e-Voting” tab in 
their login.
	
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon 
five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct 
password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” 
or “Physical User Reset Password?” option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the 
password.
	
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the 
Frequently 
Asked 
Questions 
(FAQs) 
for 
Shareholders and e-voting user manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section 
of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on : 022 - 4886 
7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, 
Senior Manager at evoting@nsdl.com
	
Process for those shareholders whose email 
ids are not registered with the depositories 
for procuring user id and password and 
registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the 
resolutions set out in this notice:
	
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode, please 
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), 
PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) by email to cs@godigit.com.
	
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please 
provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 
digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master or copy 
of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self-
attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR 
(self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) 
to cs@godigit.com. If you are an Individual 
shareholder, holding securities in demat mode, 
you are requested to refer to the login method 
explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for 
e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode.
	
3.	
Alternatively Shareholder/Members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
	
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 
2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed 
Companies, Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode are allowed to vote 
through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories 
and 
Depository 
Participants. 
Shareholders are required to update their mobile 
number and email id correctly in their demat 
account in order to access e-Voting facility.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
9
26.	 Procedure for e-voting during the AGM:
	
a)	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM is same as the instructions mentioned 
above for remote e-Voting.
	
b)	
The e-voting window shall be activated upon 
instructions of the Chairperson of the Meeting 
during the AGM.
	
c)	
Only those Members/ Shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM and have not casted their 
vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting 
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, 
shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting system 
in the AGM.
	
d)	
Members who have voted through remote 
e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. 
However, they will not be eligible to vote at the 
AGM.
	
e)	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility 
for e-voting on the day of the AGM shall be the 
same person mentioned for Remote e-Voting.
27.	 Instructions for Members for Attending the AGM 
Through VC/OAVM:
	
a)	
Members will be able to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM provided by NSDL at https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com by following the steps 
mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system.
	
	
After successful login, click on the link of ‘VC/
OAVM’ placed under ‘Join Meeting’ menu against 
Company 
name 
available 
in 
Shareholder/ 
Member login where EVEN of Company will be 
displayed. Please note that the members who do 
not have the User ID and Password for e-Voting 
or have forgotten the User ID and Password 
may retrieve the same by following the remote 
e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice to 
avoid last minute rush.
	
b)	
Members can join the AGM through VC/ OAVM 
15 minutes before the scheduled time of the 
commencement of the Meeting by following the 
procedure mentioned in this Notice.
	
c)	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through laptops for better experience.
	
d)	
Please note that participants connecting from 
mobile devices or tablets or through laptop 
connecting via mobile hotspot may experience 
audio/video loss due to fluctuation in their 
respective network. It is therefore recommended 
to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate 
any kind of aforesaid glitches.
28.	 Speaker Registration Before AGM
	
a)	
Members who would like to express their views/
ask questions during the AGM may register 
themselves as a speaker by sending their request 
from their registered e-mail address mentioning 
their name, DP ID and Client ID/ folio number 
and mobile number at cs@godigit.com from 9:00 
a.m. (IST) on Friday, August 1, 2025 to 5:00 p.m. 
(IST) on Tuesday, August 5, 2025.
	
b)	
Those Members who have registered themselves 
as a speaker will only be allowed to express 
their views/ask questions during the AGM. The 
Company reserves the right to restrict the number 
of speakers, depending on the availability of time 
at the AGM.
	
c)	
For the smooth conduct of proceedings of the 
AGM, Members are encouraged to send their 
queries in advance mentioning their name, DPID 
and Client ID /folio number, mobile number on 
or before 5:00 p.m. (IST) on Tuesday, August 5, 
2025 at cs@godigit.com.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
10
Item no. 3 of the Notice:
Appointment of Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries 
as Secretarial Auditors for a term of five (5) consecutive 
years
The Board of Directors of the Company at its Meeting 
held on January 22, 2025, based on the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, approved the appointment of 
Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration 
Number: P2000MH005900) as the Secretarial Auditor of 
the Company, in accordance with Section 204 of the Act 
read with the rules made thereunder and Regulation 24A 
of SEBI Listing Regulations for a term of five years with 
effect from April 1, 2025 till March 31, 2030 subject to the 
approval of the Members at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting of the Company, at a remuneration as may be 
approved by the Board from time to time.
Based on the eligibility criteria and qualification prescribed 
under the Act, rules made thereunder and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, Kanj & Co. LLP has confirmed that they are 
not disqualified and are eligible to be appointed as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for the proposed term. 
The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee have 
considered the capability, assurance, audit experience, 
the audits conducted by them in the past, nature of work 
involved and services offered while recommending the 
appointment of Kanj & Co. LLP as Secretarial Auditor of 
the Company.
Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries, has given its 
consent to act as Secretarial Auditor of the Company and 
holds a valid peer review certificate issued by the Peer 
Review Board of the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (“ICSI”) as required under Regulation 24A of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries has confirmed that 
appointment would be within the prescribed limits under 
the Act read with the rules made thereunder and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Kanj & Co. LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership Firm 
incorporated in India and was formed in the year 2000 
with 5 partners and has now grown to more than 12 
partners, 60+ employees, managers and interns and 
10+ administrative staff. KANJ has network of practicing 
company secretaries across India. The firm is primarily 
engaged in Corporate and Listing Compliance, Foreign 
Exchange Management (“FEMA”) laws, Securities Law, 
and other advisory services to its clients.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company or their relatives are concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT SETTING OUT THE MATERIAL FACTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 (1) OF 
THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
The Board recommends passing the resolution at Item No. 
3 of the accompanying Notice for approval of the Members 
of the Company as an Ordinary Resolution.
Item no. 4 of the Notice:
Revision in Remuneration of Jasleen Kohli (DIN: 
07634112), Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 
of the Company for financial year 2025-26
Jasleen Kohli was appointed as the Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer (“MD & CEO”) of the Company for 
a period of five (5) years with effect from April 20, 2022 
till April 19, 2027, in accordance with the provisions of 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and as per the approval of 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
(“IRDAI”) pursuant to Section 34A of the Insurance Act, 
1938. As per the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and Board of Directors 
of the Company (“Board”), the Members had approved the 
remuneration of MD & CEO for financial year 2024-25 in 
their 8th Annual General Meeting held on August 14, 2025 
and the same was subsequently approved by the IRDAI 
vide its letters dated December 19, 2024 and March 18, 
2025.
Based on the recommendations of the NRC, as a part 
of annual compensation review, and considering the 
performance of the Company, the Board vide its resolution 
dated June 30, 2025 and subject to the approval of IRDAI, 
approved the revision in remuneration of Jasleen Kohli, MD 
& CEO for the financial year 2025-26.
The fixed remuneration includes basic pay, house rent 
allowance, education allowance, leave travel allowance, 
other allowances, contribution to provident fund and 
gratuity and all other benefits as are applicable to the MD 
& CEO and / or senior employees of the Company as per 
the Company’s remuneration policies and as approved by 
the NRC or Board, from time to time.
Jasleen Kohli, will be entitled to insurance cover and other 
perquisites, in accordance with the Company policy from 
the time and as approved by the NRC or Board subject to 
overall ceiling of her annual remuneration.
The performance based variable pay shall be inclusive 
of cash component and non-cash component including 
share-linked instruments (stock options) as may be 
determined by the NRC and Board as per the Company’s 
remuneration policy and in line with the IRDAI Master 
Circular on Corporate Governance for Insurers, 2024 
(“CG Master Circular”), as amended from time to time 
and as approved by the IRDAI. The variable pay shall 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
11
be determined subject to performance achieved by the 
Company, individual performance of the MD & CEO and 
other applicable parameters as prescribed by the NRC 
and Board. The variable pay shall be subject to deferment 
as per the applicable law and Company’s remuneration 
policy.
The Members may note that the variable pay mentioned in 
the resolution is the upper ceiling and the actual amount of 
variable pay shall be as determined by the NRC and Board 
based on the criteria approved by the IRDAI.
The Company being an Indian insurance company in 
terms of the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to 
time, the provisions relating to remuneration of Managing 
Director/ Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officer 
are regulated and governed by the Insurance Act 1938, 
the regulations made there under and CG Master Circular. 
Therefore, the revision in remuneration is also subject 
to the prior approval of IRDAI under Section 34A of the 
Insurance Act, 1938.
The proposed remuneration for financial year 2025-
26 and other particulars of Jasleen Kohli are detailed in 
Annexure I of this Notice.
Except Jasleen Kohli and her relatives, none of the Directors 
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and/or 
their relatives are concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise, in the said resolution.
Jasleen Kohli is not related to any of the Director 
or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company. The 
Board recommends the resolution at Item No. 4 of the 
accompanying Notice for approval of the Members of the 
Company as an Ordinary Resolution.
ANNEXURE I
Information as required under SS-2 and Regulation 30 and Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a statement 
containing details of the concerned Directors as on date of the AGM Notice is given hereunder:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Details
1.
Name of Director
Kamesh Goyal
Jasleen Kohli
2.
DIN
01816985
07634112
3.
Age
59 years
45 years
4.
Qualification
MBA, LLB, B.Sc., Associate of the Insurance 
Institute of India
Post Graduate Diploma in Business 
Management
5.
A brief resume of the 
director and experience
Kamesh Goyal is the Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Company and a nominee 
of Go Digit Infoworks Services Private 
Limited (“GDISPL”), the holding company, 
and has been a Director of the Company 
since its incorporation. He is also one of 
the Promoters of the Company. He holds 
a bachelor’s degree in science from the 
University of Delhi. He holds a bachelor’s 
degree in law and master’s degree 
in business administration from the 
University of Delhi. He has several years 
of experience in the insurance industry 
and has served as the Chief Executive 
Officer of Bajaj Allianz General Insurance 
Company Limited and Bajaj Allianz Life 
Insurance Company Limited. He is also 
an associate of the Insurance Institute of 
India.
Jasleen Kohli has attended the K J Somaiya 
Institute of Management Studies and 
Research for post graduate programme in 
management studies.
She has several years of experience in 
the insurance industry and has served as 
the Head of Operations at Bajaj Allianz 
General 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited 
earlier.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
12
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Details
6.
Terms and conditions of 
appointment (along with 
details of remuneration 
sought to be paid and 
the remuneration last 
drawn by such person, if 
applicable)
Kamesh Goyal is proposed to be re-
appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
who shall be liable to retire by rotation.
He was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Company with effect 
from December 7, 2016. Pursuant to the 
IRDAI (Corporate Governance for Insurers) 
Regulations, 2024 read with Master 
Circular on Corporate Governance for 
Insurers, 2024, the Board of Directors on 
recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, has approved 
appointment of Kamesh Goyal as Non-
Executive Chairman of the Company for a 
period of 5 years w.e.f. October 24, 2024, 
subject to the approval of the IRDAI. The 
IRDAI vide its letter dated June 11, 2025, 
has approved his appointment.
He shall not draw any remuneration from 
the Company.
Remuneration last drawn: Nil
Jasleen Kohli has been appointed as the 
Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company for a period of five 
(5) years with effect from April 20, 2022.
Proposed remuneration for financial year 
2025-26, subject to approval of IRDAI and 
the members as detailed in Agenda no. 4 
is:
Fixed: ₹ 3,92,27,401/-
Variable: ₹ 3,85,26,412/-
Details of Remuneration drawn in FY 
2024-25 forms part of the Annual Report.
7.
Date of first appointment 
on the Board and term
Kamesh Goyal was appointed w.e.f. 
December 7, 2016 till cessation.
Jasleen Kohli was appointed as Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. 
April 20, 2022 for a period of five (5) years.
8.
Shareholding in the 
listed entity, including 
shareholding as a 
beneficial owner
As at March 31, 2025 -
Shareholding in Company: Nil
Beneficial ownership through GDISPL: 
38.02%
As at March 31, 2025 -
Shareholding in Company: 1,50,000
9.
Relationship with other 
Directors, Manager, and 
other Key Managerial 
Personnel of the 
Company
None
None
10.
Number of Meetings 
of the Board attended 
during the year
FY 2025-26: Present in 1 Board Meetings 
(Total Meetings- 1).
FY 2024-25: Present in 10 Board Meetings 
(Total Meetings- 11)
FY 2025-26: Present in 1 Board Meetings 
(Total Meetings- 1).
FY 2024-25: Present in 11 Board Meetings 
(Total Meetings- 11)
11.
Other Directorships
Director in:
1.	
Valueattics Reinsurance Limited
2.	
Go Digit Infoworks Services Private 
Limited
3.	
Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
None
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
13
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Details
12.
Membership/ 
Chairmanship of 
Committees of other 
Boards
4.	
Valueattics Reinsurance Limited
	
•	
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee- Member
	
•	
Investment Committee- Member
	
•	
Risk Management Committee- 
Member
5.	
Go Digit Infoworks Services Private 
Limited
	
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee- Chairman
6.	
Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
	
•	
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee- Member
	
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee- Member
	
•	
Policyholder 
Protection, 
Grievance Redressal and Claims 
Monitoring Committee- Member
	
•	
Risk Management Committee- 
Member
	
•	
Investment Committee- Member
None
13.
Names of listed entities 
in which the person also 
holds the directorship 
and the membership of 
Committees of the board
None
None
14.
Listed entities from which 
the person has resigned 
in the past three years;
None
None
15.
In case of independent 
directors, the skills and 
capabilities required for 
the role and the manner 
in which the proposed 
person meets such 
requirements
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
16.
Nature of expertise in 
specific functional areas
Law 
and 
Governance, 
Business 
Management and Strategy, Insurance 
& Risk Management, Operations and 
Technology, Finance and Investment, and 
Health Insurance
Law 
and 
Governance, 
Business 
Management and Strategy, Insurance 
& Risk Management, Operations and 
Technology, Finance and Investment, and 
Health Insurance
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
14
ANNEXURE II
Information as required under Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, disclosures relating to appointment of the 
Secretarial Auditors as on date of the AGM Notice is given hereunder:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Details
1
Proposed fees payable to the 
Secretarial Auditor
A remuneration of ₹ 5,00,000 (Rupees Five Lakh only), plus the Goods and 
Service Tax as applicable and out-of-pocket, travelling and boarding expenses is 
proposed to be paid to M/s Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries for conducting 
secretarial audit of the Company for FY 2025-26. Subject to approval of Members 
of the Company to item number 3 of the AGM notice, the fees for secretarial audit 
of subsequent years of their term as secretarial auditor will be decided by the 
Board of Directors.
2
Terms of appointment
Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries, is proposed to be appointed for a term of 5 
consecutive years commencing from April 1, 2025 till March 31, 2030.
The Company may also avail various permissible professional services (other 
than the prohibited services under SEBI Listing Regulations and circulars 
issued thereunder, from the Secretarial Auditors. The Board of Directors on 
recommendation of the Audit Committee) shall approve revision, if any, in the 
remuneration of the Secretarial Auditors, for the balance part of their tenure 
based on review of the scope of work and any additional efforts taken by them on 
account of changes in regulations, restructuring or other considerations, etc.
Further, the Board on recommendation of the Audit Committee may alter or vary 
the other terms and conditions of appointment of Secretarial Auditors, including 
remuneration, in such a manner and to such an extent as may be mutually agreed 
with the Secretarial Auditor, in accordance with the applicable laws.
3
In case of a new auditor, any 
material change in the fee 
payable to such auditor from 
that paid to the outgoing 
auditor along with the 
rationale for such change
Not Applicable
4
Basis of recommendation 
for appointment including 
the details in relation to and 
credentials of the Secretarial 
Auditor proposed to be 
appointed
The Board of Directors on recommendation of the Audit Committee, and after 
considering various parameters including capability, assurance, audit experience, 
the audits conducted by them in the past, nature of work involved, services offered, 
recommended to pay the audit fee as mentioned above.
Kanj & Co. LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership Firm incorporated in India and 
was formed in the year 2000 with 5 partners and has now grown to more than 
12 partners, 60+ employees, managers and interns and 10+ administrative staff. 
KANJ has network of practicing company secretaries across India. The firm is 
primarily engaged in Corporate and Listing Compliance, FEMA laws, Securities 
Law, and other advisory services to its client.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
15
Information at Glance for the 9th Annual General Meeting
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Details
1
Day, Date and Time of AGM
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 at 3:00 p.m. (IST)
2
Mode
Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”)
3
Speaker Registration before 
AGM
Members who would like to express their views/ask questions during the AGM may 
register themselves as a speaker by sending their request from their registered 
e-mail id mentioning their name, DPID and Client ID/ folio number and mobile 
number at cs@godigit.com between 9:00 a.m. (IST) on Friday, August 1, 2025 to 
5:00 p.m. (IST) on Tuesday, August 5, 2025.
4
Web-link for Annual Report 
and Notice of the 9th AGM
www.godigit.com/investor-relations
5
Cut-off date for ascertaining 
members for E-voting
Wednesday, July 30, 2025
6
Remote E-voting start time 
and date
9:00 a.m. (IST) on Saturday, August 2, 2025
7
Remote E-voting end time 
and date
5:00 p.m. (IST) on Tuesday, August 5, 2025
8
Name, address and contact 
details of E-Voting service 
provider
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”)
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Trade World, Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013
Tel No.: 022 - 4886 7000
E-mail: evoting@nsdl.com
9
Remote E-Voting website of 
NSDL
Shares held in Demat mode with NSDL: www.evoting.nsdl.com
Shares held in Demat mode with CDSL: www.cdslindia.com
Logging in through Depositary Participants: Members can also login using the 
login credentials of their demat account through their DP registered with NSDL /
CDSL for e-voting facility.
10
E-voting Event Number
134526
11
E-mail registration and 
Contact
Updation Process
Contact your Depository Participant(s)
12
Name, address and contact 
details of RTA
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
C 101, Embassy 247, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083.
R & T Services - Shares and Interest on Bonds: (0) 810 811 6767
Toll-free number: 1800 1020 878
Email: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
13
Name, address and contact 
details of Company
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
1st to 6th Floor, Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No. 
1579, Shivajinagar, Pune – 411005
Tel No.: - 020 67495400
Toll-free number: 1800-258-5956
E-mail: cs@godigit.com
Website: www.godigit.com
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
16
To,
[Name of Member]
[Address]
Subject: Access to the Notice of 9th AGM and Annual Report for FY 2024-25 of Go Digit General Insurance 
Limited
Dear Sir/Madam,
This is to inform you that the 9th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of Go Digit General Insurance Limited (“the 
Company”) is scheduled to be conducted on Wednesday, August 6, 2025 at 3:00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”). The Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report of the Company for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, is being sent by electronic mode to those Members whose e-mail addresses are 
registered with the Company or MUFG Intime India Private Limited, Registrar & Transfer Agent of the Company (RTA) or 
Depository Participants (DPs).
We would further like to inform you that on scrutiny of the Member’s database as of Friday, July 4, 2025, we find that you 
are a Member of the Company, however, your email address is not registered against your demat account/Folio number.
In accordance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the Notice of the 9th AGM and the Annual Report for FY 2024-
25 have been made accessible on our website for your reference and downloading.
Please find below the links and quick response (“QR”) codes for accessing the documents:
Sr. 
No.
Document
Link & QR Code
1
Notice of the 9th Annual General 
Meeting
https://www.godigit.com/content/dam/godigit/general/investor-relations/
stock-exchange-disclosures/notice-of-the-9th-annual-general-meeting-
gdgil.pdf
2
Annual Report for FY 2024-25
https://www.godigit.com/content/dam/godigit/general/investor-relations/
annual-reports/annual-report-for-fy2024-25-gdgil.pdf
You can also find the above mentioned documents on the website of the E-voting service provider and AGM facilitator viz. 
NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com and the websites of the stock exchanges where equity shares of the Company are 
listed: i.e. www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com.
This is also a reminder to update your KYC details pursuant to SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD- 1/P/
CIR/2024/37 dated May 07, 2024. The referred circular issued by SEBI mandates all the listed companies to record PAN, 
Address with PIN code, Mobile Number, Bank Account details, Specimen Signature and choice of Nomination of Members 
holding securities in physical mode. While updating email id is optional, the security holders are requested to register their 
email id to also avail of online services.
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
1
The formats for choice of Nomination and updating of KYC details viz, Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13, SH-14, and 
SEBI circulars are available on our RTA’s website i.e.: https://www.in.mpms.mufg.com > Resources > Downloads > KYC > 
Formats for KYC.
Should you have any queries, please feel free to contact us at cs@godigit.com. Moreover, you are also requested to 
update your email address at the earliest either through your depository participant for electronic holding or send a 
communication to us/ our RTA i.e., MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly Link Intime India Private Limited) to 
facilitate the updation to receive electronically all the important information & documents hereafter from us.
Thank you,
Yours faithfully,
For Go Digit General Insurance Limited
Tejas Saraf
Company Secretary
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
2
INSURANCE
Read Inside
01 	
Welcome to Digit Universe
02 	
Experienced Board Leadership
04 	
Message from the Chairman
06 	
Message from the MD & CEO
08 	
What Defines Us
12 	
Top Awards and Accolades
14	
Directors’ Report	
23 	
Secretarial Audit Report	
26 	
Annual Report on  
 	
Corporate Social Responsibility Activities	
31 	
Management’s Discussion and Analysis	
34 	
Corporate Governance Report
70	
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report	
118 	
Management Report	
	
123 	
Independent Auditors’ Report
132 	
Financial Statements
CORPORATE 
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY 
REPORTS
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
1
2
3
Download this report or read online at
https://www.godigit.com/investor-relations
In 
2017, a simple yet powerful idea took shape in 
India’s insurance landscape with a mission to simplify 
insurance. That simple thought took form and became Go 
Digit General Insurance Limited, a Company born from a 
deep-seated belief that insurance, an essential safety net, 
should be accessible, transparent, and easy to understand 
for everyone. 
India 
still 
grappled 
with 
low 
non-life 
insurance 
penetration. This represented a vast population that was 
still underserved, often intimidated by complex jargon, 
cumbersome processes, and a pervasive lack of trust in 
the system.
Our founders envisioned a different path; one where 
technology could act as a bridge, taking vital insurance 
products beyond the major metropolitan hubs and into 
the heart of India—its tier-2 and tier-3 cities, and even its 
remote villages. Our core mission, right from day one, has 
been to Make Insurance Simple!
CREATING NEW INSURANCE EXPERIENCE 
We believed that by simplifying every facet of insurance, 
we could rebuild and reinforce the trust between the 
insurer and the customer. This conviction became the 
cornerstone of our operations and changed how non-life 
insurance products are understood and experienced.
To create a niche, we set out early to change three key 
things. We redesigned our products to be intuitive and 
customizable, making insurance easier to understand 
and more relevant to individual needs. We simplified 
documentation by removing jargon and adding clear 
summaries that speak the customer’s language. And we 
built a fully paperless, tech-driven process that makes 
everything—from buying a policy to settling a claim—fast 
and seamless.
Our focus on leveraging technology has transformed 
product 
design, 
our 
partner 
ecosystem 
(agents, 
intermediaries, POSPs and MISPs), and customer 
experience, allowing us to have good settlement 
turnaround times (TATs) for various claims processes.
This commitment to simplicity has helped us serve 
67 million customers since inception and fuelled our 
remarkable growth. In just 8 years, Digit has emerged as 
India’s leading digital full-stack insurer, clocking Rs 10,282 
crore in Gross Written Premium (GWP) in FY24-25
WELCOME 
TO DIGIT 
UNIVERSE
EXPERIENCED 
BOARD LEADERSHIP
Kamesh Goyal is the Non-Executive Chairman of our Company and has been a Director 
of our Company since its incorporation. He holds a bachelor’s degree in science from the 
University of Delhi. He holds a bachelor’s degree in law and master’s degree in business 
administration from the University of Delhi. He has several years of experience in the 
insurance industry and has served as the chief executive officer of Bajaj Allianz General 
Insurance and Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited. He is also an associate of the 
Insurance Institute of India. Kamesh Goyal is currently the Non-Executive Chairman in Go 
Digit Life Insurance Limited, Go Digit Infoworks Services Private Limited and Valueattics 
Reinsurance Limited and Designated Partner in Oben Ventures LLP and Oben Enterprises 
LLP.
Kamesh Goyal 
Non-Executive Chairman
Vandana Gupta is an Independent Director of our Company. She has a bachelor’s degree in 
medical sciences and surgery from Kanpur University and doctor of medicine degree from 
Bundelkhand University. She has several years of experience in the medical field and has 
worked as a senior pathologist in a private hospital since 2003. Vandana Gupta is also an 
Independent Director on Board of Go Digit Life Insurance Limited.
Vandana Gupta 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan is a Non-Executive Director of our Company. He is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and holds a bachelor’s degree in commerce 
from the University of Madras. He is also a Qualified Chartered Analyst and Member of the 
CFA Institute in the United States. He is currently serving as Director on Board of Quess Corp 
Limited, Thomas Cook (India) Limited, Go Digit Life Insurance Limited, IIFL Finance Limited, 
Primary Real Estate Investments, FIH Private Investments Limited, FIH Mauritius Investments 
Limited, 10955230 Canada INC and Fairfirst Insurance Limited. He is appointed as Nominee 
Director in Bangalore International Airport Limited and serves the role of Chairman in 
Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited. He is the Chief Executive Officer 
and Director of Fairfax India Holdings Corporation, Managing Director, India at Hamblin 
Watsa Investment Counsel (Hamblin Watsa), a wholly owned subsidiary of Fairfax Financial 
Holdings Limited (Fairfax). Prior to his roles with Fairfax and Hamblin Watsa, he was the 
Chief Investment Officer of ICICI Lombard. He held the position of head of investments at ICICI 
Lombard from 2001 to 2018 and was a member of the investment committee.
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan 
Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director
Christof Mascher is an Independent Director of our Company. He holds a master’s degree in 
philosophy from the University of Vienna and doctorate degree in law from the University of 
Innsbruck. He was appointed as the chief operating officer of Allianz SE and the Chairman 
of supervisory board of Allianz Technology. Christof Mascher currently holds the position of 
Independent Director at Go Digit Life Insurance Limited.
Christof Mascher 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
2
Jasleen Kohli is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Digit Insurance. With 
over 18 years of experience in the insurance industry, she has successfully led teams across 
Sales, Direct Marketing, Operations, Customer Retention, and Distribution, covering General, 
Life, Property, and Casualty Insurance. Before joining Digit as a founding member, Jasleen 
spent more than 15 years with Allianz India, building a strong foundation in insurance and 
leadership. She holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration and is deeply committed 
to driving innovation and simplicity in insurance, making it more accessible and customer-
friendly.
Jasleen Kohli 
Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer
Mahender Kumar Garg 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mahender Kumar Garg is an Independent Director of our Company. He is a fellow member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accounts of India and holds a bachelor’s degree in commerce from 
the Punjab University. He is also a Fellow member of Insurance Institute of India. He has several 
years of experience in the Insurance Industry and was the Chairman and Managing Director 
of United India Insurance Company Limited from 2004 to 2007. Mahender Kumar Garg is a 
Whole Time Director in Rolesoft Mercantile Company Private Limited and an Independent 
Director in Valueattics Reinsurance Limited.
Mukul Gupta is an Independent Director of our Company. He is a Chartered Accountant and 
has over 3.5 decades of work experience in the financial services industry. He is a highly 
experienced professional with an extensive background having worked in different verticals of 
the industry such as Insurance, Asset Management and Banks. He has a track record of leading 
and contributing to successful ventures, start-ups, and handling core management initiatives 
across various renowned organizations, especially in insurance sector and asset management, 
including working as CEO, CFO and in Board of Director roles. His earlier experiences include 
being the CEO at Birla Sun Life Asset Management Company Limited. He also played a 
crucial role in the building up of Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd, where he served 
as the CFO & Head of Bancassurance. He has also worked with Management Consulting 
organizations such as Accenture and KPMG, working with clients across Government and 
privately owned (foreign & local) financial services organizations. Mukul Gupta currently holds 
the position of Independent Director at Go Digit Life Insurance Limited and is a Designated 
Partner of Saritarun Greens LLP.
Mukul Kant Gupta 
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
KEY LEADERS: EXPERTS WITH INSURANCE & TECH BENT
Jasleen Kohli
MD and CEO
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Adarsh Kishor Agarwal
Chief Actuary and Product Officer-Corporate Business
Easwara Narayanan Muthuswamy
Chief Operating Officer
Parimal Heda
Chief Investment Officer
Vivek Chaturvedi
Chief Marketing Officer and Head of Direct Sales, Health & Travel business
Rajeev Singh
Chief Technical and Risk Officer
Rasika Kuber
Chief Compliance Officer
Amrit Jaidka Arora
Chief Human Resource Officer
Nikhil Kamdar
Appointed Actuary
Tejas Saraf
Company Secretary
Gangadharayya Jadagerimath
Head of Technology
Ganesan Ramesh
Internal Auditor
Atul Mehta
Country Head- Geographies (Retail) & Key Partnerships
Note: This information is as of March 31, 2025.
Statutory Reports
14
123
01
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
3
MESSAGE FROM THE 
CHAIRMAN
Kamesh Goyal
Dear Shareholders,
It gives me great pleasure to share 
with you the Annual Report of Go 
Digit General Insurance Limited for 
FY 2024–25. This year, we have 
continued our journey of growth and 
resilience, staying true to our values 
of 
simplicity, 
transparency, 
and 
customer focus.
The global economic environment 
remained challenging, with trade 
tensions 
and 
regional 
conflicts 
slowing growth. Yet, India stood 
out, becoming the world’s fourth-
largest economy in 2025—driven by 
domestic demand and policy reforms.
In the Indian insurance sector, while 
gross direct premiums of non-life 
insurers crossed ₹3 trillion, growth 
slowed to 6.2% due to the 1/n rule, 
weaker vehicle sales, and continued 
softness in commercial lines.
Despite 
these 
headwinds, 
our 
Company continued to outperform 
the industry. We crossed ₹10,282 
crore in Gross Written Premiums, 
At Digit, we’ve always 
believed in making insurance 
simple and relevant. Our 
focus on understanding 
customer needs has led to 
product innovations and 
strong service standards.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
4
with Profit After Tax rising by 
133.5% to ₹425 crore. Our overall 
market share stood at 3.3%, and 
in motor insurance, we maintained 
our strong position with a 5.9% 
share—ranking us fourth in the 
private 
segment. 
Our 
Assets 
Under Management grew 25% to 
₹19,703 crore.
We maintained a stable combined 
ratio of 109.3% and a healthy 
solvency ratio of 2.24x, keeping us 
well-capitalised for future growth. 
Our loss ratio stood at 72.8%.
Our 
portfolio 
now 
spans 
85 
products 
across 
segments, 
supported by a strong partner 
network of over 71,000 and digital 
systems that enable service across 
almost every pin code in India. We 
continue to maintain high customer 
satisfaction and regularly publish 
our Transparency Report to share 
key customer metrics openly. We 
would be very happy to serve you 
for any of your insurance needs! 
At Digit, we’ve always believed 
in 
making 
insurance 
simple 
and 
relevant. 
Our 
focus 
on 
understanding 
customer 
needs 
has led to product innovations 
and strong service standards. We 
believe insurers who build on trust, 
transparency, and adaptability will 
thrive in the future.
As we look ahead, we remain 
focused 
on 
using 
technology 
to simplify insurance and serve 
evolving customer needs. With a 
scalable digital backbone and a 
clear purpose, we’re confident of 
sustaining our momentum.
I thank all our stakeholders—
customers, employees, partners, 
regulators, and shareholders—for 
your continued trust and support. 
As the industry marks 25 years 
since liberalisation, it’s time to 
steer towards more inclusive and 
sustainable growth. The future 
of insurance in India is bright, 
and together, we look forward to 
shaping it.
Kamesh Goyal
Chairman 
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
We maintained a 
stable combined 
ratio of 109.3% 
and a healthy 
solvency ratio of 
2.24x, keeping us 
well-capitalised for 
future growth. 
Statutory Reports
14
123
01
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
5
Jasleen Kohli
MESSAGE FROM THE 
MD & CEO
Dear Shareholders,
The end of a financial year is more 
than a closing of books—it’s a 
moment to reflect, reset, and renew 
our purpose. At Digit, our journey 
from day one has been driven by a 
single mission: to make insurance 
simple. This clarity of purpose 
continues to guide every decision 
we 
make—always 
putting 
the 
customer first.
STAYING TRUE TO OUR VALUES
Fiscal Year 2024–25 was another 
strong year for your Company. 
But beyond the numbers, it was a 
year defined by how we chose to 
grow—with bold questions, honest 
answers, 
and 
an 
unwavering 
commitment to challenge the status 
quo. Transparency, innovation, and 
customer-centricity 
are 
not 
just 
values on paper—they are deeply 
embedded in our culture and reflected 
in how we do business every day.
We will continue to invest 
in technology, deepen 
customer trust, and push 
boundaries in product 
design and service  
delivery—all while staying 
true to our founding ethos.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
6
OUR FINANCIAL REPORT CARD
We closed FY2024–25 with solid 
growth, improved efficiencies, and a 
strong balance sheet. Here’s how we 
performed across key metrics:
•	 Delivering 
Profitability: 
Our 
Profit After Tax (PBT) more than 
doubled—growing 
133.5% 
to 
₹425 crore from ₹182 crore in 
the previous year. This robust 
improvement drove our Return on 
Average Equity (ROAE) to 13.0%, 
up from 7.5% last year, translating 
directly into enhanced shareholder 
value.
•	 Sustained Premium Growth: Our 
Gross Written Premium (GWP) 
grew by 14.0% to ₹10,282 crore, 
outpacing 
industry 
averages. 
Adjusting for the 1/n accounting 
basis i.e. without 1/n, our underlying 
growth was 15.6%. Our market 
share rose to 3.3% overall and 5.9% 
in motor insurance, underscoring 
our competitive position.
•	 Growing Investment Base: Our 
Assets Under Management (AUM) 
increased by 25% to ₹19,703 
crore, strengthening our ability to 
generate long-term returns.
•	 Operational 
Discipline: 
We 
improved our Expense Ratio (on 
NWP basis) to 36.5%, down 
from 
38.4% 
last 
year, 
while 
maintaining a Combined Ratio of 
109.3% (108.6% excluding the 
1/n impact). Our Solvency Ratio 
improved to 2.24x, well above the 
regulatory requirement of 1.50x—
demonstrating both strength and 
resilience.
WHAT DRIVES US
Our success is rooted in a sharp 
focus on three pillars—technology, 
partnerships, and people.
•	 A 
digital-first, 
AI-powered 
approach 
helps 
us 
simplify 
operations and deliver superior 
customer experience.
•	 Our 
tech-enabled 
ecosystem 
utilised by over 70,000 partners 
enhances scale, speed, and service 
quality.
•	 Our OPEN 
culture—Ownership, 
People 
Relations, 
Evolve 
and 
Engage, No Hierarchy—empowers 
our 
teams 
to 
think 
boldly, 
collaborate openly, and innovate 
continuously.
INNOVATION WITH PURPOSE
We believe insurance must evolve 
with the needs of society. This year, 
we deepened our commitment to 
building solutions that matter:
•	 Offered parametric insurance to 
workers affected by heatwave 
under the aegis of Mahila Housing 
Trust.
•	 Introduced parametric insurance 
to support renewable energy and 
waste-to-energy initiatives.
•	 Launched one of India’s first AQI-
based parametric insurance covers 
for daily wage earners impacted by 
air pollution bans in Delhi.
•	 Promoted 
sustainable 
practices 
through our Green Ninja Campaign, 
encouraging eco-friendly vehicle 
repairs and responsible resource 
use.
These 
initiatives 
reflect 
how 
sustainability and social responsibility 
are becoming integral to our value 
chain, not an afterthought.
LOOKING AHEAD
India’s general insurance industry 
stands on the cusp of significant 
growth, 
backed 
by 
progressive 
regulation and economic tailwinds. 
While global uncertainties remain, we 
are confident in our ability to adapt, 
innovate, and grow responsibly.
We 
will 
continue 
to 
invest 
in 
technology, deepen customer trust, 
and push boundaries in product 
design and service delivery—all 
while staying true to our founding 
ethos.
In closing, I would like to thank 
our 
Board 
Members, 
regulators, 
customers, employees, partners, and 
each one of you—our shareholders. 
Your trust inspires us to keep building 
a company that’s not only financially 
sound but also driven by purpose and 
heart.
As we move forward, our commitment 
remains strong: to make insurance 
simpler, more transparent, and more 
meaningful—for 
every 
customer, 
every time.
Warm regards,
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director &  
Chief Executive Officer
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
Statutory Reports
14
123
01
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
7
WHAT DEFINES US
STRONG FOOTING AND WIDE 
PRESENCE 
We began operations in 2017 as 
the 25th general insurance company 
of India. The past eight years have 
been an incredible journey, filled 
with growth and learnings. In a short 
span of time, we have grown from 
a new entrant to one of the major 
private players in this space. From FY 
2018-19 (first full year of operations), 
when our portfolio included just 16 
products—primarily 
motor, 
travel, 
and a few other categories—Digit 
has steadily expanded its offerings to 
now include 85 products as part of its 
portfolio, reflecting our commitment 
to meeting diverse and evolving 
customer needs.
Whether it is commercial cyber 
insurance, 
business 
policy 
for 
commercial establishments, liability 
or marine insurance, Digit today is 
known to cover some of the most 
diverse risks in the country. Our risk-
based granular underwriting enables 
peril-specific profiling, empowering 
the Company to underwrite some of 
the most complex infra projects in the 
country. 
Since inception, we have served 67 
million customers and settled 2.94 
million claims. Through 86 offices 
pan-India, we were able to serve 
98.04% of India’s postal codes. 
Digit’s partner ecosystem stands 
strong with 71,870 partners.
HOW FAR WE HAVE GROWN
In just eight years, Digit has grown from a bold startup to India’s leading digital full-stack insurer. Our journey has 
been marked by relentless innovation, customer-centricity, and a deep understanding of the Indian market.
1
GROSS WRITTEN 
PREMIUM (GWP): 
₹10,282 CRORE IN 
FY24-25
4
SOLVENCY RATIO: 
2.24X (WELL ABOVE  
REGULATORY 
NORMS)
2
PROFIT AFTER TAX 
(PAT): ₹425 CRORE 
(133.5% YOY GROWTH)
5
OVER 67 MILLION 
CUSTOMERS 
SERVED
3
ASSETS UNDER 
MANAGEMENT (AUM): 
₹19,703 CRORE 
(25% GROWTH)
6
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: 
85 OFFERINGS ACROSS 
MOTOR, HEALTH, 
PROPERTY, TRAVEL, 
PET, CYBER, LIABILITY, 
MARINE, ENGINEERING 
INSURANCE, AND MORE!
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
8
BUILDING PRODUCTS WE’D 
BUY FOR OUR FAMILIES
When we design our products, we 
essentially put it through a stress 
test that immediately provides clarity 
about its viability. Would we buy the 
product being offered for our own 
family? And this conviction drives our 
product design, moving away from 
complex jargon and towards clarity, 
relevance, and providing genuine 
value. We focus on what truly 
matters to our customers, ensuring 
our products deliver meaningful and 
real benefits.
Our 
philosophy 
centres 
around 
crafting insurance solutions that offer 
clear, meaningful benefits rather 
than hidden clauses or unnecessary 
complexities. This means prioritizing 
essential coverages that provide 
value and peace of mind. Our 
commitment to transparent pricing 
and customizable coverage options 
empowers 
customers 
to 
select 
precisely what they need, eliminating 
the burden of paying for irrelevant 
features and ensuring our products 
are not just bought, but truly useful.
EMBEDDING 
OUR 
CORE 
VALUES
Digit was founded on a bold idea: 
insurance should be simple and does 
not have to be complicated. With this 
in mind, we adopted two core values 
into our DNA: Challenging the 
Status Quo and Being Transparent.
We’ve challenged the status quo by 
cutting out the jargon, simplifying 
documentation, 
and 
designing 
products 
that 
people 
actually 
understand and value. This has 
enabled us to design bold and 
innovative products like Parametric 
Insurance and Pay As You Drive 
(PAYD). Parametric Insurance is a 
product wherein claim events can 
get auto-triggered, for example, 
providing rapid relief to vulnerable 
populations on triggers based on 
external metrics like air quality index 
(AQI). PAYD allows customers to pay 
premiums based on actual vehicle 
usage, offering fairer pricing and 
greater control.
Transparency is at the heart of 
everything we do. Our policies today 
come with clear summaries and 
terms, and direct communication. 
We don’t hide behind fine print—we 
explain it. This approach has not only 
built trust with customers but also 
with our partners, who rely on us for 
consistent, honest collaboration.
HOW 
WE 
MAKE 
CLAIMS 
SUPER SMOOTH
At Digit, we believe that insurance 
should be a source of peace—
not paperwork. That’s why we’ve 
transformed the claims experience 
into one of the most seamless 
journeys. Traditionally, claims have 
been a pain point for customers, 
often involving long waits, confusing 
documentation, and multiple follow-
ups. We’ve flipped that narrative.
Our claims process is designed 
to be intuitive, fast, and mobile-
first. Customers can initiate claims 
directly through our app or even 
via WhatsApp, upload photos of 
the damage, and receive guided 
assessments—all without needing 
to visit a branch or fill out lengthy 
forms. This is not just convenience; 
it’s empowerment.
HOW WE ARE SIMPLIFYING 
INSURANCE
Our 
unwavering 
commitment 
to 
simplicity 
extends 
to 
every 
interaction, 
making 
insurance 
effortlessly accessible for both our 
customers and partners. 
These numbers tell a story of scale, 
impact, and trust. But beyond the 
metrics, our growth is reflected in 
the lives we’ve touched—from urban 
professionals to rural families, from 
small businesses to large enterprises.
We’ve 
expanded 
our 
reach 
to 
tier-2 and tier-3 cities, bringing 
insurance to communities that were 
previously underserved. Our digital 
infrastructure allows us to operate 
efficiently 
across 
geographies, 
ensuring that no one is left behind.
We have replaced complexity with 
clarity, ensuring our policy documents 
are so simplified that even 15-year-
old kids understand. Our mobile-
first strategy empowers customers 
to manage their policies and claims 
directly through self-service options 
like in-app claims initiation. With its 
photo upload and guided assessment 
features, it helps with lower TAT than 
traditional methods. 
We also offer 24x7 live chat bot 
assistance and enable customers to 
check claim status via WhatsApp, 
ensuring support is always at their 
fingertips. Our distribution partners, 
too, benefit from comprehensive 
self-service tools for policy servicing, 
reconciliation, and renewals. In FY25, 
we served 8.49 lakh customers (an 
average of 2,327 customers per day) 
and handled 2.22 lakh live chats on 
WhatsApp. 
Statutory Reports
14
123
01
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
9
We’ve also introduced AI-powered 
health claims bots that fetch data 
directly 
from 
partner 
systems, 
reducing manual errors and speeding 
up settlements. Our Fast Track KYC 
feature allows existing customers 
to reuse their verified information, 
cutting down on redundant steps and 
accelerating policy issuance.
These innovations have led to a 
significant reduction in turnaround 
times (TATs), making Digit’s customer 
service better when it comes to 
settling claims. Whether it’s a motor 
accident or a health emergency, our 
customers know they can rely on us 
to act swiftly and transparently.
REIMAGINING 
PARTNER 
ECOSYSTEM 
From the very beginning, one guiding 
idea stood out and shaped our path. 
We will be present everywhere our 
customers are present, and we will 
ensure no matter where they buy a 
Digit policy from, they will get the 
same Digit experience everywhere. 
With this mission in mind, we set 
out to reimagine the entire partner 
ecosystem. This meant digitising 
the entire partner network with zero 
paperwork and ensuring they are 
enabled through technology to take 
key decisions.
We recognize that in a dynamic 
market, empowering our distribution 
network with unparalleled support 
and 
cutting-edge 
tools 
is 
key 
to shared success and building 
trust. At Digit, we strengthen our 
partners network through a robust 
technology ecosystem designed for 
efficiency and ease. We understand 
that our partners, from established 
agencies 
to 
agile 
non-banking 
financial companies, banks, web 
aggregators, brokers, agents, POSPs, 
etc possess diverse operational 
models and technical proficiencies. 
TECH: THE BACKBONE OF 
DIGIT
When we started Digit, we made 
a bold choice of building our entire 
technology stack in-house. This has 
enabled us to innovate fearlessly, 
move with agility, and build solutions 
that are deeply aligned with our 
vision.
Today our cloud-native, AI-first 
infrastructure 
powers 
every 
To bridge these gaps, we extend 
our expertise, and a comprehensive 
suite of digital solutions tailored to 
their specific needs. This includes 
seamless access through multi-
channel interaction points like our 
AI-powered bot for instant quotes, 
sophisticated APIs that enable 
deep 
system 
integration, 
and 
intuitive partner portals and mobile 
applications.  
Our modular APIs, for instance, 
facilitate customized integration 
with partner platforms, automating 
critical processes from quotes and 
policy issuance to endorsements, 
payments, and claims registration, 
vastly streamlining their workflows. 
We also equip them with powerful 
tools to build insight, providing 
real-time data on risk profiles and 
underwriting likelihood, allowing 
them to precisely target and service 
their customer base.  
Furthermore, our extensive self-
service 
capabilities 
support 
partners to manage their book of 
business efficiently throughout the 
entire policy lifecycle, from pre-
inspections to document uploads, 
ensuring they can provide superior 
service to their own customers with 
minimal friction. This has helped 
us seamlessly expand our partner 
network and we today have a 
network of 71,870 partners.
aspect of our business, from 
underwriting and fraud detection 
to customer service and partner 
enablement.
AI-Driven 
Efficiency: 
We 
employ a hybrid model of AI-
enabled analytics and human 
assessment across the value 
chain; from enrolment and claims 
processing 
to 
underwriting 
and 
fraud 
detection. 
Using 
AI-driven 
microsystems, 
we 
automate processes, benefiting 
our 
partners 
and 
customers 
and 
driving 
efficiency. 
For 
instance, it helps us automate 
tasks like document processing, 
motor 
damage 
surveys, 
and 
health claim settlements. This 
not only speeds up operations 
but also ensures accuracy and 
consistency. We’ve also deployed 
graph data models for fraud 
detection, identifying complex 
patterns 
and 
safeguarding 
genuine policyholders.
Predictive Underwriting Models: 
We blend our deep domain 
expertise with our expansive 
data bank to build sophisticated 
underwriting models. This allows 
us to accurately assess risk and 
predict losses, particularly in 
motor insurance, leading to better 
cost management and products 
tailored to a broader customer 
base. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
10
POWERED BY STRONG VISION 
FOR THE FUTURE
Driven by a bold and forward-
looking vision, our aim is to keep 
challenging the status quo. We’ve 
built Digit with purpose, resilience, 
and clarity. Every step we’ve taken 
has been guided by a deep belief in 
what’s possible—not just today, but 
in the years to come. 
We extend our deepest gratitude to 
all our stakeholders—especially our 
OUR SIMPLIFIERS: THE POWERHOUSE OF DIGIT 
At the heart of Digit’s transformation lies a powerful force—our people. Known internally as Simplifiers, they are not just 
employees; they are the architects of change, the catalysts of innovation, and the everyday champions of our mission to 
make insurance simple.
What enables them to think differently, act boldly, and deliver consistently is our OPEN culture—a living philosophy that 
goes far beyond values on paper. It’s a mindset that shapes how we work, how we collaborate, and how we serve.
How OPEN Culture Shapes Our People
O
P 
E 
N
O
P 
E 
N
Ownership: At Digit, ownership isn’t assigned—it’s embraced. Every Simplifier, regardless of role or title, is empowered 
to take full responsibility for their work and its impact. This deep sense of accountability fuels innovation, encourages 
initiative, and ensures that challenges are met with conviction, not hesitation. It’s why our teams move fast, solve 
problems proactively, and deliver with purpose
People Relations:  We believe that great work happens when people feel respected, heard, and supported. Our 
culture fosters transparent communication and empathy across all levels, creating a collaborative environment where 
diverse perspectives thrive. This human connection translates directly into the way we treat our customers—with care, 
clarity, and consistency.
Evolve and Engage: In a fast-moving industry, agility is everything. Our culture encourages continuous learning and 
active engagement with new ideas, technologies, and challenges. Simplifiers are not just reacting to change—they’re 
driving it. This mindset allows us to stay ahead of the curve, adapt quickly, and innovate meaningfully.
No Hierarchy: We’ve flattened traditional structures to create space for ideas to flow freely. In our “no hierarchy” 
environment, everyone has a voice, and every insight matters. This openness fuels responsiveness, accelerates 
decision-making, and ensures that innovation isn’t limited by position—it’s powered by passion.
This culture isn’t just internal—it’s 
visible in everything we offer. Because 
our people are empowered, it makes 
our processes faster. Our teams 
collaborate deeply, which ensures 
products we offer naturally become 
more relevant and truly useful. 
From faster claims to intuitive digital 
journeys, every customer touchpoint 
reflects the agility and care that 
our culture enables. Whether it’s a 
WhatsApp update, a simplified policy 
document, or a proactive service 
call—what customers experience 
every day is the result of how our 
people think, behave, and build.
regulators—whose guidance and 
trust are instrumental in driving 
our mission forward, alongside 
the invaluable support of our 
customers, employees, partners, 
and shareholders. This gives 
us the confidence of pioneering 
new possibilities for the non-
life industry. We will remain 
committed to our vision and 
continue to simplify insurance. 
We want to shape a future 
where protection is seamless, 
accessible, and built to serve a 
changing world.
Statutory Reports
14
123
01
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
11
TOP AWARDS 
AND ACCOLADES
General Insurance  
Company of the Year 
AIR 28th Asia Insurance Industry 
Awards 2024, Singapore
Best Digital Insurer – India
Insurance Asia News Country 
Excellence Awards 2024 
AI Initiative of the Year  
Insurance Asia 
Awards 2024 
Best Insurance Claims 
Experience
Global Brand  
Awards 2024 
Innovative Application of  
AI in Insurance
Quantic India Technology 
Excellence Awards 2024
Outstanding CEO – India  
(Jasleen Kohli)
Insurance Asia News Country 
Excellence Awards 2024 
Most Innovative Insurtech  
Award 
Fintech Festival of  
India Awards
Best Health Insurance Coverage
Global Brand  
Awards 2024 
Emerging Insurer Overall 
Achievement Award  
(General Insurance)
Assocham 16th Global  
Insurance Awards
Health Insurance Initiative  
of the Year 
Insurance Asia Awards 2024 
Best General Insurance 
Company
Global Brand Awards 2024 
Emerging Insurance Business Leader 
(Nalini Venkat, President  
Digit Insurance)
Global Brand Awards 2024  
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
12
Visionary Leader - Insurance (Jasleen 
Kohli, MD & CEO, Digit Insurance)
Global Brand 
Awards 2024 
Ranked 229 out of 500 (India’s 
Most Valuable Companies)
Business Today BT500 2024 
Rankings
Top Employer in India 
2025 Award
Top Employer Institute, 
Netherlands
Ranked 264 (by Net Revenue) 
and Ranked 263  
by market-cap
Financial Express  
FE1000 List 2024
Best Fintech  
(Insurance) Award
Financial Express FE India’s Best 
Banks Awards 
Top Rated Internet/Product 
Companies (mid-sized category) 
Ambition Box Employee Choice 
Awards 2025
Top BFSI Tech Leaders Award 
(Jasleen Kohli)
ETNow Top BFSI Tech Leaders 
Award 2025
Excellence in  
Insuretech Award
Fintech India Innovation 
Awards 2025
BW People Excellence Award 
(Best Place of Work)
9th BW People HR Excellence 
Awards 2024
EY Entrepreneur of the Year - Start-
up Category (Kamesh Goyal)
Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the 
Year 2024 
Ranked 312 out of 500 (India’s 
Largest Companies)
Fortune500 India Rankings
Top Employer in India 
2024 Award
Top Employer Institute, 
Netherlands
Statutory Reports
14
123
01
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
13
To,
The Members of
Go Digit General Insurance Limited (“the Company”/”Go Digit”)
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting their Ninth Annual Report and audited financial statements for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025.
1.	
The highlights of the Financial Results are as under:
₹ in Crore
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Gross written premium
10,282
9,016
Net earned premium
8,046
7,096
Profit / (Loss) after tax
425
182
Net worth
4,033
2,515
Assets under management (including cash)
19,703
15,764
Directors’ Report
2.	
Change in Nature of Business, if any
There has been no change in the business carried on 
by the Company during the year.
3.	
State of Affairs and Business Review
The industry gross direct premium grew from 
₹ 2,89,645 Crore in financial year 2024 to ₹ 3,07,659 
Crore in financial year 2025, a growth of 6%. Your 
Company’s gross written premium (“GWP”) grew 
from ₹ 9,016 Crore in financial year 2024 to ₹ 10,282 
Crore in financial year 2025. The market share of 
the Company on gross written premium stood at 
3.3% as compared to 3.1% for the previous financial 
year. Out of Company’s total GWP, Fire contributed 
8.0%, Motor 57.0%, Engineering 1.5%, Health and 
Travel 18.1% and other lines of business 15.4%. 
The net retention ratio and the net earning ratio (net 
earned premium to net written premium ratio) of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 
were 80.0% and 97.8% respectively as against 85.8% 
and 91.8% respectively for the previous financial 
year. The loss ratio of the Company for financial year 
ended March 31, 2025 was 72.8% as against 70.3% 
for the previous financial year. The combined ratio of 
the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 
2025 was 109.3% as against 108.7% for the previous 
financial year.
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (“IRDAI”) requires insurance companies to 
maintain a minimum solvency of 1.5 times which is 
calculated in a manner as specified in the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
(Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of 
Insurers) Regulations, 2024. The solvency margin 
position of the Company as at March 31, 2025 was 
2.24 times as compared to 1.61 times as at March 31, 
2024. The net worth of the Company increased from 
` 2,515 Crore as at March 31, 2024 to ` 4,033 Crore 
as at March 31, 2025.
4.	
Material changes and commitments affecting 
the financial position
There have been no material changes or commitments, 
affecting the financial position of the Company which 
have occurred between the end of financial year of 
the Company and the date of this report.
5.	
Weblink of the Annual Return
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(a) of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”), the annual return of the Company 
prepared as per Section 92(3) of the Act for the 
financial year 2024-25 will be placed on the website 
of the Company once the return is filed with the 
Registrar of Companies, Pune.
The annual return can be accessed on the website of 
the Company at https://www.godigit.com/investor-
relations
6.	
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
As on the date of this report, the Board of Directors 
comprises of seven (7) Directors, including a 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (Woman 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
14
Director), two Non-Executive Directors (including 
the Chairman), and four Independent Directors (one 
of whom is a Woman Director) as detailed in the 
Corporate Governance Report annexed to this Report.
Further, none of the Directors of the Company are 
disqualified from being appointed as Directors as 
specified in Section 164(2) of the Act and all the 
Directors have confirmed that they fulfill the ‘fit 
and proper’ criteria as laid down under Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
(Corporate Governance for Insurers) Regulations, 
2024 (“IRDAI CG Regulations”) read with Master 
Circular on Corporate Governance for Insurers, 2024 
dated May 22, 2024 (“CG Master Circular”) issued by 
IRDAI.
	
i)	
Appointments
	
During the year under review the following 
Directors have been appointed in the Company:
	
a)	
Mahender Kumar Garg (DIN: 00081454) 
was appointed as Additional Director in 
the category of Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company for the period 
starting from June 30, 2024 and till May 
9, 2028, not liable to retire by rotation. 
Subsequently, the Members of the Company 
at the Annual General Meeting  (“AGM”) 
held on August 14, 2024, approved the 
appointment of Mahender Kumar Garg as 
Non-Executive Independent Director of the 
Company with effect from June 30, 2024.
	
b)	
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan 
(DIN: 
05242795) was appointed as Additional 
Director in the category of Non-Executive 
Director with effect from June 30, 2024, 
liable to retire by rotation. Subsequently, 
the Members of the Company at the 
AGM held on August 14, 2024, approved 
the 
appointment 
of 
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan as Non-Executive Director 
of the Company with effect from June 30, 
2024.
	
c)	
Mukul Kant Gupta (DIN: 08730748) was 
appointed as Additional Director in the 
category of Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company for the period 
of 3 years with effect from November 
21, 2024, not liable to retire by rotation. 
The said appointment was approved by 
the Members of the Company through a 
resolution passed through postal ballot on 
January 18, 2025.
	
ii)	
Resignation
	
Pursuant to the provisions of clause 2.4 (a) of 
CG Master Circular, the maximum age limit for 
Non-Executive Directors of the Board, is capped 
at 75 years and after attaining the age of 75 
years, no person should continue on the Board 
of an insurer. Provided that in cases where the 
Non-Executive Director had already attained the 
age of 75 years as on the date of issue of the 
CG Master Circular, such insurers were required 
to appoint new incumbent in place of such Non-
Executive Director by June 30, 2024. 
	
To 
meet 
the 
abovementioned 
regulatory 
requirement, 
Chandran 
Ratnaswami 
had 
resigned as the Non-Executive Director of the 
Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024 and Rajendra Beri 
had resigned as the Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024 i.e. 
before the expiry of his current term. The Board 
placed on record its sincere appreciation for the 
services rendered by Chandran Ratnaswami and 
Rajendra Beri during their tenure as Directors of 
the Company.
	
iii)	 Retirement by Rotation
	
At the ensuing AGM, pursuant to provisions 
of Section 152 of the Act, Kamesh Goyal 
(DIN: 01816985) will retire by rotation and 
being eligible, he has offered himself for re-
appointment. Pursuant to the recommendations 
of 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”), the Board recommends his 
re-appointment at the ensuing AGM.
	
A resolution seeking Members approval for 
appointment of a Director in place of Kamesh 
Goyal (DIN: 01816985), who retires by rotation 
and, being eligible, offers himself for re-
appointment, will form part of the Notice of 9th 
AGM. Kamesh Goyal is not disqualified from 
being appointed as a Director under Section 164 
of the Act.
	
The profile and particulars of experience, 
attributes and skills of Kamesh Goyal along with 
details as required will form part of the Notice of 
the 9th AGM.
	
The details of Key Managerial Personnel (“KMPs”) 
are provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report annexed to this report.
	
There is no change in the KMPs appointed by the 
Company, pursuant to Section 203 of the Act, 
during the financial year.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
15
14
123
01
	
	
Declaration of Independence
	
All 
Independent 
Directors 
have 
given 
declarations that they meet the criteria of 
independence as laid down under Section 
149(6) & (7) of the Act read with the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014 and Regulation 16(1)(b) and 
Regulation 25 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from 
time to time. All the Independent Directors 
have also confirmed that they have complied 
with Schedule IV of the Act and the applicable 
provisions.
7.	
Number of Meetings of the Board
The Board of Directors met eleven (11) times 
during the year. The detailed information of the 
dates of meetings of the Board and its Committees, 
attendance of Directors/Committee Members at the 
meetings, constitution of the Board and Committees 
of the Board including name, qualification, field of 
specialization, status of Directorship held, etc. and 
their terms of reference, are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to this Report.
8.	
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
In accordance with the requirements of clause (c) of 
sub-section (3) of section 134 read with sub-section 
(5) of 134 of the Act, the Board of Directors confirms:
(a)	 in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been 
followed along with proper explanation relating 
to material departures;
(b)	 the Directors have selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company as at March 
31, 2025 and of the profit of the Company for 
that period;
(c)	
the Directors have taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
(d)	 the annual accounts have been prepared on a 
going concern basis;
(e)	 the Directors have laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
operating effectively;
(f)	
the Directors have devised proper systems to 
ensure compliance with the provisions of all 
applicable laws and that such systems are 
adequate and operating effectively.
9.	
Policy on Appointment and Remuneration 
of Directors and Policy on Remuneration of 
Employees
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178 of the Act, 
Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
IRDAI CG Regulations and CG Master Circular, the 
Company has formulated the Policy on Appointment 
and Remuneration of Directors of Go Digit General 
Insurance Limited and the Policy on Remuneration 
of Employees and Key Managerial Persons (“the 
Remuneration Policies”), including the criteria for 
remuneration to Directors, KMP and other employees 
as recommended by the NRC and duly approved 
by the Board. The Remuneration Policies further lay 
down the criteria for identification of persons who are 
qualified and fit and proper to become Directors on the 
Board including criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a Director.
The Remuneration Policies are hosted on the website 
of the Company at https://www.godigit.com/investor-
relations.
The key features and objectives of the remuneration 
policies are given in Annexure II of Notes to Accounts 
forming part of the financial statements.
10.	 Conservation 
of 
Energy 
& 
Technology 
Absorption
Considering the nature of business of the Company, 
the information relating to conservation of energy 
as per Section 134(3) of the Act and Rule 8(3) of 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is not applicable 
to the Company and the details pertaining to the 
environmental conservation and usage of energy 
are detailed in the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability 
Report 
annexed 
to 
this 
report. 
Your Company extensively uses technology in 
its operations. Following are the disclosures for 
technology absorption required under rule 8(1) of 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014:
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
16
Sr. No.
Particulars
Remarks
1.
Efforts 
made 
towards 
technology 
absorption;
i.	
Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) enabled Auto Parts Damage 
Detection and Recommendation Tool for Motor Claims - An AI 
tool built completely in-house by Go Digit.
ii.	
E-mail Intent Classification – Go Digit has built an intent-
classification AI engine.
iii.	
Instant Customer Sentiment Detection Model – Go Digit has 
developed an AI-based sentiment analysis model. 
iv.	
Go Digit VRL: An ML-based Real-Time NAT-CAT Granular Risk 
Assessment Tool – Inhouse built Go Digit VRL is ML-based risk 
assessment tools for natural catastrophes like floods.
v.	
Testing and Deployment Automation – To solve frequent 
downtimes caused by faulty code deployments, impacting 
productivity and customer experience, Go Digit has built a 
mesh map to visualize “Calls From” and “Calls To” relationships 
between services.
2.
Benefits 
derived 
like 
product 
improvement, cost reduction, product 
development or import substitution
i.	
AI-enabled Auto Parts Damage Detection and Recommendation 
Tool for Motor Claims - The AI tool makes the claims assessment 
accurate, faster and quicker, requiring less human resource and 
also aids in mitigating fraud.
ii.	
E-mail Intent Classification - The model reads incoming emails 
and predicts their intent, assigns priority and auto-generates 
replies through robotic automation, thus reducing response time 
and improving efficiency. It mimics human decision-making to 
automate routine tasks, allowing human agents to focus on 
complex issues.
iii.	
Instant Customer Sentiment Detection Model - The model 
detects sentiments in audio and text, analyze calls in real time 
and prompt for team leader intervention where the score is a 
high negative. This approach helps identify and address irate 
customers quickly, significantly improving customer experience 
and ensuring timely resolution of concerns.
iv.	
Go Digit VRL: An ML-based Real-Time NAT-CAT Granular Risk 
Assessment Tool - It scores and classifies risks in real time at a 
granular level, predicting potential damage to insured assets 
from riverine, flash, and urban floods. Given India’s diverse 
terrain, VRL addresses underwriting challenges by analysing 
multiple parameters to generate unique risk scores, enabling 
faster, more accurate underwriting decisions. This innovation 
has improved Go Digit’s Property & Casualty portfolio by 
reducing the Mean Damage Ratio for NAT-CAT losses, 
enhancing overall risk management and profitability.
v.	
Testing and Deployment Automation - This has helped in 
pinpointing dependencies and ensure comprehensive testing 
enhancing system stability.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
17
14
123
01
Sr. No.
Particulars
Remarks
3.
In case of imported technology (imported 
during the last three years reckoned from 
the beginning of the financial year)-
a.	
the details of technology imported
b.	
the year of import
c.	
whether the technology been fully 
absorbed
d.	
if not fully absorbed, areas where 
absorption has not taken place, and 
the reasons thereof;
Not Applicable.
4.
Expenditure incurred on Research and 
Development
Not Applicable
11.	 Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
Foreign exchange earnings during the year were 
₹ 91.5 Crore (USD 10.7 million). The foreign exchange 
outgo during the year was ₹ 185.6 Crore (USD 21.7 
million).
12.	 Risk Management Policy
Your Company has a risk management policy to 
identify and mitigate possible risks, which might 
endanger the existence of the Company. A statement 
on key risks and their mitigation is given in the 
Corporate Governance Report annexed to this Report.
13.	 Corporate Social Responsibility
Your Company has constituted a Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act. The Composition of the 
CSR Committee and the disclosure requirement as 
envisaged under Section 134(3)(o) and Section 135 
of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 are given in 
the annual report on CSR activities, annexed to this 
Report.
14.	 Performance Evaluation of the Board, its 
Committees and Directors
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations, IRDAI CG Regulations and CG Master 
Circular, the Board has carried out an annual 
performance evaluation of its own performance, 
and that of its Committees, and individual Directors 
(including Independent Director and Chairman and 
except for the Director being evaluated) for the 
financial year 2024-25 in the following manner:
•	
Evaluation sheets were filled by each of the 
Directors with regards to the evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its Committees and 
individual 
Directors 
(including 
Independent 
Director and Chairman and except for the 
Director being evaluated) for the year;
•	
The feedback received from all the Directors 
was then compiled, based on which a report of 
performance evaluation was prepared by the 
Chairman;
•	
The report on performance evaluation was then 
noted in the meeting of the Board of Directors;
The 
NRC 
reviewed 
the 
implementation 
and 
compliance of the evaluation process followed by the 
Company.
15.	 Significant and Material Orders passed by the 
Regulators or Courts or Tribunals
There were no significant and material orders passed 
by the Regulators or Courts or Tribunals during the 
year impacting the going concern status of your 
Company and its operations in future.
16.	 Adequacy of Internal Financial Controls
The Company has in place adequate internal 
financial controls commensurate with size, scale 
and complexity of its operations. During the year, 
such controls were tested and no reportable material 
weakness in the design or operations were observed.
The Company has policies and procedures in place for 
ensuring proper and efficient conduct of its business, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information.
17.	 Composition of Audit Committee
The Audit Committee was constituted by the Board in 
accordance with Section 177 of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations, IRDAI CG Regulations and CG Master 
Circular. The details in this regard are provided in 
the Corporate Governance Report annexed to this 
Report.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
18
18.	 Particulars of Employees
The statement containing particulars of employees 
as required under Section 197 of the Act read with 
Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
forms part of this Report. 
The statement containing particulars of employees 
as required under Section 197 read with Rule 5(2) 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 forms part of 
this Report. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the 
Annual Report including Financial Statements are 
being sent to the Members of the Company excluding 
the aforesaid statement. Further in terms of Section 
136 of the Act, the said annexure is open for inspection 
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the 
same may write to the Company Secretary of the 
Company at the registered office of the Company for 
a copy thereof.
19.	 Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013
The Company has constituted Internal Complaints 
Committee for redressal and timely management of 
sexual harassment complaints in line with the Act as 
well as Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. 
The Internal Committee has minimum 50% women 
representatives. The Internal Committee has a 
senior woman leader as the presiding officer of the 
Committee and one external member who is a subject 
matter expert in this regard.
To create awareness on this topic and to sensitize 
and educate the employees on the nuances of 
sexual harassment at workplace, the employees 
have to mandatorily undergo e-learning module on 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) during 
the year.
During the year under review, the complaints received, 
disposed and pending, pursuant to the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, are as follows:
Particulars
Details
Number of complaints pending at the 
beginning of the financial year
0
Number of complaints received during 
the financial year
1
Number of complaints resolved during 
the financial year
1
Number of complaints pending at the 
end of the financial year
0
20.	 Establishment of Vigil Mechanism
Your Company has vigil mechanism in place in the 
form of Whistle Blowing Mechanism. The Whistle 
Blowing Policy outlines the instances and the manner 
of raising concern by employees, establishment, 
powers and functions and decision making of Whistle 
Blower / Ethics Committee (Management level), 
whistle blower’s access to the Audit Committee 
in appropriate cases, protection to the employees 
raising concerns in good faith and action against 
false and frivolous concern.
The Company has also formulated a policy on leak 
or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive 
information pursuant to the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, to ensure necessary 
actions be initiated in case of reporting of any such 
cases and to entrust the employees with a sense of 
responsibility and vigilance and to prevent or take 
necessary actions in case of any such occurrence.
Necessary actions have been taken against the 
complaints received during the year under review. No 
complaints were open as at the year end.
21.	 Contracts or Arrangements with Related 
Parties
During the year, all the transactions with related 
parties were in the ordinary course of business and 
at arm’s length basis.
There were no material contracts or arrangement or 
transactions at arm’s length basis that need to be 
disclosed in Form AOC-2 as required under the Act. 
As required under Accounting Standard (AS) 18 on 
Related Party Disclosures, the details of related party 
transactions entered into by the Company during the 
financial year 2024-25 are covered in the Notes to 
Accounts forming part of the financial statements. The 
Joint Statutory Auditors of the Company have issued 
an unmodified opinion on the financial statements for 
financial year 2024-25 which includes related party 
transactions and related disclosures thereon.
22.	 Dividend
The Directors do not recommend any dividend for the 
financial year 2024-25. In accordance with Regulation 
43A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company 
has adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy, which 
covers various parameters based on which the Board 
may recommend or declare dividend. The Dividend 
Distribution Policy of the Company is hosted on the 
website of the Company at https://www.godigit.com/
investor-relations.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
19
14
123
01
23.	 Details of Subsidiary or Joint Venture or 
Associate Company
Your Company does not have any subsidiary or joint 
venture or associate company.
24.	 Share Capital
During the year, the Company has allotted 65,01,236 
Equity Shares against exercise of employee stock 
options (ESOPs).
As on March 31, 2025, the authorized share capital 
of the Company was ₹10,00,00,00,000 divided into 
1,00,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ₹ 10 each and paid-
up capital of the Company was ₹ 9,23,02,59,340 
divided into 92,30,25,934 Equity Shares of ₹ 10 each.
	
Initial Public Offering:
The Company listed its equity shares on both the 
recognized stock exchanges i.e. National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited with 
effect from May 23, 2024.
Pursuant to Initial Public Offering, the Company had 
raised capital of ` 1,125 Crore by way of fresh issue 
of 4,13,60,294 Equity Shares at a price of ` 272 per 
Equity Share (including a share premium of ` 262 per 
Equity Share).
25.	 Debentures
As on March 31, 2025, the Company had 3,500 
unsecured, 
unrated, 
unlisted, 
subordinated, 
redeemable 
and 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
(“NCDs”) outstanding. There was no unclaimed 
interest amount lying with the Company.
The terms of issuance of NCDs are covered in Note no. 
39 of Notes to Accounts forming part of the financial 
statements.
26.	 Amounts to be carried to reserves
Your Company does not propose to transfer any 
amounts to reserve.
27.	 Auditors’ Report
The observations made, if any, in the Auditors’ Report, 
read with the relevant notes to financial statements 
referred therein, are self-explanatory and hence do 
not call for any comments under Section 134 of the 
Act.
During the year, there was no fraud reported by the 
joint statutory auditors to the Audit Committee under 
sections 134(3)(ca) and 143(12) of the Act.
28.	 Auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 139, 142 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Act read 
with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force) 
and the IRDAI CG Regulations read with CG Master 
Circular and other applicable law, the Members of 
the Company have appointed Kirtane & Pandit LLP, 
Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration Number 
105215W / W100057) and PKF Sridhar & Santhanam 
LLP, Chartered Accountants, (Firm Registration 
Number 003990S/S200018) as the joint statutory 
auditors of the Company.
Kirtane & Pandit LLP holds office from the conclusion 
of Sixth AGM till the conclusion of Eleventh AGM of 
the Company and PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP 
holds office from the conclusion of Seventh AGM till 
the conclusion of Twelfth AGM of the Company.
29.	 Secretarial Auditor
Pursuant to Section 204 of the Act read with 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 
24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has 
appointed Kanj & Co. LLP, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, to conduct secretarial audit of the 
Company for the financial year 2024-25. The 
secretarial audit report for the financial year 2024-
25 is annexed to this Report. The observations in the 
secretarial audit report are self-explanatory and do 
not call for any comments under Section 134 of the 
Act.
Pursuant to the recent amendments to the provisions 
of Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Board of Directors has approved and recommended 
to the Members of the Company the appointment of 
Kanj & Co. LLP, Practicing Company Secretaries, as 
the Secretarial Auditor of the Company for a period 
of five (5) years from April 1, 2025 till March 31, 2030.
30.	 Cost records
The provisions pertaining to maintenance of cost 
records as per Section 148 of the Act, are not 
applicable to the Company. Therefore, the Company 
is not required to maintain cost records.
31.	 Deposits
Your Company has not accepted any public deposits 
during the year.
32.	 Particulars 
of 
Loans, 
Guarantees 
or 
Investments
The provisions of Section 186(4) of the Act, requiring 
disclosure in the financial statements of the full 
particulars of the loans given, investment made or 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
20
guarantee given or security provided including the 
purpose for which the loan or guarantee or security 
is proposed to be utilised by the recipient of the loan 
or guarantee or security, are not applicable to the 
Company, being an insurance company.
33.	 Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Company has generally complied with the 
provisions of Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India, for the time 
being in force and applicable, during the financial 
year 2024-25.
34.	 Disclosures in relation to the Companies 
(Share Capital and Debenture) Rules, 2014 
and SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021
(a)	 the Company has not issued any equity shares 
with differential rights during the year and hence 
no information as per provisions of Rule 4(4) has 
been furnished;
(b)	 the Company has not issued any sweat equity 
shares during the year and hence no information 
as per provisions of Rule 8(13) has been 
furnished; and
(c)	
Employee Stock Option Plan-
The Company has formulated an Employee Stock 
Option Plan titled as Go Digit Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2018 (“ESOP Plan”) with the aim of retaining 
and attracting talent and in administering the issue of 
Stock Options to its eligible employees including the 
employees of the holding company.
There has been no material variation in the terms of 
the options granted under the ESOP Plan except for 
the modification in the minimum vesting period of the 
options from 2 years to 1 year from the date of grant 
as approved by the Members in their AGM held on 
August 14, 2024 and the same is in compliance with 
SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“SBEB & SE Regulations”). 
As required under the SBEB & SE Regulations, 
post listing of the equity shares of the Company on 
Stock Exchanges, the ESOP Plan was ratified by 
the Members of the Company in their AGM held on 
August 14, 2024.
The annual certificate on compliance with SBEB & SE 
Regulations, issued by the Kanj & Co. LLP, Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company shall be made available for 
inspection by the Members of the Company at the 
ensuing AGM.
There were no instances of loan granted by the 
Company to its employees for purchasing/ subscribing 
its shares.
The statutory disclosures as mandated under 
the SBEB & SE Regulations and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, have been hosted on the website of 
the Company at https://www.godigit.com/investor-
relations.
35.	 Update on IndAS
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘’MCA”) has notified 
Indian Accounting Standard (“IND AS”) 117 Insurance 
Contracts (Indian equivalent of International Financial 
Reporting Standard 17) on August 12, 2024 and is 
effective from April 1, 2024.
IRDAI vide its approach note dated September 30, 
2024 has circulated phase wise implementation 
plan of IND AS in the insurance sector with the 
implementation date as April 1, 2027.
Indian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“IGAAP”) financial statements shall continue to 
be considered as the financial statements for all 
regulatory purposes during this period.
36.	 Any revision of financial statements or report 
of the Board
There has been no revision of financial statements or 
reports of the Board during the financial year 2024-
25.
37.	 Credit Rating
During the year, the rating agency CRISIL Ratings 
Ltd. (“CRISIL”), has re-affirmed their ratings to A+ 
(pronounced as CRISIL A plus rating) in favor of the 
Company. The credit rating certificate issued by 
CRISIL has been made available on the website of 
the Company at www.godigit.com/investor-relations.
38.	 Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Company is required to publish 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(“BRSR”) as a part of its annual report. The BRSR 
maps the sustainability disclosure of the Company 
against the nine principles of the ‘National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct’ issued by the MCA.
The disclosure related to BRSR of the Company for 
the financial year 2024-25 is annexed to this report 
and is also hosted on the website of the Company 
and can be viewed on www.godigit.com/investor-
relations.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
21
14
123
01
39.	 Disclosures under Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016
	
a.	
Details of application made or any 
proceeding pending under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
	
During the year, the Company has not filed any 
application nor any such proceeding is pending 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016.
	
b.	
Details of One Time Settlement under 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
	
The 
requirement 
of 
disclosing 
details 
of 
difference between amount of the valuation 
done at the time of one time settlement and 
the valuation done while taking loan from the 
banks or financial institutions is not applicable, 
as the Company has not filed any application for 
settlement under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 during the year.
40.	 Acknowledgements
The Directors would like to take this opportunity to 
express their sincere appreciation for the continued 
support and guidance of all the Regulatory Authorities, 
Company’s Bankers, Consultants, Advisors and 
Members.
The Directors also wish to place on record their 
appreciation for the dedicated efforts put in by the 
employees of the Company at all levels.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
Kamesh Goyal
Chairman
DIN – 01816985
Date: April 28, 2025
Place: Bengaluru, India
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
22
To,
The Members,
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
1 to 6 Floor, Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane,
Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No.1579,
Shivajinagar, Pune, 411005
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Go Digit General Insurance 
Limited (hereinafter called ‘the Company’) bearing CIN- 
L66010PN2016PLC167410. The Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us with a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025, complied with 
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper Board-processes and compliance- 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and 
subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025, according to the provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder (to the extent 
Applicable);
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
bye-laws framed thereunder;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment;
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) (to the extent Applicable);: -
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule no. 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial 
Acquisition 
of 
Shares 
and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015;
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations 2021;
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993 
regarding 
the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
and
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
vi.	
The list of Acts and regulations specifically applicable 
to the Company are given below:
	
a.	
The Insurance Act, 1938 including amendments 
and part thereof;
	
b.	
The Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 and rules and regulations 
made thereunder;
	
c.	
The Rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars and 
notifications issued by the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as 
are applicable to a General Insurance Company.
	
d.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
23
14
123
01
(ii)	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with Stock Exchange(s), if applicable;
During the period under review the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above, subject to 
the following observations:
SEBI 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing 
Regulations)
The Company had submitted details of Related Party 
Transactions under Regulation 23(9) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations along with the financials of the Company 
for half year ended September 30, 2024, on October 24, 
2024 within 30 minutes of conclusion of Board Meeting. 
However, XBRL submission of the same was made with 
delay on October 25, 2024 and to that extent the Company 
has not complied with the provisions of Regulation 23(9) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. A fine of ` 5,000/- each 
was levied by National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
and BSE Limited on the Company and the Company has 
paid the specified amount of fine.
We further report that subject to our observations:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with a proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-
Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The 
changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent in advance, and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clarifications on 
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings 
were carried out unanimously. As per the records available 
in the said minutes there were no dissenting views 
expressed by any director in the meetings.
The Company has duly filled the E-Forms with the 
Registrar of Companies, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the 
Reserve Bank of India, except for a few instances, where 
the forms were filed beyond prescribed time with payment 
of additional fees.
The Company has duly made the applicable statutory 
submissions with IRDAI, except for a few instances where 
submissions were made beyond prescribed time by 
seeking necessary extensions from IRDAI.
We further report that during the audit period:
1.	
The company has not initiated any actions such as 
Right issue of shares /debentures/sweat equity, etc., 
Redemption / buy-back of securities.
2.	
There were no instances of decisions taken by 
the members in pursuance to section 180 of the 
Companies Act, 2013
3.	
There were no instances of Merger / amalgamation/ 
reconstruction, etc.
4.	
The company has not entered into any foreign 
technical collaborations which have a major bearing 
on the company’s affairs in pursuance of the 
above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, 
standards, etc. referred to above.
During the year, the Company has made the following allotments pursuant to exercise of ESOPs
Serial 
No.
Date of Allotment
Number of Shares 
allotted under ESOP
1.
April 5, 2024
6,77,642
2.
July 15, 2024
5,97,202
3.
July 31, 2024
1,73,835
4.
August 6, 2024
4,50,147
5.
August 12, 2024
20,63,126
6.
August 14, 2024
1,03,500
7.
August 27, 2024
89,127
8.
September 4, 2024
94,780
9.
September 10, 2024
66,041
10.
September 17, 2024
1,04,820
11.
September 24, 2024
36,577
12.
October 18, 2024
58,802
13.
October 31, 2024
10,501
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
24
Serial 
No.
Date of Allotment
Number of Shares 
allotted under ESOP
14.
November 14, 2024
3,48,205
15.
November 22, 2024
35,352
16.
December 3, 2024
2,05,402
17.
December 18, 2024
5,91,800
18.
December 25, 2024
13,023
19.
January 28, 2025
1,84,706
20.
February 6, 2025
4,34,680
21.
February 19, 2025
72,678
22.
March 12, 2025
49,198
23
March 22, 2025
40,092
For KANJ & CO. LLP
Company Secretaries
Sunil G Nanal
Partner
FCS No. 5977
CP No. 2809
UDIN: F005977G000232907
Firm Unique Code: P2000MH005900
Peer Review Number: 6304/2024
Date: April 29, 2025.
Place: Pune
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
25
14
123
01
1.	
A brief outline of Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Policy:
Go Digit believes to be meaningful to not only its customers but also to the society at large, in the ambit of its services. 
As a responsibility towards the growth of the community and protection of the environment, Digit would channel 
the resources towards (a) ensuring environmental sustainability and (b) promoting education. Digit has processes 
that would help in incorporating these initiatives as a part of the business culture and would partner projects and 
activities to promote the same.
The CSR Policy of the Company sets the framework guiding the Company’s CSR activities. It outlines the list of CSR 
activities that may be undertaken by the Company, modalities of execution of CSR projects/ programs, operating 
framework and monitoring mechanism of CSR Projects/ Programs.
The CSR committee is responsible to monitor the CSR policy of the Company.
2.	
Composition of the CSR Committee:
The Composition of the Committee is as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/
Nature of Directorship
Number of
meetings of CSR 
Committee held
during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the 
year
1.
Vandana Gupta1
Chairperson, Non-Executive 
Independent Director
1
1
2.
Kamesh Goyal2
Non-Executive Director
1
0
3.
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan3
Non-Executive Director
1
NA
4.
Christof Mascher
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
1
1
5.
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer (“MD & CEO”)
1
1
6.
Chandran Ratnaswami4
Non-Executive Director
1
0
	
(1)	
Vandana Gupta was appointed as the Chairperson of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from October 
24, 2024.
	
(2)	
Kamesh Goyal ceased to be the Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from October 
24, 2024.
	
(3)	
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect 
from July 1, 2024.
	
(4)	
Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from 
June 30, 2024.
3.	
Web-link where composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board 
are disclosed on the website of the Company.
The composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and other specified details are available on the website of the 
Company at (https://www.godigit.com/content/dam/godigit/general/investor-relations/euclid/corporate-social-
responsibility-policy.pdf).
4.	
Details of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if 
applicable
Not applicable
5. 	 (a)	 Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135:
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
26
	
The Company has negative average profit for the immediately three preceding financial years calculated in 
accordance with the provisions of CG Master Circular and IRDAI CG Regulations.
	
(b)	 Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135:
	
Not applicable
	
(c)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years
	
Not applicable
	
(d)	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
	
Not applicable
	
(e)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year ((b)+(c)-(d))
	
Not applicable
6.	
(a)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects:
	
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project.
Item 
from the 
list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act.
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No).
Location of the 
project.
Project 
duration.
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in `).
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
financial 
Year (in 
`).
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
for the 
project as 
per Section 
135(6) (in 
`).
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct (Yes/No).
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Through 
Implementing 
Agency
State. District.
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number.
1.
Not applicable
2.
3.
Total
	
	
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities 
in schedule 
VII to the 
Act.
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No).
Location of the 
project.
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project (in 
`).
Mode of 
implementation 
- Direct (Yes/
No).
Mode of 
implementation - 
Through implementing 
agency.
State. District.
Name.
CSR 
registration 
number.
1.
Not applicable
2.
3.
Total
	
(b)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
	
(c)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Nil
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
27
14
123
01
	
(d)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: Nil
	
(e)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Spent for 
the Financial Year. 
(in `)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
sub-section(6) of section 135.
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso to 
sub-section (5) of section 135.
Amount.
Date of 
transfer.
Name of the 
Fund
Amount.
Date of 
transfer.
Not applicable
	
(f)	  Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl. 
No.
Particular
Amount 
(in `)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
Nil
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
Nil
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
Nil
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
Nil
7.	
(a) 	Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s).
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
under 
section 135 
(6) (in `)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under sub-
section (6) 
of section 
135(in `)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year 
(in `).
Amount transferred 
to a Fund as specified 
under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso 
to sub-section (5) of 
section 135, if any.
Amount 
remaining 
to be 
spent in 
succeeding 
financial 
years.
(in `)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in `).
Date of 
transfer.
1.
Nil
2.
3.
Total
8.	
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, details relating to the asset so created or acquired 
through CSR spent in the financial year – Not applicable
9.	
Reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-
section (5) of section 135(5)
Not applicable
Kamesh Goyal
(DIN: 01816985)
Member of CSR Committee
Place: Bengaluru
Jasleen Kohli
(DIN: 07634112)
Member of CSR Committee
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 28, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
28
Disclosures required with respect to Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 5(1) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median employee’s remuneration and such other details in terms 
of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and as amended from time to time.
1.	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the 
Company for the financial year;
Name
Designation
ratio of the remuneration of 
each director to the median 
remuneration of the employees of 
the company for the financial year
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive Chairman
-
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
-
Chandran Ratnaswami
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
-
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer
58:1
Vandana Gupta
Non-executive, Independent Director
3:1
Christof Mascher
Non-executive, Independent Director
4:1
Mahender Kumar Garg
Non-executive, Independent Director
2:1
Mukul Gupta
Non-executive, Independent Director
0.15:1
Rajendra Beri
Non-executive, Independent Director
2:1
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Kamesh Goyal, Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan and Chandran Ratnaswami being the Non-Executive, Non-Independent 
Directors of the Company, do not draw any remuneration from the Company.
	
2.	
The remuneration of the Managing Director & CEO includes Fixed Pay and Variable Pay paid during the year including the 
perquisite value as calculated under the Income Tax Act, 1961, in accordance with the approval received from Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) and Members of the Company.
	
3.	
The ratio of remuneration of Non-Executive Independent Directors is calculated after considering sitting fees for attending 
the Board and Committee Meetings for financial year 2024-25. The median remuneration excludes sitting fees paid to Non-
Executive Independent Directors during the financial year.
	
4.	
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 
2024.
	
5.	
Mahender Kumar Garg was appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024.
	
6.	
Mukul Kant Gupta was appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. November 21, 2024.
	
7.	
Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024
	
8.	
Rajendra Beri ceased to be Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024.
2.	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive 
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the financial year;
Name
Designation
the percentage increase/
(decrease) in remuneration of 
each director, Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary 
in FY2024-25
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive Chairman
 -
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
 -
Chandran Ratnaswami
Non-Executive Non Independent Director
 -
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
8.00%
Vandana Gupta
Non-Executive, Independent Director
51.61%
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
29
14
123
01
Name
Designation
the percentage increase/
(decrease) in remuneration of 
each director, Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary 
in FY2024-25
Christof Mascher
Non-Executive, Independent Director
39.53%
Mahender Kumar Garg
Non-Executive, Independent Director
 -
Mukul Gupta
Non-Executive, Independent Director
 -
Rajendra Beri
Non-Executive, Independent Director
 -
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
8.00%
Tejas Saraf
Company Secretary
25.00%
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Kamesh Goyal, Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan and Chandran Ratnaswami being the Non-Executive, Non-Independent 
Directors of the Company, do not draw any remuneration from the Company.
	
2.	
The variation reflected in column % change in remuneration of Independent Directors for financial year 2024-25 is on account 
of number of Board/ Committee meetings, membership in the Committee and attendance of directors thereat during the 
financial year.
	
3.	
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 
2024.
	
4.	
Mahender Kumar Garg was appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024.
	
5.	
Mukul Kant Gupta was appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. November 21, 2024.
	
6.	
Chandran Ratnaswami was ceased to be Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024
	
7.	
Rajendra Beri ceased to be Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 2024.
3.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year;
	
The Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employee in the last financial year was 6.3%.
4.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company;
	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2025 were 4534.
5.	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial 
remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for 
increase in the managerial remuneration;
	
The average percentile increase in the salaries of employees other than the Key Managerial Personnel in FY2024 
was 8.44%, while the average percentile increase in the salaries of the Key Managerial Personnel was in the range 
of 5% to 40%.
6.	
The key parameters for any variable component of remuneration availed by the Directors;
	
The remuneration paid to Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for the financial year 2024-
25 is pursuant to Company’s policy on remuneration to Directors, Section 34A of Insurance Act 1938 and as per the 
approvals received from Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
7.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid to the Directors, managerial personnel and other employees was as 
per the Company’s remuneration policies.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
Kamesh Goyal
Place: Bengaluru, India 	
Chairman
Date of Signing: April 28, 2025 	
DIN – 01816985
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
30
FY 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited (“the Company”) was 
incorporated on December 07, 2016, under the Companies 
Act, 2013 and is a subsidiary of Go Digit Infoworks 
Services Private Limited.
Industry Overview
During FY2024-25, the non-life insurance industry grew 
by 6.2% to ₹ 3.08 trillion from ₹ 2.90 trillion in FY2023-
24. Private multiline insurers grew by 5.0%, public sector 
multiline insurers grew by 5.5%, Stand-alone health 
insurers (“SAHI”) grew by 16.1% and specialized insurers 
de-grew by 1.0%. Market share for Private multiline 
insurers, public sector multiline insurers, SAHI and 
specialized insurers was 52.9%, 31.0%, 12.5% and 3.6% 
respectively compared to 53.5%, 31.2%, 11.4% and 3.9% 
respectively in FY2023-24.
Health business (including personal accident segment) 
grew by 9.1% to ₹1.27 trillion from ₹1.17 trillion in 
FY2023-24, motor grew by 7.9% to ₹991 billion from ₹918 
billion in FY2023-24. Commercial segments, which include 
Fire, Marine, Engineering, Liability and Aviation, grew by 
1.1% to ₹425 billion from ₹420 billion in FY2023-24. Other 
miscellaneous segment de-grew by 0.8% to ₹389 billion 
from ₹392 billion in FY2023-24.
On May 17, 2024 IRDA notified that multi-year premium 
received (net of Goods & Service Tax) for long-term non-
motor insurance policies sold on or after October 01, 2024, 
is recognized as income on a year-to-year basis over the 
policy period on 1/n basis where ‘n’ denotes the term of the 
policy in years.
During March 2025, IRDAI had its 129th IRDAI Authority 
Meeting where below agendas were discussed:
1.	
Reduction in Indian Market Terrorism Risk Insurance 
Pool (IMTRIP) Rates: A presentation was made for 
10% rate reduction for terrorism add-on cover.
2.	
Implementation of Ind AS: Ongoing efforts to 
implement Ind AS in the insurance sector, with phased 
assessments.
3.	
Risk Based Capital (RBC): Progress on establishing 
an RBC framework, with Quantitative Impact Study 2 
based on March 2025 data.
4.	
Risk 
Based 
Supervisory 
Framework 
(RBSF): 
Continued development and pilot examinations for 
RBSF.
5.	
Public Awareness Campaign: A pan-India multi-
media campaign to raise awareness about the need 
for insurance is in progress.
6.	
State Insurance Plan: Initiatives for insurance 
inclusion across all States/UTs, with a multi-tiered 
governance model.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Performance Review
Company recorded gross written premium of ₹10,282 Crore during FY2024-25 vs. ₹9,016 Crore during FY2023-24, 
registering a growth of 14.0%, as against private sector multiline insurers growth of 5.0%. Following is the GWP mix and 
growth of the Company during last 3 financial years.
% GWP
GWP Mix
Growth
FY23
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY24
FY25
Motor – Own Damage
19%
22%
22%
66%
42%
14%
Motor – Third Party
44%
39%
35%
29%
11%
3%
Motor – Total
63%
61%
57%
38%
21%
7%
Health, Travel & Personal Accident
13%
19%
22%
44%
80%
30%
Fire
9%
9%
8%
25%
19%
2%
Others
15%
11%
13%
37%
-8%
34%
Total
100%
100%
100%
37%
25%
14%
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
31
14
123
01
We aim to make insurance simple. Through innovation and 
transparency, we believe in delivering a seamless customer 
experience journey in a significant financial product an 
individual would purchase in their lifetime. We are one 
of the leading digital full stack insurance companies, 
leveraging our technology to power what we believe to be 
an innovative approach to product design, distribution and 
customer experience for non-life insurance products. We 
offer motor insurance, health insurance, travel insurance, 
property insurance, marine insurance, liability insurance 
and other insurance products, which the customers can 
customize to meet their needs.
The Company’s technology platform supports its product 
design by enabling the incorporation of a modular product 
architecture and provides the backbone for its application 
program interfaces (“API”), applications, portals and 
website that allow customers and partners to engage 
with the Company conveniently. We are one of the leading 
digital full stack insurance companies, leveraging our 
technology to power what we believe to be an innovative 
approach to product design, distribution, and customer 
experience for non-life insurance products. We have end-
to-end digital capabilities and a digital first approach 
across customers’ insurance value chain.
Outlook, Opportunities and Threats
The penetration with respect to Non-Life Insurance 
Industry remained same at 1 per cent during FY2023-24 
as in FY2022-23. In 2023-24, the insurance density in 
India showed a modest rise, non-life insurance density 
increased from USD 22 to USD 25. This upward trend in 
insurance density has been consistent since 2016-17.1 
Based on rising level of young population and increasing 
disposable income, the Company is well placed to tap 
the growing market with its modular product design, 
technology-enabled distribution and processes and 
the Company’s mission to make insurance simpler. The 
customer experience is core to what we do. Insurance 
products have historically been hard to understand and 
sign up for, and making and settling claims has been 
cumbersome. We are dedicated to establishing trust and 
promoting transparency in our relationships with our 
customers by simplifying insurance and offering easy-
to-understand, customizable products that enhance our 
customers’ experience.
The Company is invested in Artificial Intelligence and 
Machine Learning to improve the customer journey across 
products, product underwriting and claim assessment. 
The Company believes that these investments should aid 
in increasing customer satisfaction while also generating 
better returns for shareholders. Our use of technology 
and AI-driven microsystems, or bots, to streamline a 
major amount of our operations across the onboarding, 
underwriting, servicing and claims processes allows us 
to deliver a simple and tailored customer and partner 
experience while keeping our employee base lean. In 
addition, while our approach requires a certain level 
of ongoing investment in technology and headcount 
1 IRDA Annual Report 2023-24
Following is the snapshot of the Company’s financial and operational performance for FY2024-25
Gross Written Premium (1)
Market Share (1,2)
Diverse product portfolio (3)
` 10,282 cr.
3.3 / 5.9 
Market share for Total / 
Motor insurance
85
Active products launched 
since 2017
1.1 cr policies sold (1)
Partner network (3)
Digitally enabled claims (3)
6.7 cr.
71,870
29.4 Lacs
Claims settled since inception
Assets under Management(3)
Manual Policy Issuances (1)
Customer satisfaction score (1)
` 19,703 cr.
0.46
95.8 / 80.0
Motor Claims / Non-Claims
Notes:
1. Data for the period FY 2025.
2. Market share is based on our Gross Written Premium of FY 2025.
3. Data as of March 31, 2025
4. Customers/people covered under policies issued since inception of operations in 2017 till March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
32
over time, we expect our overall marginal cost spent to 
support new business as a percentage of our premiums 
will continue to decline and ultimately result in increased 
profitability of our insurance operations as we scale.
We are dedicated to establishing a “partnership” in our 
relationship with our distributors. Our distribution partners 
include individual agents, POSPs, corporate agents, motor 
insurance service providers (“MISPs”) and brokers. Our 
partners range from older agencies to new non-bank 
financial companies, and each has a different way of 
operating and a different level of technical capability. We 
understand these differences and extend our technology 
and expertise to our distribution partners to develop 
customized solutions that provides them with the tools, 
products, information and support to effectively target and 
service customers.
Loss reserves are based on estimates as to future claims 
liabilities and if they prove inadequate, it could lead to 
further increases in reserves and materially adversely 
affect our results of operations. Catastrophic events, 
including natural disasters, terrorist attack or nuclear 
disaster, could materially increase our liabilities for claims 
by customers.
Way forward
	
Provide relevant, transparent and customizable 
coverage to policyholders
	
Empower distribution partners through innovative 
use of technology through customized integrations 
and self-service modules
	
Leverage databank, utilize Artificial Intelligence 
and Machine learning to enable algorithms driven 
strategic decisions
Key Financial Information
Particulars
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2025
Q4 FY24
Q4 FY25
Gross Written Premium (Crore)
7,243
9,016
10,282
2,336
2,576
Net Retention Ratio
81.6%
85.8%
80.0%
89.9%
78.9%
Profit After Tax (Crore)
36
182
425
53
116
Asset Under Management (Crore)
12,668
15,764
19,703
15,764
19,703
Net-worth
2,325
2,515
4,033
2,515
4,033
Return on Average Net-worth
1.7%
7.5%
13.0%
2.1%[1]
2.9%[1]
Solvency Ratio
1.78
1.61
2.24
1.61
2.24
Claims Ratio
67.2%
70.3%
72.8%
72.2%
76.5%
Combined Ratio
107.4%
108.7%
109.3%
108.8%
111.3%
Combined Ratio (COR) without 1/n basis
107.4%
108.7%
108.6%
108.8%
109.7%
Number of Employees
3,333
3,970
4,534
3,970
4,534
[1] Non-annualized
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
33
14
123
01
Corporate Governance Report
1.	
Company’s philosophy on code of governance
The Company is fully committed to follow sound 
corporate governance practices and uphold the 
highest business standards in conducting business. 
The Company continues to focus on building 
trust with shareholders, regulators, policyholders, 
employees, suppliers, channel partners, distributors, 
statutory authorities and other stakeholders based 
on the principles of good corporate governance viz. 
integrity, environment, equity, transparency, fairness, 
sound 
disclosure 
practices, 
accountability 
and 
commitment to values. The Company’s governance 
framework encompasses not only regulatory and 
legal requirements but also several voluntary 
practices aimed at maximizing shareholders’ value 
legally, ethically and on a sustainable basis.
The Company’s corporate governance architecture 
has been strengthened through various policies, 
frameworks and codes adopted by the Company. The 
Company is committed to conduct business with the 
highest standards of compliance, integrity, honesty, 
fairness and responsible business practices with zero 
tolerance for fraud or illegal acts.
The 
corporate 
governance 
philosophy 
of 
the 
Company is based on an effective independent 
Board, the separation of the Board’s supervisory role 
from the executive management and the constitution 
of the Board Committees to oversee critical areas. 
The Company’s corporate governance establishes 
that the Board’s independence is essential to bring 
objectivity and transparency to the management and 
in the dealings of the Company.
2.	
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible 
for ensuring fairness, transparency and accountability 
of the Company’s business operations and it provides 
appropriate directions, with regard to leadership, 
vision, strategies, policies, monitoring, supervision, 
accountability to shareholders and to achieve greater 
levels of performance on a sustained basis as well 
as adherence to the best practices of corporate 
governance.
The Board plays a pivotal role in the creation of 
stakeholder value and ensures that the Company 
adopts sound and ethical business practices and that 
the resources of the Company are optimally used. The 
Board periodically reviews and approves the strategy 
and oversees the decisions of the Management. The 
Company has a multi-tier management structure, 
comprising the Board of Directors and its Committees 
at the apex, followed by management committees 
and the officials of the Company. Through this, it is 
ensured that strategic supervision is provided by the 
Board; control and implementation of the Company’s 
strategy 
are 
achieved 
effectively, 
operational 
management remains focused on implementation; 
information regarding the Company’s operations and 
financial performance is made available promptly; 
delegation of decision making with accountability 
is achieved; financial and operating control and 
integrity are maintained at an optimal level; and risks 
are suitably evaluated and dealt with.
	
Composition and Category
The Board has a judicious mix of executive, non-
executive and independent Directors. The Board 
comprises of competent and qualified Directors to 
drive the strategies in a manner that would sustain 
the growth of the Company and protect the interest 
of various stakeholders in general and policyholders 
in particular.
As at March 31, 2025, the Board of Directors of the 
Company had seven (7) Directors. Out of the seven 
(7) Directors, two (2) are Non-Executive Directors, 
four (4) are Independent Directors and one is (1) 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (“MD 
& CEO”), who is an Executive Director. The Chairman 
is a Non-Executive Director and more than half of 
the Board consists of Independent Directors. The 
composition of the Board is in conformity with Section 
149 and Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”), Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (Corporate Governance for Insurers) 
Regulations, 2024 (“IRDAI CG Regulations”) read 
with Master Circular on Corporate Governance for 
Insurers, 2024 dated May 22, 2024 as amended from 
time to time (“CG Master Circular”) and Regulation 
17 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations” / “LODR”). The roles of 
the Chairman and the MD & CEO are distinct and 
separate.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
34
The Composition of the Board of the Company during the year is as set out in the table below:
Name of Director
Nature of 
Directorship
Date of 
Appointment/ 
Reappointment
Date of 
Cessation
List of major offices held by them
Kamesh Goyal
(DIN: 01816985)
Chairman, Non-
Executive Director
December 7, 2016 -
n	 Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
n	 Valueattics Reinsurance Limited
n	 Go Digit Infoworks Services Private 
Limited
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan
(DIN: 05242795)
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director
June 30, 2024
-
n	 Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
n	 IIFL Finance Limited
n	 Anchorage Infrastructure Investments 
Holdings Limited
n	 Bangalore International Airport 
Limited
n	 Thomas Cook (India) Limited
n	 Quess Corp Limited
n	 Digitide Solutions Limited
Vandana Gupta
(DIN: 07790005)
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
December 14, 
2022
-
n	 Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
Christof Mascher
(DIN: 09083996)
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
July 20, 2022
-
n	 Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
Mahender Kumar
Garg
(DIN: 00081454)
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
June 30, 2024
-
n	 Valueattics Reinsurance Limited
n	 Rolesoft Mercantile Company Private 
Limited
Mukul Kant Gupta
(DIN: 08730748)
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
November 21, 
2024
-
n	 Go Digit Life Insurance Limited
Jasleen Kohli
(DIN: 07634112)
Managing 
Director and Chief 
Executive Officer
April 20, 2022
-
Nil
Chandran 
Ratnaswami
(DIN: 00109215)
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director
December 14, 
2017
June 30, 
2024
NA
Rajendra Beri
(DIN: 03177323)
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
December 14, 
2022
June 30, 
2024
NA
The brief profile of Directors is hosted on the website of the Company and can be viewed at https://www.godigit.
com/board-of-directors.
As on March 31, 2025 there are no Directors who have attained the age of 75 years or more and for whom approval 
of Members of the Company was required through special resolution in terms of Regulation 17 (1A) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
	
Appointment
During the year the following Directors have been appointed in the Company:
a.	
Mahender Kumar Garg (DIN: 00081454) was appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Director of the 
Company for the period starting from June 30, 2024 and till May 9, 2028, not liable to retire by rotation. The said 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
35
14
123
01
appointment was approved by the Members of 
the Company at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) held on August 14, 2024.
b.	
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan (DIN: 05242795) 
was appointed as Non-Executive Director with 
effect from June 30, 2024, liable to retire by 
rotation. The said appointment was approved by 
the Members of the Company at the AGM held 
on August 14, 2024.
c.	
Mukul Kant Gupta (DIN: 08730748) was 
appointed as the Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company for a period of 3 years 
with effect from November 21, 2024, not liable 
to retire by rotation. The said appointment was 
approved by the Members of the Company 
through a resolution passed through postal 
ballot on January 18, 2025.
A letter of appointment encompassing the terms and 
conditions of appointment, roles, duties and liabilities 
has been issued to the Independent Directors at the 
time of their appointment. The terms of appointment 
can be accessed on our website at www.godigit.com.
	
Resignation
Pursuant to the provisions of clause 2.4 (a) of CG 
Master Circular, the maximum age limit for Non-
Executive Directors of the Board, is capped at 75 years 
and after attaining the age of 75 years, no person 
should continue on the Board of an insurer. Provided 
that in cases where the Non-Executive Director had 
already attained the age of 75 years as on the date 
of issue of the CG Master Circular, such insurers were 
required to appoint new incumbent in place of such 
Non-Executive Director by June 30, 2024.
To meet the abovementioned regulatory requirement, 
Chandran Ratnaswami had resigned as the Non-
Executive Director of the Company w.e.f. June 30, 
2024 and Rajendra Beri had resigned as the Non-
Executive Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. 
June 30, 2024 i.e. before the expiry of his current term.
In terms of provisions of clause 7B of Para A of Part 
A of Schedule III to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Rajendra Beri had confirmed that he did not hold any 
directorships in other listed companies. He had further 
confirmed that there were no other material reasons 
for his resignation other than those mentioned in the 
resignation letter.
	
Directorships 
and 
Memberships/
Chairpersonships held by Directors in other 
companies
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions 
in other public companies as on March 31, 2025 have 
been made by the Directors.
The details of “Directorships held in other companies” and “Memberships/ Chairpersonships of committees in other 
companies” of Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2025 are as follows:
Name of Director
No. of other 
Directorships
Name and number of other listed 
Companies where he/she is a Director
Number of Committees 
of other Companies*
Of Indian 
Public Limited 
Companies
Of Other 
companies
Company
Category of 
Directorship
In which a 
member
In which a 
Chairperson
Kamesh Goyal 
(DIN:01816985)
3
-
-
-
-
-
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan 
(DIN: 05242795)
7
3
Quess Corp 
Limited
Non-Executive 
Director
1
-
Thomas 
Cook (India) 
Limited
Non-Executive 
Director
-
-
IIFL Finance 
Limited
Non-Executive 
Director
-
-
Vandana Gupta 
(DIN: 07790005)
1
-
-
-
-
-
Christof Mascher 
(DIN: 09083996)
1
-
-
-
-
-
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
36
Name of Director
No. of other 
Directorships
Name and number of other listed 
Companies where he/she is a Director
Number of Committees 
of other Companies*
Of Indian 
Public Limited 
Companies
Of Other 
companies
Company
Category of 
Directorship
In which a 
member
In which a 
Chairperson
Mahender Kumar Garg 
(DIN: 00081454)
1
-
-
-
1
1
Mukul Kant Gupta 
(DIN: 08730748)
1
-
-
-
1
1
Jasleen Kohli 
(DIN: 07634112)
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* For the purpose of determination of limit, Memberships/Chairpersonships in Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee of Indian public limited companies is only considered; number of Memberships includes Chairpersonships.
None of the Directors held directorship in more than seven (7) listed companies. Further, none of the Independent 
Directors of the Company served as an Independent Director in more than seven (7) listed companies. None of 
the Independent Directors serving as a Whole-Time Director/Managing Director in any listed entity, serves as an 
Independent Director of more than three (3) listed entities. None of the Directors held directorship in more than 
twenty (20) Indian companies or more than ten (10) public limited companies.
None of the Directors is a Member of more than ten (10) Committees and/or Chairman of more than five (5) 
Committees across all public limited companies excluding private limited companies, foreign companies, and Section 
8 Companies in which he/she is a Director. The number of directorships of each Director of the Company is within the 
limits prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills/ expertise/competence of the Board of Directors
List of core skills / expertise / competencies required by the Board for the efficient functioning of the Company in the 
present business environment and the skills/ expertise/competence actually available with the current Board are as 
follows:-
	
List of core skills / expertise / competencies required by Board:
Name of 
Director
Nature of 
Directorship
Qualification
Skills/Expertise/Competence of the Board of 
Directors
Kamesh Goyal
Chairman, 
Non-Executive 
Director
MBA, LLB, B.Sc, Associate
of the Insurance Institute
of India
Law and Governance, Business Management 
and Strategy, Insurance & Risk Management, 
Operations and Technology, Finance and 
Investment, and Health Insurance
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan
Non-Executive 
Director
Chartered 
Financial 
Analyst (USA), Chartered 
Accountant and B.Com
Finance and Investment, Insurance and Risk 
Management, Business Management and 
Strategy, Governance
Vandana Gupta
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
MBBS, MD (Pathology)
Law and Governance, Business Management 
and Strategy, Insurance & Risk Management, 
Finance and Investment, and Health Insurance
Christof Mascher Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Doctorate in Law, Master of 
Arts (M.A.) in Philosophy
Law and Governance, Business Management 
and Strategy, Insurance & Risk Management, 
Operations and Technology, Finance and 
Investment, and Health Insurance
Mahender 
Kumar
Garg
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Chartered 
Accountant, 
B.Com, Fellow of Insurance 
Institute of India
Finance and Investment, Business Management 
and Strategy, Insurance and Risk Management 
and Governance
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
37
14
123
01
Name of 
Director
Nature of 
Directorship
Qualification
Skills/Expertise/Competence of the Board of 
Directors
Mukul Kant 
Gupta
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
B. Com from Sydenham 
College 
of 
Commerce 
& 
Economics, 
Chartered 
Accountant from Institute 
of Chartered Accountant of 
India
Finance and Investment, Business Management 
and Strategy, Insurance and Risk Management 
and Governance
Jasleen Kohli
MD & CEO
Post Graduate Diploma in 
Business Management
Law and Governance, Business Management 
and Strategy, Insurance & Risk Management, 
Operations and Technology, Finance and 
Investment, and Health Insurance
	
Independent Directors
All the Independent Directors of the Company have 
been appointed as per the provisions of the Act. The 
Independent Directors have been appointed for a fixed 
tenure from their respective dates of appointment/
re-appointment. All the Independent Directors have 
submitted their declarations confirming that they meet 
the criteria of independence as mentioned in Section 
149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1) (b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and other Regulations 
as may be specified by the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”), the 
Independent Directors have confirmed that they are 
not aware of any circumstances or situation which 
exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could 
impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties 
and that they are independent of the management.
Further, the Board after taking these declarations/
disclosures on record and acknowledging the veracity 
of the same, concluded that the Independent Directors 
are persons of integrity and possess the relevant 
expertise and experience to qualify as Independent 
Directors of the Company and they uphold the 
highest standards of integrity and are Independent of 
the Management.
During the year under review, except as stated 
above none of the other Independent Director of the 
Company has resigned before the expiry of his or her 
term.
	
“Fit and Proper” Criteria
In accordance with the IRDAI CG Regulations read 
with CG Master Circular, Directors of insurers have 
to meet “Fit and Proper” criteria prescribed by IRDAI. 
Accordingly, all the Directors of the Company have 
submitted declaration confirming compliance with 
“Fit and Proper” criteria prescribed under the IRDAI 
CG Regulations read with CG Master Circular.
	
Separate Meeting of Independent Directors
As stipulated by the provisions of Section 149(8) read 
with Schedule IV of the Act, and Regulations 25(3) 
& 25(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Code 
of Independent Directors, a separate meeting of 
Independent Directors of the Company was held on 
March 17, 2025 wherein the Independent Directors 
evaluated the performance of the Non-independent 
Directors, the Board as a whole and performance of 
Chairperson of the Board after taking into account 
the views of the Executive Directors and Non-
executive Directors. The Independent Directors also 
assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Company’s Management 
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
	
Weblink for Familiarisation Programme for 
Independent Directors
The Company has in place a mechanism to familiarize 
its Independent Directors about the Company, its 
products, the industry and business structure of the 
Company. The Company also undertakes various 
initiatives to update the Independent Directors about 
the ongoing events and developments relating to 
the Company, significant changes in the regulatory 
environment and implications on the Industry/ 
Company.
To introduce new Directors to the Company’s business 
and operations, Company provides information 
covering aspects like values of the Company, 
business strengths, performance of the Company 
and its key performance indicators, brief profile of 
the Board of Directors, the composition of Board 
Committees, a brief profile of Senior Management, 
the latest annual report, codes and policies, and 
the remuneration payable to Directors. Additionally, 
the role, rights, responsibilities, duties, and liabilities 
of the Independent Directors are detailed in their 
Appointment Letter.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
38
Further, the Independent Directors are updated on 
a continuous basis on the significant changes in 
regulations applicable to the insurance companies in 
general, and the Company in particular by circulating, 
deliberating and discussing during various Board and 
Committee Meetings of the Board, the new regulations, 
circulars, notifications including amendments in 
existing regulations issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), IRDAI, Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Stock Exchanges etc.
Apart from aforesaid updates, presentations are 
regularly made at the meeting of the Board of 
Directors and other Committees constituted by the 
Board, where the Board Members interact with the 
Senior Management Personnel (“SMP”) and Key 
Managerial Personnel (“KMP”) on risk management, 
Company’s policies, compliances etc. The MD & CEO, 
KMPs and SMPs give a detailed quarterly presentation 
on review of operations, business performance and 
strategy, financial outlook, financial reports, peer 
comparison and overall industry scenario etc. of the 
Company.
The details of such familiarization programmes 
for Directors for the financial year 2024-25 may 
be referred to at https://www.godigit.com/content/
dam/godigit/general/investor-relations/governance/
familiarization-programme-of-gdgil-fy-2024-25.pdf
	
Attendance of Directors in Board Meeting and 
last AGM
During the year, the Board of Directors met eleven 
(11) times. The gap between any two meetings did 
not exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days. 
Generally, all these Board Meetings were held through 
video conferencing / other audio-visual mode and 
through physical mode as allowed under applicable 
law. The AGM of the Company was held on August 
14, 2024 in physical mode. The requisite quorum was 
present at all meetings.
The following table sets out the details of composition of the Board of Directors and attendance of Directors at the 
Board meetings and AGM:
Name of 
Director
Nature of 
Directorship
Designation 
In the Board
Date of Meeting
Date of 
AGM
April 
28, 
2024
May 
8, 
2024
May 
9, 
2024
May 
14, 
2024
May 
17, 
2024
May 
21, 
2024
June 
11, 
2024
June 
28, 
2024
July 
25, 
2024
October 
24, 
2024
January 
22, 
2025
August 
14, 
2024
Kamesh Goyal
Non-
Executive 
Director
Chairman
P
P
P
P
P
P
A
P
P
P
P
P
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan
Non-
Executive 
Director
Member
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
P
P
P
A
Vandana Gupta Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
A
Christof 
Mascher
Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
A
Mahender 
Kumar Garg
Independent 
Director
Member
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
P
P
P
P
Mukul Kant 
Gupta
Independent 
Director
Member
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
P
NA
Jasleen Kohli
MD & CEO
Member
A
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
Chandran 
Ratnaswami
Non-
Executive 
Director
Member
P
P
P
A
P
P
A
A
NA
NA
NA
NA
Rajendra Beri
Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
39
14
123
01
	
Relationship of Directors inter-se
None of the Directors are related to each other.
	
Number of shares and convertible instruments 
held by Directors of the Company
Details of the equity shares of the Company held by 
the Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2025 
is as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
No. of Equity 
Shares held
1.
Kamesh Goyal
-
2.
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan
-
3.
Vandana Gupta
-
4.
Christof Mascher
3,83,939
5.
Mahender Kumar Garg
-
6.
Mukul Kant Gupta
14,535
7.
Jasleen Kohli
1,50,000
As on March 31, 2025 none of the Directors of the 
Company held Non-Convertible Debentures of the 
Company.
3.	
Board Committees
The Board has constituted the following Committees 
of the Board in terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Act, IRDAI CG Regulations and CG Master Circular:
i.	
Audit Committee;
ii.	
Investment Committee;
iii.	
Risk Management Committee;
iv.	
Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal 
and Claims Monitoring Committee;
v.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
vi.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee;
vii.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee; and
viii.	 Share Allotment Committee;
In addition to the above, the Board of Directors may, 
from time to time, constitute Committees to delegate 
certain powers for various functions, in accordance 
with applicable laws.
IPO Committee (dissolved with effect from October 
24, 2024)- For the purpose of Initial Public Offering 
(“IPO”) of the Company, the Board had constituted 
IPO Committee to deal with the matters related to the 
IPO. Post listing of the equity shares of the Company 
on the recognized stock exchanges, the purpose of 
the IPO Committee was completed and therefore IPO 
Committee was dissolved with effect from October 
24, 2024.
	
Audit Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Audit Committee was constituted by a resolution 
of the Board at its meeting held on December 14, 
2017, and was last re-constituted by the Board at 
its meeting held on June 28, 2024. The scope and 
reference of the Audit Committee are in accordance 
with Section 177 of the Act, Clause 4.1 of the CG 
Master Circular, SEBI Listing Regulations and IRDAI 
CG Regulations. The terms of reference of the Audit 
Committee are as follows:
(a)	 Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process, examination of the financial statement, 
statement of cash flow, functioning of the 
internal audit department and the auditors’ 
report thereon and the disclosure of its financial 
information 
to 
ensure 
that 
the 
financial 
statement is correct, sufficient and credible. To 
set-up procedures and processes to address all 
concerns relating to adequacy of checks and 
control mechanisms;
(b)	 Oversight 
of 
procedures 
and 
processes 
established to attend to issues relating to 
maintenance of books of account, administration 
procedures, transactions and other matters 
having a bearing on the financial position of the 
insurer;
(c)	
Recommendation 
for 
appointment, 
re-
appointment and replacement, remuneration and 
terms of appointment and oversight of the work 
of auditors, including the internal auditor, cost 
auditor, concurrent auditor, statutory auditor, 
secretarial auditor, forensic auditor, investment 
risk management systems and process auditor 
of the Company and the fixation of audit fee;
(d)	 Approval of payments to statutory auditors for 
any other services rendered by the statutory 
auditors of the Company;
(e)	 Oversight on the overall management costs of 
the Company to adhere with the limits prescribed 
by the legislations, regulations, circulars and 
other statutes as may be applicable from time to 
time;
(f)	
Act as a Compliance Committee to discuss the 
level of compliance in the Company and any 
associated risks and to monitor and report to the 
Board on any significant breaches;
(g)	 Reviewing, with the management, the annual 
financial statements and auditor’s report thereon 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
40
before submission to the Board for approval, 
with particular reference to:
	
(i)	
Matters required to be included in the 
director’s responsibility statement to be 
included in the report in terms of clause (c) 
of sub-section 3 of section 134 of the Act;
	
(ii)	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
	
(iii)	 Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by the 
management of the Company;
	
(iv)	 Significant 
adjustments 
made 
in 
the 
financial statements arising out of audit 
findings;
	
(v)	 Compliance 
with 
listing 
and 
other 
legal requirements relating to financial 
statements;
	
(vi)	 Disclosure of any related party transactions; 
and
	
(vii)	 Qualifications / modified opinion(s) in the 
draft audit report.
(h)	 Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly, 
half-yearly and annual financial statements 
before submission to the Board for approval;
(i)	
Reviewing, 
with 
the 
management, 
the 
statement of uses/application of funds raised 
through an issue (public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds 
utilised for purposes other than those stated 
in the issue document/prospectus/notice and 
the report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public 
or rights issue or preferential issue or qualified 
institutional placement, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps 
in this matter;
(j)	
Reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
the 
auditor’s 
independence 
and 
performance, 
and 
effectiveness of audit process;
(k)	 Formulating 
a 
policy 
on 
related 
party 
transactions, which shall include materiality of 
related party transactions;
(l)	
Approval or any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the Company with related 
parties and omnibus approval for related party 
transactions proposed to be entered into by the 
Company subject to such conditions as may be 
prescribed;
	
Further in case of transactions, other than 
transactions referred to in Section 188, and 
where Audit Committee does not approve the 
transaction, it shall make its recommendations 
to the Board:
	
Provided also that in case any transaction 
involving any amount not exceeding one crore 
rupees is entered into by a Director or officer of 
the Company without obtaining the approval of 
the Audit Committee and it is not ratified by the 
Audit Committee within three months from the 
date of the transaction, such transaction shall 
be voidable at the option of the Audit Committee 
and if the transaction is with the related party 
to any director or is authorised by any other 
director, the director concerned shall indemnify 
the company against any loss incurred by it:
	
Provided also that the provisions of this clause 
shall not apply to a transaction, other than a 
transaction referred to in Section 188, between 
a holding company and its wholly owned 
subsidiary company
	
Explanation: 
The 
term 
“related 
party 
transactions” shall have the same meaning 
as provided in Clause 2(zc) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and/or the applicable Accounting 
Standards and/or the Companies Act, 2013.
(m)	 Review, at least on a quarterly basis, the details 
of related party transactions entered into by 
the Company pursuant to each of the omnibus 
approvals given;
(n)	 Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans 
and 
investments;
(o)	 Undertaking 
or 
supervising 
valuation 
of 
undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
(p)	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
(q)	 Reviewing, with the management, performance 
of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of 
the internal control systems;
(r)	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, if any, including the structure of the 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
41
14
123
01
internal audit department, staffing and seniority 
of the official heading the department, reporting 
structure, coverage and frequency of internal 
audit;
(s)	
Discussion 
with 
internal 
auditors 
of 
any 
significant findings and follow up thereon and 
to monitor the progress made in rectification of 
irregularities and changes in processes wherever 
deficiencies have come to notice;
(t)	
Reviewing 
the 
findings 
of 
any 
internal 
investigations by the internal auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control systems 
of a material nature and reporting the matter to 
the Board;
(u)	 Discussion with statutory auditors before the 
audit commences, about the nature and scope 
of audit as well as post-audit discussion to 
ascertain any area of concern;
(v)	 Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in the payment to the depositors, debenture 
holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment 
of declared dividends) and creditors;
(w)	 Recommending to the Board of Directors the 
appointment and removal of the external auditor, 
fixation of audit fees and approval for payment 
for any other services;
(x)	 Reviewing the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism;
(y)	 Approval of the appointment of the Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company (“CFO”) 
(i.e., the whole-time finance director or any 
other person heading the finance function or 
discharging that function) after assessing the 
qualifications, experience and background, etc., 
of the candidate;
(z)	 Carrying out any other functions as provided 
under the provisions of the Companies Act, the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and other applicable 
laws;
(aa)	To formulate, review and make recommendations 
to the Board to amend the Terms of Reference of 
Audit Committee from time to time;
(bb)	Establishing a vigil mechanism for directors and 
employees to report their genuine concerns or 
grievances;
(cc)	 Carrying out any other function as is mentioned 
in the terms of reference of the Audit Committee;
(dd)	Reviewing the utilization of loans and/or 
advances from/investment by Company in any 
subsidiaries exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% 
of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever 
is lower including existing loans / advances / 
investments existing as on the date of coming 
into force of this provision;
(ee)	 To consider and comment on rationale, cost- 
benefits and impact of schemes involving 
merger, demerger, amalgamation etc. on the 
Company and its shareholders and;
(ff)	 Carrying out any other functions as may be 
required / mandated and/or delegated by the 
Board as per the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations, uniform 
listing agreements, IRDAI Regulations and/or 
any other applicable laws or by any regulatory 
authority and performing such other functions 
as may be necessary or appropriate for the 
performance of its duties.
The Audit Committee shall mandatorily review the 
following information:
(a)	 Management’s discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations;
(b)	 Management letters/letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors of 
the Company;
(c)	
Internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses;
(d)	 The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor;
(e)	 Statement of deviations:
	
(i)	
quarterly 
statement 
of 
deviation(s) 
including report of monitoring agency, if 
applicable, submitted to stock exchange(s) 
in terms of Regulation 32(1) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations; and
	
(ii)	
annual statement of funds utilised for 
purposes other than those stated in the 
issue document/prospectus/notice in terms 
of Regulation 32(7) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations;
	
(f)	
To review the financial statements, in 
particular, the investments made by any 
unlisted subsidiary; and
(g)	 Such information as may be prescribed under 
the Companies Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
42
	
The recommendations of the Audit Committee 
on any matter relating to financial management 
including the audit report, shall be binding on the 
Board.
	
The Audit Committee shall have authority to 
investigate into any matter in relation to the 
items as set out above or referred to it by the 
Board and for this purpose shall have the power 
to seek information from any employees, obtain 
outside legal or other professional advice from 
external sources, have full access to information 
contained in the records of the Company and 
secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if it considers necessary.
	
Composition, Meeting and Attendance
The Audit Committee met five (5) times during the year. The details of the composition and attendance of the 
Members at the Audit Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of 
Member
Nature of 
Directorship
Designation 
in the 
Committee
Meeting dated
April 28, 
2024
June 11, 
2024
July 25, 
2024
October 
24, 2024
January 
22, 2025
Mahender 
Kumar Garg1
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Chairman
NA
NA
P
P
P
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan2
Non-Executive 
Director
Member
NA
NA
P
P
P
Vandana Gupta
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
P
P
Christof 
Mascher
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
P
P
Chandran 
Ratnaswami3
Non-Executive 
Director
Member
P
A
NA
NA
NA
Rajendra Beri4
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Chairman4
P
P
NA
NA
NA
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
1 Mahender Kumar Garg was appointed as the Member and Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from July 1, 2024
	
2 Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as Member of the Audit Committee with effect from July 1, 2024
	
3 Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Member of the Audit Committee with effect from June 30, 2024.
	
4 Rajendra Beri ceased to be the Chairperson and Member of the Audit Committee with effect from June 30, 2024.
All members are financially literate and bring expertise 
in the fields of finance, accounting, development and 
strategy. All the recommendations made by the Audit 
Committee during the year were accepted by the 
Board.
Mahender Kumar Garg, Chairman of the Committee, 
was present at the AGM of the Company held on 
August 14, 2025.
	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
was constituted by a resolution of the Board at its 
meeting held on December 14, 2017 and was last re-
constituted by the Board at its meeting held on June 
28, 2024. The scope and function of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee is in accordance with 
Section 178 of the Act, SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Clause 4.5 of the CG Master Circular and IRDAI CG 
Regulations. The terms of reference of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee are as follows:
(a)	 Formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a director and recommend to 
the Board a policy, relating to the remuneration 
of the Directors, KMP and other employees;
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
43
14
123
01
	
For every appointment of an independent director, 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
shall evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board and on the basis 
of such evaluation, prepare a description of the 
role and capabilities required of an independent 
director. The person recommended to the Board 
for appointment as an independent director 
shall have the capabilities identified in such 
description. For the purpose of identifying 
suitable candidate, the Committee may:
	
(i)	
Use the services of external agencies, if 
required;
	
(ii)	
Consider candidates from a wide range 
of backgrounds, having due regard to 
diversity; and
	
(iii)	 Consider the time commitment of the 
candidates.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
while formulating the above policy, should 
ensure that:
	
(i)	
the level and composition of remuneration 
be reasonable and sufficient to attract, 
retain and motivate directors of the quality 
required to run the Company successfully;
	
(ii)	
relationship of remuneration to performance 
is clear and meets appropriate performance 
benchmarks; and
	
(iii)	 remuneration to directors, key managerial 
personnel and senior management involves 
a balance between fixed and incentive pay 
reflecting short and long term performance 
objectives appropriate to the working of the 
Company and its goals.
	
(iv)	 Remuneration is adjusted for all types of 
risk;
	
(v)	 Remuneration outcomes are symmetric 
with risk outcomes;
	
(vi)	 Remuneration payouts are sensitive to the 
time horizon of the risk; and
	
(vii)	 the mix of cash, equity and other forms 
of remuneration are consistent with risk 
alignment.
(b)	 Formulation of criteria and specifying the 
manner for effective evaluation of performance 
of the Board its Committees, and individual 
directors to be carried out either by the Board, by 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee or by 
an independent external agency and review its 
implementation and compliance;
(c)	
Devising a policy on Board diversity;
(d)	 Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
directors of the Company and who may be 
appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the criteria laid down, and recommend to 
the Board their appointment and removal.;
(e)	 Analysing, monitoring and reviewing various 
human resource and compensation matters, 
including the compensation strategy;
(f)	
Determining the Company’s policy on specific 
remuneration packages for CEO, executive 
directors, 
non-executive 
director, 
key 
management person including pension rights 
and any compensation payment, in alignment 
with the applicable framework and determining 
remuneration packages of such directors;
(g)	 Recommending the remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to non-executive directors and the 
senior management personnel and other staff 
(as deemed necessary);
(h)	 Reviewing 
and 
approving 
compensation 
strategy from time to time in the context of the 
then current Indian market in accordance with 
applicable laws;
(i)	
Determining whether to extend or continue the 
term of appointment of the independent director, 
on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of independent directors;
(j)	
Perform such functions as are required to be 
performed by the compensation committee 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
(k)	 Scrutinize the declarations of intending applicants 
before the appointment/ reappointment/ election 
of directors by the shareholders at the General 
Meetings.
(l)	
Scrutinize the applications and details submitted 
by the aspirants for appointment as the Key 
Management Persons (KMPs). The Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
could 
also 
make independent/ discreet references, where 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
44
necessary, well in time to verify the accuracy of 
the information furnished by the applicant.
The Committee shall be responsible for the succession 
planning of the insurer including in its implementation 
in a smooth manner.
(m)	 Administering the Go Digit Employee Stock 
Option Plan (“ESOP 2018”), and any other such 
employee benefit schemes, as applicable, approved 
by the Board and shareholders of the Company in 
accordance with the terms of such scheme/plan 
including the following:
i.	
Determining the eligibility of employees to 
participate under the scheme/plan ;
ii.	
Determining 
the 
quantum 
of 
option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, to be granted 
under the Employee Benefit Schemes per 
employee and in aggregate;
iii.	
Date of grant;
iv.	
Determining the exercise price of the option/
stock appreciation right, as applicable, under the 
scheme/plan;
v.	
The 
conditions 
under 
which 
option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, may vest in 
employee and may lapse in case of termination 
of employment for misconduct;
vi.	
The exercise period within which the employee 
should exercise the option/stock appreciation 
right, as applicable, and that option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, would lapse on 
failure to exercise the option/stock appreciation 
right, as applicable, within the exercise period;
vii.	 The specified time period within which the 
employee shall exercise the vested option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, in the event of 
termination or resignation of an employee;
viii.	 The right of an employee to exercise all the 
option/stock appreciation right, as applicable, 
vested in him at one time or at various points of 
time within the exercise period;
ix.	
Re-pricing of the options/stock appreciation 
rights, as applicable, which are not exercised, 
whether or not they have been vested if option/
stock appreciation right, as applicable, rendered 
unattractive due to fall in the market price of the 
equity shares;
x.	
The grant, vest and exercise of option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, in case of 
employees who are on long leave;
xi.	
Allow 
exercise 
of 
unvested 
option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, on such terms 
and conditions as it may deem fit;
xii.	 The procedure for cashless exercise of option/
stock appreciation right, as applicable;
xiii.	 Forfeiture/ 
cancellation 
of 
option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, granted;
xiv.	 Formulating and implementing the procedure 
for making a fair and reasonable adjustment to 
the number of option/stock appreciation right, as 
applicable, and to the exercise price in case of 
corporate actions such as rights issues, bonus 
issues, merger, sale of division and others. 
In this regard following shall be taken into 
consideration:
	
•	
the number and the price of option/stock 
appreciation right, as applicable, shall be 
adjusted in a manner such that total value 
of the option to the employee remains the 
same after the corporate action;
	
•	
for this purpose, global best practices in this 
area including the procedures followed by 
the derivative markets in India and abroad 
may be considered; and the vesting period 
and the life of the option/stock appreciation 
right, as applicable, shall be left unaltered 
as far as possible to protect the rights of 
the employee who is granted such scheme/
plan.
(n)	 Construing and interpreting the ESOP 2018 
and any other employee benefit scheme, 
as applicable, approved by the Board and 
shareholders of the Company in accordance 
with the terms of such scheme/plan and any 
agreements defining the rights and obligations 
of the Company and eligible employees under 
ESOP 2018, and prescribing, amending and/or 
rescinding rules and regulations relating to the 
administration of the ESOP 2018
(o)	 Framing suitable policies, procedures and 
systems to ensure that there is no violation of 
securities laws, as amended from time to time, 
including:
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
45
14
123
01
	
a.	
the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015, as amended; and
	
b.	
the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices Relating to the Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003, as amended, by the 
Company and its employees, as applicable;
(p)	 Performing such other activities as may be 
delegated by the Board of Directors and/or 
are statutorily prescribed under any law to be 
attended to by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee; and
(q)	 The Committee shall also ensure that the 
proposed appointments/ re-appointments of 
Key Management Persons or Directors are in 
conformity with the Board approved policy on 
retirement/ superannuation.
(r)	
The 
Committee 
shall 
ensure 
that 
the 
remuneration packages of the Key Management 
Persons of the Company are as per the 
Remuneration Policy approved by the Board;
(s)	
To periodically review the Remuneration policy 
at least once every year; and
(t)	
Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Companies Act, IRDAI Regulations 
and SEBI Listing Regulations or other applicable 
laws or by any other regulatory authority.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee met six (6) times during the year. The composition and attendance of 
the Members at the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of 
Directorship
Designation 
in the 
Committee
Meeting dated
April 28, 
2024
June 11, 
2024
June 28, 
2024
July 25, 
2024
October 
24, 2024
January 
22, 2025
Christof Mascher5
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Chairman
P
P
P
P
P
P
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive 
Director
Member
P
A
P
P
P
P
Vandana Gupta
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
P
P
P
Mahender Kumar 
Garg6
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Member
NA
NA
NA
P
P
P
Rajendra Beri7
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Member
P
P
P
NA
NA
NA
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
5 Christof Mascher was appointed as Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
6 Mahender Kumar Garg was appointed as Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
7 Rajendra Beri ceased to be the Chairman and Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee with effect from June 30, 
2024.
Christof Mascher, Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration Committee could not attend the Annual General 
Meeting held on August 14, 2025 and had authorized Kamesh Goyal, Member of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee to answer the queries of the Members.
	
Performance Evaluation
The Board has carried out an annual performance evaluation of its own performance, and that of its Committees, 
and individual Directors in the financial year 2024-25 in the following manner:
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
46
•	
Evaluation sheets were filled by each of the 
Directors with regards to the evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its Committees and 
individual 
Directors 
(including 
Independent 
Director and Chairman and except for the 
Director being evaluated) for the year;
•	
The feedback received from all the Directors 
was then compiled, based on which a report of 
performance evaluation was prepared by the 
Chairman;
•	
The report on performance evaluation was then 
noted in the meeting of the Board of Directors;
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
reviewed the implementation and compliance of the 
evaluation process followed by the Company.
	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee was 
constituted by a resolution of the Board at its meeting 
held on August 8, 2022 and was last re-constituted 
by the Board at its meeting held on October 24, 
2024. The scope and function of the Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee is in accordance with Section 
178 of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. The 
terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee are as follows:
(a)	 Redressal of all security holders’ and investors’ 
grievances such as complaints related to 
transfer of shares, including non-receipt of share 
certificates and review of cases for refusal of 
transfer/transmission of shares and debentures, 
de-materialization and re-materialization of 
shares, non-receipt of balance sheet, non-receipt 
of declared dividends, non-receipt of annual 
reports, etc., assisting with quarterly reporting 
of such complaints and formulating procedures 
in line with statutory guidelines to ensure speedy 
disposal of various requests received from 
shareholders;
(b)	 Reviewing of measures taken for effective 
exercise of voting rights by shareholders;
(c)	
Investigating complaints relating to allotment of 
shares, approval of transfer or transmission of 
shares, debentures or any other securities;
(d)	 Giving effect to all transfer/transmission of shares 
and debentures, de-materialization of shares 
and re-materialization of shares, split and issue 
of duplicate/consolidated share certificates, 
compliance with all the requirements related to 
shares, debentures and other securities from 
time to time;
(e)	 Reviewing the measures and initiatives taken 
by the Company for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt 
of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory 
notices by the shareholders of the Company;
(f)	
Reviewing 
the 
adherence 
to 
the 
service 
standards adopted by the Company with respect 
to various services rendered by the Registrar 
and Transfer Agent of the Company and to 
recommend measures for overall improvement 
in the quality of investor services;
(g)	 Carrying out such other functions as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time or 
specified/provided under the Companies Act 
or SEBI Listing Regulations, or by any other 
regulatory authority;
(h)	 To approve allotment of shares, debentures 
or any other securities as per the authority 
conferred / to be conferred to the Committee by 
the Board of Directors from time to time;
(i)	
To approve requests for transfer, transposition, 
deletion, consolidation, sub-division, change of 
name, de-materialization, re-materialization etc. 
of shares, debentures and other securities;
(j)	
To monitor and expedite the status and process 
of de-materialization and re-materialization of 
shares, debentures and other securities of the 
Company; and
Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Act, IRDAI Regulations and SEBI Listing 
Regulations or other applicable laws or by any other 
regulatory authority.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
47
14
123
01
	
Meetings and Attendance
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met three (3) times during the year. The composition and attendance of 
the Members at the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of Directorship
Designation in 
the Committee
Meeting dated
July 
25, 2024
October 
24, 2024
January 
22, 2025
Vandana Gupta8
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
Chairperson
P
P
P
Kamesh Goyal9
Non-Executive Director
Member
P
P
P
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan10
Non-Executive Director
Member
P
P
P
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer
Member
P
P
P
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
8 Vandana Gupta was appointed as the Chairperson of the Committee with effect from October 24, 2024.
	
9 Kamesh Goyal ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee with effect from October 24, 2024.
	
10 Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Member of the Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
Registrar 
and 
Share 
Transfer 
Agent 
Information:
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly known 
as Link Intime India Private Limited) is the Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent both for physical as well as 
electronic mode for securities.
	
Compliance Officer
Tejas 
Saraf 
is 
the 
Company 
Secretary 
and 
Compliance Officer of the Company in accordance 
with the requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Rasika Kuber is the Chief Compliance Officer of the 
Company in accordance with the requirements of 
IRDAI Regulations.
	
Details of Shareholder’s complaints
Sr No. Particulars
Number
1.
Number of shareholders’ 
complaints pending at the 
beginning of the financial year
0
2.
Number of shareholders’ 
complaints received and solved 
during the financial year
116*
3.
Number of complaints not 
solved to the satisfaction of 
shareholders
0
4.
Number of pending complaints
0
	
* The Company listed its equity shares on recognized stock 
exchanges during the year. The Shareholder complaints 
mentioned above mostly comprises of the grievance 
reported by the applicants related to refund of IPO 
application amount and allocation of shares.
	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
was constituted by a resolution of the Board at 
their meeting held on August 8, 2022 and was last 
re-constituted by the Board at their meeting held 
on October 24, 2024.The scope and functions of the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee are in 
accordance with Section 135 of the Act, Clause 4.6 
of the CG Master Circular and IRDAI CG Regulations. 
The terms of reference of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee are as follows:
(a)	 To formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
corporate social responsibility policy stipulating, 
amongst others, the guiding principles for 
selection, implementation and monitoring the 
activities as well as formulation of the annual 
action plan which shall indicate the activities to 
be undertaken by the Company as specified in 
Schedule VII of the Companies Act and the rules 
made thereunder and make any revisions therein 
as and when decided by the Board;
(b)	 Recommending the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred, amount to be at least 2% of the 
average net profit of the Company in the three 
immediately preceding financial years or where 
the Company has not completed the period of 
three financial years since its incorporation, 
during such immediately preceding financial 
years;
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
48
(c)	
To identify corporate social responsibility policy 
partners and corporate social responsibility 
policy programmes;
(d)	 To review and recommend the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred for the corporate social 
responsibility activities and the distribution of the 
same to various corporate social responsibility 
programmes undertaken by the Company;
(e)	 To delegate responsibilities to the corporate 
social responsibility team and supervise proper 
execution of all delegated responsibilities;
(f)	
To review and monitor the implementation of 
corporate social responsibility programmes 
and issuing necessary directions as required for 
proper implementation and timely completion of 
corporate social responsibility programmes;
(g)	 To perform such other duties and functions as 
the Board may require the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee to undertake to 
promote the corporate social responsibility 
activities of the Company and exercise such other 
powers as may be conferred upon the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee in terms of the 
provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act;
(h)	 To take note of the compliances made by 
implementing agency (if any) appointed for the 
corporate social responsibility of the Company;
(i)	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
shall formulate and recommend to the Board, an 
annual action plan in pursuance of its corporate 
social responsibility policy, which shall include 
the following:
	
(i)	
the list of corporate social responsibility 
projects or programmes that are approved 
to be undertaken in areas or subjects 
specified in Schedule VII of the Companies 
Act;
	
(ii)	
the manner of execution of such projects 
or programmes as specified in the rules 
notified under the Companies Act;
	
(iii)	 the modalities of utilisation of funds and 
implementation schedules for the projects 
or programmes;
	
(iv)	 monitoring and reporting mechanism for 
the projects or programmes; and
	
(v)	 details of need and impact assessment, 
if any, for the projects undertaken by the 
Company; 
(j)	
Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Companies Act, IRDAI Regulations 
and SEBI Listing Regulations or other applicable 
laws or by any other regulatory authority
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met once (1) during the year. The composition and attendance of the 
Members at the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of Directorship
Designation in the 
Committee
Meeting dated
June 11, 2024
Vandana Gupta11
Non-Executive Independent Director
Chairperson
P
Kamesh Goyal12
Non-Executive Director
Member
A
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan13
Non-Executive Director
Member
NA
Christof Mascher
Non-Executive Independent Director
Member
P
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer
Member
P
Chandran Ratnaswami14
Non-Executive Director
Member
A
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
11 Vandana Gupta was appointed as the Chairperson of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from October 
24, 2024.
	
12 Kamesh Goyal ceased to be the Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from October 24, 2024.
	
13 Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from 
July 1, 2024.
	
14 Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from June 30, 
2024.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
49
14
123
01
	
Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal 
and Claims Monitoring Committee (formerly 
Policyholders’ Protection Committee)
	
Terms of Reference
The Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal 
and Claims Monitoring Committee was constituted 
by a resolution of the Board at their meeting 
held on December 14, 2017 and was renamed 
from 
“Policyholders’ 
Protection 
Committee” 
to 
“Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and 
Claims Monitoring Committee” pursuant to the 
IRDAI CG Regulations, by our Board at their meeting 
held on April 28, 2024 and last re-constituted 
on June 28, 2024 . The scope and function of the 
Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and 
Claims Monitoring Committee is in accordance with 
Clause 4.4 of the of the CG Master Circularand 
IRDAI CG Regulations .The terms of reference of the 
Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and 
Claims Monitoring Committee are as follows:
(i)	
To establish suitable systems and processes 
towards 
protection 
of 
the 
interests 
of 
policyholders, ensure measures towards creation 
of insurance awareness and empowering 
policyholders, 
and 
efficient 
and 
effective 
grievance redressal mechanism and monitoring 
of claims settlement processes;
(ii)	
To put in place systems to ensure that 
policyholders 
have 
access 
to 
redressal 
mechanisms and shall establish policies and 
procedures for the creation of a dedicated unit 
to deal with customer complaints and resolve 
disputes expeditiously
(iii)	 To recommend to the Board, for its approval, a 
policy on customer education and ensure proper 
implementation of the same;
(iv)	 To adopt standard operating procedures to 
treat the customer fairly including time-frames 
for policy and claims servicing parameters and 
monitoring implementation thereof;
(v)	 Appointment of a Grievance Redressal Officer 
who shall be responsible for grievance redressal.
(vi)	 Putting 
in 
place 
proper 
procedures 
and 
effective mechanism to address complaints and 
grievances of policyholders including mis-selling 
by intermediaries;
(vii)	 Put in place a framework for review of awards 
given by Insurance Ombudsman/Consumer 
Forums. Analyze the root cause of customer 
complaints, identify market conduct issues and 
advise the management appropriately about 
rectifying systemic issues, if any;
(viii)	Review 
all 
awards 
given 
by 
Insurance 
Ombudsman/Consumer 
Forums 
remaining 
unimplemented for more than thirty (30) days 
with reasons thereof and report the same to 
the Board for initiating remedial action, where 
necessary;
(ix)	 Review measures and take steps to reduce 
customer complaints at periodic intervals;
(x)	 Ensure 
compliance 
with 
the 
statutory 
requirements as laid down in the regulatory 
framework;
(xi)	 Ensure adequacy of disclosure of “material 
information” to the policyholders as prescribed 
by the Authority both at point of sale and at 
periodic intervals;
(xii)	 Provide details of grievances at periodic intervals 
in formats prescribed by the Authority;
(xiii)	Ensure that details of insurance ombudsmen are 
provided to the policyholders;
(xiv)	Review of Claims Report, including status of 
Outstanding Claims with ageing of outstanding 
claim;
(xv)	 Reviewing repudiated claims with analysis of 
reasons;
(xvi)	Reviewing status of settlement of other customer 
benefit payouts;
(xvii) Review of unclaimed amounts of Policyholders, 
as and when required under the Circulars and 
guidelines issued by the Authority; and
(xviii) Approve relocation and closure of offices as per 
the IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests, 
Operations and Allied Matters of Insurers) 
Regulations, 2024
(xix)	Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Act, IRDAI Regulations and SEBI 
Listing Regulations or other applicable laws or 
by any other regulatory authority.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
50
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and Claims Monitoring Committee (formerly Policyholders’ Protection 
Committee) met four (4) times during the year. The composition and attendance of the Members at the Committee 
Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of Directorship
Designation in 
the Committee
Meetings dated
June 
11, 2024
July 
25, 2024
October 
24, 2024
January 
22, 2025
Christof Mascher15
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Chairman
P
P
P
P
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive Director
Member
A
P
P
P
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan16
Non-Executive Director
Member
NA
P
P
P
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
Member
P
P
P
P
Chandran 
Ratnaswami17
Non-Executive Director
Member
A
NA
NA
NA
Rajendra Beri18
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Invitee
P
NA
NA
NA
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
15Christof Mascher was designated as Chairman of the Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and Claims Monitoring 
Committee with effect from April 28, 2024.
	
16Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Member of the Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and Claims 
Monitoring Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
17Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Chairman and Member of the Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and Claims 
Monitoring Committee with effect from April 28, 2024 and June 30, 2024 respectively.
	
18Rajendra Beri ceased to be the Invitee of the Policyholder Protection, Grievance Redressal and Claims Monitoring Committee with 
effect from June 30, 2024.
	
Risk Management Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Risk Management Committee was constituted 
by a resolution of the Board at their meeting held on 
December 14, 2017 and was last re-constituted by 
the Board at their meeting held on June 28, 2024. 
The scope and functions of the Risk Management 
Committee are in accordance with SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Clause 4.3 of the CG Master Circular 
and IRDAI CG Regulations. The terms of reference of 
the Risk Management Committee are as follows:
(a)	 To establish an effective Risk Management 
framework and recommend to the Board the 
Risk Management policy and processes for the 
organization;
(b)	 To periodically review the risk management 
policy at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity;
(c)	
To formulate a detailed risk management 
policy covering risk across functions and plan 
integration through training and awareness 
programmes;
(d)	 The policy shall inter alia include:
	
1.	
A framework for identification of internal 
and external risks specifically faced by the 
listed entity, in particular including financial, 
operational, 
sectoral, 
sustainability 
(particularly, 
environment, 
social 
and 
governance related risks), information, 
cyber security risks or any other risk as may 
be determined by the Committee;
	
2.	
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control 
of identified risks;
	
3.	
Business continuity plan.
(e)	 To approve the process for risk identification and 
mitigation;
(f)	
To decide on risk tolerance and appetite levels, 
and assess the cost and benefits associated 
with risk exposure recognizing contingent risks, 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
51
14
123
01
inherent and residual risks including for cyber 
security;
(g)	 Review the Company’s risk-reward performance 
to align with overall policy objectives.
(h)	 Discuss and consider best practices in risk 
management in the market and advise the 
respective functions
(i)	
Assist the Board in effective operation of the risk 
management system by performing specialized 
analyses and quality reviews
(j)	
To monitor the Company’s compliance with the 
risk structure. Assess whether current exposure 
to the risks it faces is acceptable and that there 
is an effective remediation of non-compliance on 
an on-going basis;
(k)	 Maintain an aggregated view on the risk profile 
of the Company for all categories of risk including 
insurance risk, market risk, credit risk, liquidity 
risk, operational risk, compliance risk, legal risk, 
reputation risk, etc
(l)	
Advise the Board with regard to risk management 
decisions in relation to strategic and operational 
matters such as corporate strategy, mergers and 
acquisitions and related matters.
(m)	 Report to the Board, details on the risk exposures 
and the actions taken to manage the exposures; 
review, monitor and challenge where necessary, 
risks undertaken by the Company
(n)	 To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
(o)	 To 
ensure 
that 
appropriate 
methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor 
and evaluate risks associated with the business 
of the Company;
(p)	 To approve major decisions affecting the 
risk profile or exposure and give appropriate 
directions;
(q)	 To consider the effectiveness of decision making 
process in crisis and emergency situations;
(r)	
To balance risks and opportunities;
(s)	
To generally, assist the Board in the execution of 
its responsibility for the governance of risk;
(t)	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
(u)	 To consider the appointment, removal and terms 
of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) 
which shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee;
(v)	 The Risk Management Committee shall have 
powers to seek information from any employee, 
obtain outside legal or other professional advice 
and secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if it considers necessary;
(w)	 The 
Risk 
Management 
Committee 
shall 
coordinate its activities with other committees, 
in instances where there is any overlap with 
activities of such committees, as per the 
framework laid down by the Board of Directors;
(x)	 To attend to such other matters and functions 
as may be prescribed by the Board from time to 
time; and
(y)	 Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Companies Act, IRDAI Regulations 
and SEBI Listing Regulations or other applicable 
laws or by any other regulatory authority.
(z)	 To review solvency position of the Company on a 
regular basis
(aa)	To formulate fraud monitoring policy and 
framework for the approval of the Board, 
monitor implementation of the policy and review 
compliance with the guidelines on Insurance 
Fraud Monitoring Framework, issued by IRDAI
(bb)	To review and amend, if necessary, outsourcing 
policy and to review the performance of the third 
party service providers
(cc)	 Formulating and implementing Asset Liability 
Management strategies for the Company;
(dd)	Formulating and implementing optimal ALM 
strategies and meeting risk-reward objectives at 
both product and enterprise level;
(ee)	 Ensuring that liabilities are backed by appropriate 
assets and manage mismatches between assets 
and liabilities to ensure they remain within 
acceptable monitored tolerances for liquidity, 
solvency and the risk profile of the entity;
(ff)	 Revising ALM strategies where required;
(gg)	Reviewing, approving and monitoring systems, 
controls and reporting used to manage balance 
sheet risks including any mitigation strategies;
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
52
(hh)	Regular review and monitoring of mismatch 
between assets and liabilities and the acceptable 
tolerance limits for mismatch, if any;
(ii)	
Ensuring that management and valuation of 
all assets and liabilities comply with standards, 
prevailing legislation and internal and external 
reporting requirements;
(jj)	
Submitting the ALM information before the 
Board at periodic intervals. Annual review of 
strategic asset allocation;
(kk)	 Reviewing key methodologies and assumptions 
including actuarial assumptions, used to value 
assets and liabilities;
(ll)	
Managing capital requirements at the company 
level using the regulatory solvency requirements; 
and
(mm)  Reviewing, 
approving 
and 
monitoring 
capital plans and related decisions over 
capital transactions (e.g. dividend payments, 
acquisitions, disposals, etc).
(nn)	To ensure the following for Key Managerial 
Person and Senior Management Person of the 
Company:
	
(i)	
Remuneration is adjusted for all types of 
risk;
	
(ii)	
Remuneration outcomes are symmetric 
with risk outcomes;
	
(iii)	 Remuneration payouts are sensitive to the 
time horizon of the risk; and
	
(iv)	 the mix of cash, equity and other forms 
of remuneration are consistent with risk 
alignment.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
The Risk Management Committee met four (4) times during the year. The composition and attendance of the 
members at the Risk Management Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of Directorship
Designation in 
the Committee
Meetings dated
June 
11, 2024
July 
25, 2024
October 
24, 2024
January 
22, 2025
Christof Mascher19
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Chairman
P
P
P
P
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive Director
Member
A
P
P
P
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan20
Non-Executive Director
Member
NA
P
P
P
Mahender Kumar 
Garg21
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Member
NA
P
P
P
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
Member
P
P
P
P
Ravi Khetan22
Chief Financial Officer
Member
NA
P
P
P
Nikhil Kamdar23
Appointed Actuary
Member
NA
P
P
P
Rajeev Singh24
Chief Technical and Risk 
Officer
Member
NA
P
P
P
Chandran 
Ratnaswami25
Non-Executive Director
Chairman
A
NA
NA
NA
Rajendra Beri26
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Member
P
NA
NA
NA
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
19Christof Mascher appointed as the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee with effect from June 11, 2024.
 	
20Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Member of the Risk Management Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
21Mahender Kumar Garg was appointed as the Member of the Risk Management Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
22Ravi Khetan was appointed as the Member of the Risk Management Committee with effect from June 11, 2024.
	
23Nikhil Kamdar was appointed as the Member of the Risk Management Committee with effect from June 11, 2024.
	
24Rajeev Singh was appointed as the Member of the Risk Management Committee with effect from June 11, 2024.
	
25Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Chairman with effect from June 11, 2024 and Member of the Risk Management 
Committee with effect from June 30, 2024.
	
26Rajendra Beri ceased to be the Member of the Risk Management Committee with effect from June 30, 2024.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
53
14
123
01
	
Risk Management Framework
The objective of the risk management framework of 
the Company is to clearly define, identify, measure 
and mitigate various risks to which the Company is 
exposed to.
The risk management framework of the Company 
consists of the Board of Directors, Risk Management 
Committee of the Board, the Chief Technical & 
Risk Officer and the Risk Management Committee 
(Management) comprising of respective functional 
heads, who are the owners of risks emanating from 
their respective functions and the Internal Auditor. 
The Chief Technical & Risk Officer and functional 
heads are responsible for periodically reviewing the 
risk management process to ensure that they are 
aligned to the risk management objectives of the 
Company.
An annual review of all departments and their 
risks was conducted wherein the key risks were 
highlighted by each functional Head, which were 
further evaluated by Risk Management Committee 
(Management) in detail and then were classified 
into Low, Medium and High risk categories and the 
frequency of the review is also agreed upon.
The critical risks to which the Company is exposed 
to along with their mitigation are identified and 
monitored and are presented to the Risk Management 
Committee on quarterly basis.
The key risks identified by the Company along with 
their mitigation plans are as under.
1.	
ALM Risk is the risk of negative impact on the 
entity’s net asset value and the risk of entity’s 
inability to meet financial obligations when they 
fall due. The risk is managed by ensuring that 
there are adequate assets, returns and liquidity 
to cover potential liability that arises in the future 
as per the corresponding period.
2.	
Liquidity Risk (Investment Risk) is monitored on 
a regular basis to ensure sufficient cash flows 
are maintained to meet claims and operating 
expenses.
3.	
Reinsurance Risk (Credit Risk) is a risk of default 
of reinsurer (failure to perform their obligation) 
in the event of claim for reinsurance ceded. This 
risk is managed by ensuring minimum credit 
rating of the reinsurer while placement and its 
regular monitoring.
4.	
Operational Risks are risks related to operational 
execution and include, among others, systems 
risk, fraud risk, legal risk, compliance risk, 
process risk and outsourcing risk. These are 
mitigated by implementing effective internal 
control framework, through strong policy and 
process, periodical reviews and internal audit.
5.	
Reputational Risk emanating from negative 
news in media (including social media) may 
be detrimental to the future business of the 
Company. These are mitigated by identifying 
negative publicity on a continuous basis. To 
address negative publicity, all possible measures 
including media and legal recourse are resorted 
to, which differ on a case to case basis.
6.	
Business Continuity Risks include traditional 
emergencies like fires, floods, earthquakes 
and tornados as well as risks from physical 
and cyber terrorism, cybercrime, computer and 
telecommunications equipment failures, theft, 
employee sabotage, lockdown situation (like 
pandemics and lockdown due to pandemics) 
etc. The Company has an existing Business 
Continuity Plan which is periodically reviewed 
and updated by Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO) and Head IT. During the unprecedented 
time of lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, it 
assisted the Company in continued operations 
and service of customer without significant 
delays or drop in quality of service.
	
Investment Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Investment Committee was constituted by a 
resolution of the Board at their meeting held on 
December 14, 2017 and was last re-constituted by 
the Board at their meeting held on July 25, 2024. The 
scope and function of the Investment Committee is in 
accordance with Clause 4.2 of the CG Master Circular 
and IRDAI CG Regulations. The terms of reference of 
the Investment Committee are as follows:
a)	
To recommend investment policy to the Board 
and lay down operational framework for 
investment operations;
b)	
To periodically review Investment policy based 
on performance of investments and evaluation 
of dynamic market condition and place it before 
the Board;
c)	
To implement the Board approved Investment 
Policy;
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
54
d)	
To ensure adequate return on funds consistent 
with the protection, safety and liquidity;
e)	
To formulate an effective reporting system to 
ensure compliance with policy set out by it apart 
from Internal / Concurrent Audit Mechanisms 
for a sustained and ongoing monitoring of 
investment operations;
f)	
To review investment operations and submit 
report to the Board on performance of investment 
portfolio with regard to its safety and soundness 
on quarterly basis;
g)	
To review their investment decisions and ensure 
that support by the internal due diligence process 
is an input in making appropriate investment 
decisions;
h)	
Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Companies Act, IRDAI Regulations 
and SEBI Listing Regulations or other applicable 
laws or by any other regulatory authority.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
The Investment Committee met four (4) times during the year. The composition and attendance of the Members at 
the Investment Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of Directorship
Designation in 
the Committee
Meetings dated
June 
11, 2024
July 
25, 2024
October 
24, 2024
 January 
22, 2025
Gopalakrishnan 
Soundarajan27
Non-Executive Director
Chairman
NA
P
P
P
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive Chairman
Member
A
P
P
P
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
Member
P
P
P
P
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Member
P
P
P
P
Parimal Heda
Chief Investment Officer
Member
P
P
P
P
Nikhil Kamdar
Appointed Actuary
Member
P
P
P
P
Rajeev Singh
Chief Technical and Risk 
Officer
Member
P
P
P
P
Chandran Ratnaswami28 Non-Executive Director
Member
A
NA
NA
NA
Christof Mascher29
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Member
P
P
NA
NA
	
P- Present A-Absent NA- Not Applicable
	
27Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Chairman of the Investment Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
28 Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Member of the Investment Committee with effect from June 30, 2024.
	
29 Christof Mascher ceased to be the Member of the Investment Committee with effect from July 25, 2024.
	
Share Allotment Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The Share Allotment Committee was constituted 
by a resolution of the Board at its meeting held on 
December 17, 2019 and was last re-constituted by 
the Board at its meeting held on October 24, 2024.The 
terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:
i.	
to approve allotment of shares or other securities 
of the Company;
ii.	
to issue new / duplicate share certificate;
iii.	
to issue letter of allotment of shares or other 
securities, if required;
iv.	
to approve transfer / transmission of shares or 
other securities of the Company;
v.	
to carry out any other function as may be decided 
by the Board;
vi.	
Such terms of reference as may be prescribed 
under the Companies Act, IRDAI Regulations, 
SEBI Listing Regulations or any other applicable 
laws or by any other regulatory authority.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
55
14
123
01
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
The Share Allotment Committee met once (1) during the year. The composition and attendance of the Members at 
the Share Allotment Committee Meetings are given below:
Name of Member
Nature of Directorship
Designation In the 
Committee
Meeting dated
October 24, 2024
Christof Mascher30
Non-Executive Independent Director
Chairman
P
Kamesh Goyal31
Non-Executive Director
Member
P
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan32
Non-Executive Director
Member
P
Jasleen Kohli
MD & CEO
Member
P
Chandran Ratnaswami33
Non-Executive Director
Member
NA
	
30Christof Mascher was appointed as the Chairman of the Share Allotment Committee with effect from October 24, 2024
	
31Kamesh Goyal ceased to be the Chairman of the Share Allotment Committee with effect from October 24, 2024.
	
32Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan was appointed as the Chairman of the Share Allotment Committee with effect from July 1, 2024.
	
33Chandran Ratnaswami ceased to be the Member of the Share Allotment Committee with effect from June 30, 2024.
In case of business exigencies or urgency of matters, resolutions are passed by circulation.
4.	
Particulars of senior management including the changes therein since the close of the previous 
financial year
As at March 31, 2025, the following officials were designated as Senior Management:
Sr. No. Name
Designation
1.
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
2.
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
3.
Nikhil Kamdar
Appointed Actuary
4.
Parimal Heda
Chief Investment Officer
5.
Rajeev Singh
Chief Technical and Risk Officer
6.
Rasika Kuber
Chief Compliance Officer
7.
Tejas Saraf
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
8.
Adarsh Agarwal
Chief Actuary and Product Officer - Corporate Business
9.
Easwara Narayanan Muthuswamy
Chief Operating Officer
10.
Vivek Chaturvedi
Chief Marketing Officer and Head of Direct Sales, Health, & 
Travel Business
11.
Gangadharayya Jadagerimath
Head of Technology
12.
Amrit Arora
Chief Human Resource Officer
13.
Ganesan Ramesh
Internal Auditor
14.
Atul Mehta
Country Head – Retail Geographies & Key Partnerships
During the year under review, the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on July 25, 2024 had 
changed the designation of Adarsh Agarwal from “Chief Distribution Officer – Corporate Business” to “Chief Actuary 
and Product Officer” owing to changes in organisation structure.
Further, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 22, 2025 had designated Atul Mehta as the “Country 
Head – Retail Geographies & Key Partnerships” and included him in the list of Senior Managerial Personnel in terms 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
56
5.	
Remuneration to Director
	
Executive Director-Managing Director & CEO
	
Jasleen Kohli
Pursuant to resolutions dated June 11, 2024 and 
August 14, 2024 passed by the Board and the 
Members, respectively and, approval letters dated 
December 19, 2024 and March 18, 2025 issued by 
the IRDAI, set forth below are the remuneration and 
other benefits of Jasleen Kohli:
Fixed Salary
₹ 3,32,12,427/-
Perquisites
Standard 
perquisites 
of 
house rent allowance, leave 
travel allowance, education 
allowance, life insurance cover, 
group medical policy, personal 
accident 
cover 
and 
other 
benefits as per the rules of our 
Company.
Jasleen Kohli was paid ₹ 411.26 lakhs in her capacity 
as a Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer for 
the Financial Year 2025. This includes ₹ 84.56 lakhs 
towards payment of variable pay which was accrued 
in the Financial Year 2023-24, excludes estimated 
value of contribution to gratuity fund.
This remuneration payment is in compliance with 
IRDAI approval letters dated December 19, 2024 and 
March 18, 2025.  Further, the variable pay for financial 
year 2024-25 will be paid in financial year 2025-26, 
subject to the approval of the Board of Directors 
based on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee.
	
Remuneration disclosures as required under 
the CG Master Circular
The details of remuneration of MD & CEO of the 
Company as required under CG Master Circular are 
disclosed in note 11 read with Annexure I of the 
financial statements.
	
Notice period
Three months prior written notice to the Company.
	
Severance fees
There is no separate provision for payment of 
severance fees.
	
ESOP
During the year, MD & CEO has been granted 21852 
stock options under Go Digit Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2018. The options would vest over four (4) years 
in proportion of 50%-40%-10%, starting from second 
year from the date of grant.
	
Payments and benefits to Non – Executive Directors and Independent Directors:
Pursuant to a Board resolution dated February 4, 2020, an Independent Director is entitled to receive sitting fees of 
₹ 1,00,000 per meeting for attending meetings of the Board and ₹ 50,000 per meeting for attending meetings of the 
committees. The Board had revised the sitting fees payable to Independent Director for attending the meeting of the 
committee to ₹ 1,00,000 per committee meeting with effect from July 25, 2024. Details of the remuneration paid to 
the Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors of our Company in the financial year 2024-25 are set forth 
below.
S. No.
Name of Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors
Sitting Fees 
(in ₹ lakhs)
Commission
(in ₹ lakhs)
1.
Kamesh Goyal
Nil
Nil
2.
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan
Nil
Nil
3.
Vandana Gupta
23.50
Nil
4.
Christof Mascher
30.00
Nil
5.
Mahender Kumar Garg w.e.f. June 30, 2024
12.00
Nil
6.
Mukul Kant Gupta w.e.f. November 21, 2024
1.00
Nil
7.
Chandran Ratnaswami
Nil
Nil
8.
Rajendra Beri upto June 30, 2024
12.00
Nil
	
Pecuniary relationship or transactions
Except to the extent of insurance policies taken in the ordinary course of business, the sitting fees paid as mentioned 
hereinabove, the Non-Executive Directors (including Independent Directors) do not have any pecuniary relationships 
or transactions with the Company.
	
Criteria for making payments to Non-Executive Directors
The criteria for payment of remuneration to Non-Executive Directors is in consonance with the Remuneration Policy 
for Non-Executive Directors of the Company which is available on our website i.e. www.godigit.com.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
57
14
123
01
6.	
General Body Meetings
	
a)	 Annual General Meetings
	
The details of the AGMs of the Company including Special Resolutions passed in the last three financial years 
are given below:
Annual 
General 
Meeting
Day, Date
Time
Mode
Venue
Special Resolution
Eighth AGM
Wednesday, 
August 14, 
2024
10.00 a.m. Physical
Tango 
Hall, 
Ground 
Floor, 
Hotel 
Blue 
Diamond, 
11 
Koregaon Road, 
Pune 
411001, 
Maharashtra, 
India.
(i)	
Appointment of Mahender Kumar 
Garg (DIN: 00081454), as a Non-
Executive Independent Director of 
the Company
(ii)	
Ratification of the “Go Digit – 
Employee 
Stock 
Option 
Plan 
2018” (“ESOP 2018”/ “Plan”)
(iii)	 Ratification of the extension of 
the benefits under the “Go Digit 
– Employee Stock Option Plan 
2018” (“ESOP 2018”/ “Plan”) to the 
employees of Go Digit Infoworks 
Services Private Limited, Holding 
Company
(iv)	 To approve the amendment in the 
“Go Digit – Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2018” (“ESOP 2018”/ “Plan”)
Seventh AGM
Wednesday, 
July 26, 2023
12.30 p.m. Physical
1st 
Floor, 
Ananta 
One 
(AR 
One), 
Pride 
Hotel 
Lane, 
Narveer 
Tanaji 
Wadi, 
City 
Survey 
No. 
1579, 
(Bhamburda) 
Shivajinagar, 
Pune – 411005, 
Maharashtra, 
India
(i)	
To approve amendment in the “Go 
Digit- Employee Stock Option Plan 
2018” (“ESOP 2018”/ “Plan”)
(ii)	
To 
change 
the 
terms 
of 
appointment of Jasleen Kohli from 
‘liable to retire by rotation’ to ‘not 
liable to retire by rotation’
(iii)	 To approve continuation of term 
of 
appointment 
of 
Chandran 
Ratnaswami 
(DIN: 
00109215), 
Non-Executive Director of the 
Company, after he attains the age 
of seventy-five (75) years
Sixth AGM
Wednesday,
July 20, 2022
12.00 
noon
Physical
1st 
Floor, 
Ananta 
One 
(AR 
One), 
Pride 
Hotel 
Lane, 
Narveer 
Tanaji 
Wadi, 
City 
Survey 
No. 
1579, 
(Bhamburda) 
Shivajinagar, 
Pune – 411005, 
Maharashtra, 
India
(i)	
To 
appoint 
Christof 
Mascher 
(DIN:09083996) as Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director 
of 
the 
Company
(ii)	
To re-appoint Rajendra Beri (DIN: 
03177323) as a Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director 
of 
the 
Company
(iii)	 To re-appoint Vandana Gupta 
(DIN: 
07790005) 
as 
a 
Non-
Executive Independent Director of 
the Company
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
58
	
b)	 Extraordinary General Meeting
	
The details of the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held during the financial year under review is 
given below:
Extraordinary
General Meeting
Day, Date
Time
Mode
Venue
Special 
Resolution
EGM
Friday, 
May 3, 
2024
5.00 p.m.
Video 
Conference
Deemed Venue-1st Floor, Ananta 
One 
(AR 
One), 
Pride 
Hotel 
Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City 
Survey No. 1579, (Bhamburda) 
Shivajinagar, Pune – 411005, 
Maharashtra, India
(i)	
Adoption 
of New 
Articles of 
Association
	
c)	
Postal Ballot
	
During the year, following resolution was passed by the Members of the Company through postal ballot-
	
1)	
Appointment of Mukul Kant Gupta (DIN: 08730748) as a Non-Executive Independent Director of the 
Company for a period of three (3) years w.e.f. November 21, 2024.
	
d)	 Special Resolution proposed to be conducted through Postal Ballot
	
No Special Resolution is proposed to be conducted through Postal Ballot as on the date of this Report.
	
e)	
Procedure followed for Postal Ballot
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 of the the Act, Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 (“the Management Rules”) and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules, 
read with General Circulars issued by the MCA having reference No. 14/2020, along with subsequent circulars 
issued in this regard (collectively referred to as “MCA Circulars”), Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
read with Circulars issued by SEBI (collectively referred to as ‘SEBI Circulars’), Secretarial Standard on General 
Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and other applicable laws, rules, 
circulars and regulations (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being 
in force) the approval of Members of the Company for the below mentioned resolution was obtained by Postal 
Ballot through remote e-voting process. The details of the Postal Ballot activity is mentioned hereunder:
Description of Resolution
Appointment of Mukul Kant Gupta (DIN: 08730748) as a Non-
Executive Independent Director of the Company for a period of 
three (3) years w.e.f. November 21, 2024
Remote e-voting
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”)
Scrutinizer
M/s. Kanj & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries
Cut-off date
Friday, December 13, 2024
Total number of Shareholders as on Cut-
off date
64,747
Dispatch date of Notice
Tuesday, December 17, 2024
Remote e-voting period
The remote e-voting commenced on Friday, December 20, 2024, 
at 9:00 a.m. (IST) and ended on Saturday, January 18, 2025, at 
5:00 p.m. (IST).
Date of passing of Resolution
Saturday, January 18, 2025
Date of declaration of voting results
Tuesday, January 21, 2025
Link of Company’s website for voting 
result of Postal Ballot
www.godigit.com/investor-relations
Sr. 
No
Resolution
No. of
shares held
No. of
votes polled
Votes cast in 
favour
Votes cast 
against
1
Appointment of Mukul Kant Gupta (DIN: 
08730748) as a Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company for a period of 
three (3) years w.e.f. November 21, 2024
92,16,39,757 81,96,16,106 81,95,18,247
 97,859
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
59
14
123
01
7.	
Means of communication
During 
the 
year, 
pursuant 
to 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations,applicable regulations , circulars issued 
by IRDAI and the Act, the Company has followed the 
following process for means of communication with 
its Members:
	
(a)	 Communication of quarterly results
	
The 
un-audited 
quarterly 
and 
half-yearly 
financial results alongwith the limited review 
report thereto and the audited annual financial 
results alongwith the audit report thereto are 
submitted with the Stock Exchanges immediately 
after they are approved by the Board of Directors 
in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
These results are simultaneously posted on 
the website of the Company at www.godigit.
com pursuant to Regulation 47 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and as per the requirement of public 
disclosures under IRDAI Regulations.
	
(b)	 Newspapers wherein results are normally 
published
	
Quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial 
results of the Company are published in widely 
circulated national newspapers, as per the 
details given below:
	
n	
The Financial Express (English language)
	
n	
Loksatta (Marathi language)
	
Pursuant to the recent amendments in SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Company had given 
Quick Response (QR) code containing weblink 
of the website of the Company wherein the 
financials are uploaded, in the aforesaid 
newspapers.
	
In addition to the above, the Company also 
publishes notice of AGM / Postal Ballot, and 
other required information in the aforesaid 
newspapers.
	
(c)	 Website
	
The Company’s website www.godigit.com serves 
as a key awareness facility for all its stakeholders, 
allowing them to access information at their 
convenience. The Company has implemented a 
separate dedicated section “Investor Relations” 
on the website of the Company where all 
information 
is 
available 
which, 
inter-alia, 
includes stock exchange filings, all statutory 
policies, latest press releases, financial results, 
investor presentations, quarterly earnings call 
transcripts and quarterly earnings call audio 
recording and other exchange intimation, brief 
profile of Directors and Key Members are also 
hosted.
	
(d)	 Communication of official news releases
	
As on March 31, 2025, the official news releases 
of the Company were submitted with the 
stock exchanges as required under the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and are also placed on the 
Company’s website and its social media page.
	
(e)	 Presentations 
made 
to 
institutional 
investors or to the analysts
	
The schedule of analysts / institutional investors 
meetings and presentations, if any, made to 
them were informed to the stock exchanges and 
also uploaded on the Company’s website. The 
Company also conducted calls/meetings with 
investors post declaration of financial results to 
brief on the performance of the Company. The 
audio recordings and transcripts of quarterly 
earnings calls are also uploaded on the 
Company’s website and stock exchanges.
	
(f)	 Fit and proper declaration
	
The IRDAI (Registration, Capital Structure, 
Transfer of Shares and Amalgamation of 
Insurers) 
Regulations, 
2024 
prescribe 
the 
following compliance requirement for transfer/ 
acquisition of equity shares of the Company in 
the below scenarios:
Particulars
Compliance 
Requirement
Transfer of 1% or 
more but less than 
5% of paid-up equity 
capital
File self-certification 
with the Company 
that such transfer is in 
compliance with other 
applicable laws
Acquisition of 5% 
or more of paid-up 
equity capital
Seek prior permission 
of IRDAI before 
acquisition
8.	
General shareholder information
	
a)	 Annual General Meeting- date, time and 
venue
	
As per the notice calling 9th AGM of the 
Company.
	
b)	 Financial year
	
The financial year covers the period from April 1, 
2024 to March 31, 2025.
	
c)	
Dividend payment date
	
The Company did not declare any dividend 
during the financial year.
	
d)	 The name and address of each stock 
exchange(s) at which the listed entity’s 
securities are listed and a confirmation 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
60
about payment of annual listing fee to 
each of such stock exchange(s)
	
The Company’s Equity Shares are listed on 
BSE Limited (“BSE”) (scrip code: 544179) and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) 
(Symbol: GODIGIT).
	
BSE Address: Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal 
Street, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001
	
NSE Address: Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 
– 400 051.
	
The annual listing fees for financial year 2024-
25 have been paid by the Company to both the 
stock exchanges.
	
h)	 In case the securities are suspended from 
trading, the Directors’ Report shall explain 
the reason thereof
	
During the year, the securities of the Company 
were not suspended from trading.
	
i)	
Registrar to an issue and share transfer 
agents
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly 
known as Link Intime India Pvt Ltd)
	
Communication Address:
	
MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd, C 101, Embassy 247, 
L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083.
	
R & T Services - Shares and Interest on Bonds : 
(0) 810 811 6767
	
Fixed Deposits Registry Services : 
022 - 4918 6260
	
Public Issue-Shares and Bonds (Allotment) : (0) 
810 811 4949 Fax : 022 - 4918 6060 Toll-free 
number: 1800 1020 878 Email: rnt.helpdesk@
in.mpms.mufg.com 
Website: 
www.in.mpms.
mufg.com
	
j)	
Share transfer system
	
Trading in Equity Shares of the Company 
through BSE Limited or NSE is permitted only 
in dematerialized form. During the financial 
year 2024-25, all the shares of the Company 
were in dematerialized form. Further, as per 
the Act and applicable SEBI regulations the 
transfer of securities would be carried out only in 
dematerialized form.
	
k)	
Distribution of shareholding
	
As on March 31, 2025 the distribution of 
shareholding was as below:
	
Promoter and Promoter Group: 73.12%
	
Public: 26.88%
	
l)	
Dematerialization of shares and liquidity
	
The Company’s shares enjoy demat facility with 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) 
and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(CDSL) with ISIN INE03JT01014. As on March 
31, 2025, entire shareholding of the Company 
was in demat mode.
	
m)	 Outstanding Global Depository Receipts 
(GDR) or American Depository Receipts 
(ADR) or Warrants or any convertible 
instruments, conversion date and likely 
impact on equity
	
As on March 31, 2025, there were no outstanding 
GDRs/ADRs/Warrants 
or 
any 
convertible 
instruments issued by the Company.
	
n)	 Commodity price risk or foreign exchange 
risk and hedging activities
	
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange 
risk and the impact of which is not material on 
the financial statements. The Company does not 
undertake any commodity business and has not 
entered into any hedging transactions for said risks.
	
o)	 Plant locations
	
This is not applicable to the Company, as the 
Company is not a manufacturing entity.
	
p)	 Address for correspondence
	
Go Digit General Insurance Limited, 1st Floor, 
Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji 
Wadi, City Survey No. 1579, Shivajinagar, Pune, 
Maharashtra, India, 411005.
	
q)	 List of all credit ratings obtained by the 
entity along with any revisions thereto 
during the relevant financial year, for all 
debt instruments of such entity or any 
fixed deposit programme or any scheme 
or proposal of the listed entity involving 
mobilization of funds, whether in India or 
abroad
	
As at March 31, 2025 the Company has not 
obtained any credit rating or any revision for 
debt instruments of Company or any fixed 
deposit programme or any scheme or proposal 
of the Company involving mobilization of funds, 
whether in India or abroad.
During the year, CRISIL Ratings Limited (“CRISIL”) 
had reaffirmed its CRISIL A+ (pronounced as CRISIL 
A plus) rating to the Company and revised the outlook 
to Positive from Stable.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
61
14
123
01
9.	
Other Disclosures
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Company Remarks
a)
disclosures on materially significant related 
party transactions that may have potential 
conflict with the interests of listed entity at 
large;
There were no materially significant related party transactions 
that may have potential conflict with the interest of the 
Company.
The Policy on related party transactions has been hosted on 
the website of the Company and the same can be viewed at 
www.godigit.com/investor-relations
b)
details of non-compliance by the listed 
entity, penalties, strictures imposed on the 
listed entity by stock exchange(s) or the 
Board or any statutory authority, on any 
matter related to capital markets, during the 
last three years;
The Company had submitted details of Related Party 
Transactions under Regulation 23(9) of SEBI Listing Regulations 
along with the financials of the Company for half year ended 
September 30, 2024, on October 24, 2024 within 30 minutes 
of conclusion of Board Meeting. However, XBRL submission of 
the same was made with delay on October 25, 2024 and to 
that extent the Company has not complied with the provisions 
of Regulation 23(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. A fine of 
` 5,000/- each was levied by National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited on the Company and the Company 
has paid the specified amount of fine.
c)
details of establishment of vigil mechanism/
whistle blower policy, and affirmation that 
no personnel has been denied access to the 
Audit Committee
The Company has in place Board approved Whistle Blower 
Policy. The Policy has been hosted on the website of the 
Company and can be viewed at www.godigit.com/investor-
relations.
Further, no person has been denied access to the Audit 
Committee.
d)
details of compliance with mandatory 
requirements 
and 
adoption 
of 
the 
non-mandatory requirements
The Company has complied with the mandatory and non-
mandatory requirements applicable to the Company.
The Company is fully committed to complying with all 
regulatory and statutory requirements.
e)
web-link where policy for determining 
‘material’ subsidiaries is disclosed
www.godigit.com/investor-relations
f)
web-link where policy on dealing with 
related party transactions
www.godigit.com/investor-relations
g)
disclosure of commodity price risks and 
commodity hedging activities
The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk and the 
impact of which is not material on the financial statements.
The Company does not undertake any commodities business 
and has not entered into any hedging transactions for said 
risks.
h)
details 
of 
utilization 
of 
funds 
raised 
through preferential allotment or qualified 
institutional placement as specified under 
Regulation 32 (7A).
During the year under review, the Company has not raised any 
funds through Preferential Allotment or Qualified institutional 
Placement as specified under the provisions of the Act and 
Regulation 32(7A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
i)
a certificate from a company secretary in 
practice, that none of the directors on the 
Board of the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as directors of companies by the 
Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any 
such statutory authority.
Certificate forms part of this report
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
62
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Company Remarks
j)
where the Board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any Committee of the 
Board which is mandatorily required, in 
the relevant financial year, the same to be 
disclosed along with reasons thereof:
Provided that the clause shall only apply 
where recommendation of / submission by 
the committee is required for the approval 
of the Board of Directors and shall not 
apply where prior approval of the relevant 
Committee is required for undertaking any 
transaction under these Regulations.
Board has accepted all recommendations of Committees 
during the financial year 2024-25
k)
total fees for all services paid by the listed 
entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated 
basis, to the statutory auditor and all entities 
in the network firm/network entity of which 
the statutory auditor is a part.
Please refer note no. 34 of the financial statement for financial 
year 2024-25
l)
disclosures 
in 
relation 
to 
the 
Sexual 
Harassment 
of 
Women 
at 
Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013:
a.	
number of complaints filed during the 
financial year
b. 	
number of complaints disposed of 
during the financial year
c. 	
number of complaints pending as on 
end of the financial year.
1
1
0
m)
disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries 
of ‘Loans and advances in the nature of 
loans to firms/companies in which Directors 
are interested by name and amount
During the year, the Company has not given any loans and 
advances to firms/companies in which Directors are interested.
n)
Details of material subsidiaries of the 
listed entity; including the date and place 
of incorporation and the name and date of 
appointment of the statutory auditors of 
such subsidiaries
During the year, the Company did not have any subsidiary.
10.	 Non-compliance 
of 
any 
requirement 
of 
Corporate Governance Report of sub-paras (2) 
to (10) of Part C of Schedule V, with reasons 
thereof shall be disclosed
The Company has complied with all requirements of 
Corporate Governance Report.
11.	 Disclosure w.r.t. discretionary requirements as 
specified in Part E of Schedule II
The Company has complied with all applicable 
mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 
to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation 
2 of Regulation 46 and para C, D and E of Schedule 
V of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In addition to 
the mandatory requirements, the Company has 
also 
complied 
with 
following 
non-mandatory 
requirements:
	
The Board
The office of Chairman is held by Kamesh Goyal who 
is a Non-Executive Director of the Company. The 
Company reimburses all expenses to him incurred 
by him in due discharge of his duties as a Chairman. 
Further, the Company also has one woman 
Independent Director on its Board.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
63
14
123
01
	
Audit Qualifications
The Company’s financial statements are unqualified 
/ unmodified.
	
Separate posts of Chairman and Managing 
Director or Chief Executive Officer
The Chairman and MD & CEO are two different posts, 
where the Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and 
they are not related to each other.
	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
The Internal Auditor reports to the Audit Committee.
12.	 The disclosures of the compliance with 
corporate governance requirements specified 
in Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses and (t), 
after (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46
The Company has complied with all applicable 
mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 
to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation 2 
of Regulation 46 and para C, D and E of Schedule V 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Company is fully committed to complying with all 
regulatory and statutory requirements.
13.	 Declaration signed by the CEO stating that the 
Members of Board of Directors and SMP have 
affirmed compliance with the code of conduct 
of Board of Directors and senior management.
The same has been annexed to this report.
14.	 Compliance certificate from either the auditors 
or practicing company secretaries regarding 
compliance 
of 
conditions 
of 
corporate 
governance shall be annexed with the 
Directors’ report
The same has been annexed to this report.
15.	 Disclosures with respect to demat suspense 
account/ unclaimed suspense account
There were no equity shares lying in the unclaimed 
suspense account for financial year 2024-25.
16.	 Disclosure of certain types of agreements 
binding listed entities
There are no agreements with any party which 
impact the management or control of the Company 
or impose any restriction or create any liability upon 
the Company.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
64
To,
The Members of
Go Digit General Insurance Limited,
1.	
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms 
of our engagement letter.
	
We have examined the compliance of conditions of 
Corporate Governance by Go Digit General Insurance 
Limited (‘the Company’) for the period April 1, 2024 
to March 31, 2025, as stipulated in Regulations 
17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2), and 
paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’ and such Regulations as “Corporate 
Governance”) to the extent those are covered and 
are not inconsistent with compliance requirements 
of Guidelines for Corporate Governance for Insurers 
issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (the ‘IRDAI Corporate Governance 
Guidelines’) and the Companies Act 2013, to the 
extent applicable.
Management’s Responsibility
2.	
The Board of Directors and the management 
of the Company are responsible for compliance 
of 
the 
stipulations 
of 
Corporate 
Governance 
which includes the designing, implementing and 
maintaining operating effectiveness of internal 
control in preparation of corporate governance 
report, ensuring compliance with the requirements 
of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing 
Regulations and applying an appropriate basis of 
preparation; making estimates and judgements that 
are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing 
Regulations, our responsibility is to express a 
reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion 
as to whether the Company has complied with 
the 
conditions 
of 
Corporate 
Governance 
as 
stated in paragraph 2 above. Our responsibility 
is limited to examining the procedures adopted 
and implementation thereof by the Company for 
ensuring compliance with requirements of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression 
of opinion on the disclosure and presentation of 
corporate governance report of the Company.
4.	
Our responsibility is limited to examining the 
procedures and implementation thereof, adopted 
Independent Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance
by the Company for ensuring compliance with the 
conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither 
an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company.
5.	
We have examined the relevant records of the 
Company in accordance with the Guidance Note on 
Certification of Corporate Governance and Guidance 
Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes 
(Revised 2016), both issued by the ICAI which requires 
that we comply with the ethical requirements of the 
Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
6.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable 
requirements of the Standard on Quality Control 
(SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits 
and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and 
Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
7.	
Based on our examination of the relevant records 
and according to the information and explanations 
provided to us and the representations provided 
by the Management, we certify that the Company 
has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and. 
clauses (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and para C, D and 
E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations during the 
year ended March 31, 2024, to the extent applicable 
to it. We state that such compliance is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
the	 Management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
Restriction on use
8.	
This certificate is issued solely for the purpose 
of complying with the requirements ofCorporate 
Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations 
and may not be suitabie for any other purpose. 
Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability 
or any duty of care for any other purpose.
For PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP
Chartered Accountant
Seethalakshmi M
Partner
Place of Signature: Bangalore           Membership No. 208545
Date: April 28, 2025 	
UDIN: 25208545BMNSJD4880
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
65
14
123
01
Certification for compliance of the Corporate Governance Master Circular
I, Rasika Kuber, hereby certify that Go Digit General Insurance Limited has complied with the IRDAI (Corporate Governance 
for Insurers) Regulations, 2024 and the circulars issued there under.
Nothing has been concealed or suppressed.
Rasika Kuber
Chief Compliance Officer
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
66
Certificate from Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on 
Compliance with Code of Conduct
Date: April 28, 2025
To
The Board of Directors
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
1 to 6 Floor, Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane,Narveer
Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No.1579, Shivajinagar, Pune,
Maharashtra, India, 411005
I, Jasleen Kohli, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Company hereby confirm that all Board Members and 
Senior Management Team have affirmed compliance with the terms of the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior 
Management of Go Digit General Insurance Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Name- Jasleen Kohli
Designation- Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
DIN- 07634112
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
67
14
123
01
CERTIFICATE ON NON-DISQUALIFICATIONS OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (l0) (i) of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
1 to 6 Floor, Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No.1579, Shivajinagar, Pune, 411005
We have examined the relevant records, registers, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Go Digit General 
Insurance Limited (hereinafter referred to as “Company”) and made available to us for the purpose of issuing this 
Certificate. In accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause l0(i) of the Securities Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, we hereby certify that:
None of the following Directors of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
directors of the Company by the Securities and Exchange Board of India or the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any other 
statutory authority, for the period commencing from April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025:
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
1.
Kamesh Goyal
01816985
2.
Gopalakrishnan Soundarajan
05242795
3.
Vandana Gupta
07790005
4.
Christof Mascher
09083996
5.
Mahender Kumar Garg
00081454
6.
Mukul Kant Gupta
08730748
7.
Jasleen Kohli
07634112
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these matters based on our verification. 
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For KANJ & Co. LLP
Company Secretaries
Sunil Nanal 
Partner
FCS No: 5977 CP.No:2809
UDIN: F005977G000712837
Date: July 4, 2025 	
Firm Unique Code: P2000MH005900 
Place: Pune 	
Peer Review Number: 6309/2024 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
68
Certification in terms of Regulation 17(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations
Date: April 28,2025
To,
The Board of Directors
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
In relation to the Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 we hereby certify the following:
A.	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year and that to the best of our 
knowledge and belief:
	
1)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading;
	
2)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the listed entity’s affairs and are in compliance with 
existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the listed entity during the year 
which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the listed entity’s code of conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the listed entity pertaining to financial reporting and we 
have disclosed to the auditors and the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal 
controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee
	
1)	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
2)	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes 
to the financial statements; and
	
3)	
instances of significant fraud of which they have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the 
management or an employee having a significant role in the listed entity’s internal control system over financial 
reporting
For Go Digit General Insurance Limited
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Jasleen Kohli
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
69
14
123
01
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the Listed Entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed 
Entity
L66010PN2016PLC167410
2
Name of the Listed Entity
Go Digit General Insurance Limited (“the Entity/Go Digit/ the 
Company”)
3
Year of incorporation
December 7, 2016
4
Registered office address
1st to 6th Floor, Ananta One, Pride Hotel Lane, Narveer 
Tanaji Wadi, City Survey No.1579, Shivajinagar, Pune, 
Maharashtra, India, 411005
5
Corporate address
Atlantis, 95, 4th B Cross Road, Koramangala Industrial 
Layout, 5th Block, Bengaluru 560095
6
E-mail
cs@godigit.com
7
Telephone
020 67495400
8
Website
www.godigit.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being 
done
Financial Year 2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares 
are listed
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11
Paid-up Capital
` 9,23,02,59,340 
12
Name  and  contact details  (telephone,  
email  address)  of  the  person  who  may  be 
contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR 
report
Tejas Saraf, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
E-mail: cs@godigit.com 
Telephone: 020 67495400
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures 
under this report made on a standalone basis 
(i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated 
basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities 
which form a part of its consolidated financial 
statements, taken together)
Standalone
14
Name of assurance provider
Assurance is not applicable for financial year 2024-25
15
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II.	
Products/Services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
Financial and Insurance Service
Non-life Insurance and Reinsurance 
activities
100.00
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. 
No
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Non-Life Insurance
65120
100.00
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
70
III. Operations 
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
S. 
No
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
1
National
-
86
86
2
International
-
0
0
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations
S. 
No
Locations
Number
1
National (No. of States)
28
2
International (No. of Countries)
0
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
0%
	
	
Given the nature of business, the Entity does not engage in any export activities.
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
Go Digit caters to individuals as well as entities to offer customized insurance solutions that include coverage 
for motor, health, travel, and property for individuals. For businesses, it provides products such as commercial 
vehicle, marine cargo, crop insurance, aviation insurance, engineering insurance, property insurance, workmen 
compensation insurance, liability insurance and many other types of Non-life insurance products. Furthermore, 
the Company collaborates with institutional clients and distribution partners like Brokers, Corporate Agents, 
Motor Insurance Service Providers, Web Aggregators, Insurance Marketing Firms and Individual Agents/Point 
of Salespersons to improve accessibility and broaden its market reach across India, serving both individuals and 
corporate customers.
IV.	 Employees 
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled): **
S. 
No
Particulars
Total(A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)
4534 
3452 
76.14
1082 
23.86
2
Other than Permanent (E)
83
64
77.11
19
22.89
3
Total employees (D + E)
4617
3516
76.15
1101
23.85
Workers*
4
Permanent (F)
-
-
-
-
-
5
Other than Permanent (G)
-
-
-
-
-
6
Total workers (F + G)
-
-
-
-
-
	
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report
	
	
** Total employee count do not include off-roll/third-party contractual employees
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
71
14
123
01
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. 
No
Particulars
Total(A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
Differently abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
12
11
91.67
1
8.33
2
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
12
11
91.67
1
8.33
Differently abled Workers*
4
Permanent (F)
-
-
-
-
-
5
Other than Permanent (G)
-
-
-
-
-
6
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
-
-
-
-
-
	
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:
Total(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No.(B)
%(B/A)
Board of Directors
7
2
28.57
Key Management Personnel*
3
1
33.33
	
*The Key Managerial Personnel have been identified in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Financial Year 2025 
(Turnover rate in 
current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Turnover rate in 
previous Financial Year)
Financial Year 2023 
(Turnover rate in the 
year prior to the previous 
Financial Year)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees (%)
26.98 
36.51
29.24
26.61 
38.98 
29.53 
31.34 
43.52 
34.11 
Permanent Workers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) 
23.	 a.	
Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No
Name of the holding/ 
subsidiary/ associate 
companies/ joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares held in 
the listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
in column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? 
(Yes/No)
1
Go Digit Infoworks 
Services Private Limited
Holding
73.11
No
VI.	 CSR Details 
24.	 i.	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes
	
ii. 	
Turnover (in `)
	
	
` 1,02,82,14,07,794
	
iii. 	 Net worth (in `)
	
	
` 40,32,92,02,062
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
72
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (“NGRBC”)
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom complaint 
is received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No) (If Yes, then 
provide web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy)
Financial Year 2025 (Current 
Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous 
Financial Year)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes, communication of 
any grievances can be 
sent through an e-mail 
addressed to hello@
godigit.com or refer 
to Contact Us | Digit 
Insurance section of 
our website: https://
www.godigit.com/
contact
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes
https://www.godigit.
com/content/dam/
godigit/general/
investor-relations/
investor-grievance-
redressal-framework.
pdf
0
0
-
0
0
-
Shareholders*
Yes
https://www.godigit.
com/content/dam/
godigit/general/
investor-relations/
investor-grievance-
redressal-framework.
pdf
116
0
-
0
0
-
Employees and 
workers
Yes
https://www.godigit.
com/content/dam/
godigit/general/
investor-relations/
euclid/material-
contracts/Whistle%20
Blower%20Policy.pdf
3
0
-
0
0
-
Customers
Yes
https://www.godigit.
com/claim/grievance-
redressal-procedure
2,429
0
-
1,805
0
-
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes, communication of 
any grievances can be 
sent through an e-mail 
addressed to hello@
godigit.com or refer 
to Contact Us | Digit 
Insurance section of 
our website: https://
www.godigit.com/
contact
0
0
-
0
0
-
	
*The equity shares of the Company were listed on BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited on May 23, 2024. 
The Shareholder complaints mentioned above mostly comprises of the grievance reported by the applicants related to refund of 
IPO application amount and allocation of shares. 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
73
14
123
01
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and 
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to 
adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its ﬁnancial implications, as per the following format:-
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1.
Operational 
Eco - 
efficiency
Opportunity
Minimizing 
the 
Company's 
carbon 
and waste intensity is 
essential for reducing its 
overall 
environmental 
footprint, and mitigating 
broader 
societal 
impacts. 
Additionally, 
collaborating with clients 
engaged in renewable 
energy 
by 
offering 
appropriate risk solutions 
further 
reinforces 
this 
commitment.
Go Digit is committed to 
transitioning its operations 
toward a lower environmental 
footprint by reducing carbon 
and waste intensity through 
initiatives such as paperless 
operations, chatbot-enabled 
automation, 
water-saving 
aerators in taps, centralized 
AC 
controls 
in 
meeting 
rooms, and an open-desk 
workspace, 
through 
these 
measures the Company is 
fostering a more resource-
efficient and environmentally 
responsible workplace.
Positive
These efforts 
enhance operational 
efficiency, promote 
eco-friendly 
practices, reduce 
costs, and strengthen 
the Company’s 
reputation as an 
environmentally 
responsible 
organization, 
fostering greater 
customer trust and 
loyalty.
2.
Climate 
Change
Risk
Climate 
change 
can 
increase the frequency 
and 
severity 
of 
claims, 
potentially 
exceeding expectations. 
Additionally, 
it 
could 
affect 
multiple 
lines 
of business within the 
Company due to adverse 
weather conditions.
Climate change risks and 
the need to adapt to its 
impacts have been a core 
part of the risk management 
strategy. We will consistently 
align an underwriting and 
investment 
policies 
to 
address the changing climate 
risk landscape, while also 
promoting sustainable and 
financially viable products.
Negative 
Effective mechanisms 
for identifying and 
integrating climate 
risks empower the 
Company to price its 
products accurately 
and strategically.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
74
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
3.
Diversity, 
equity and 
inclusion
Opportunity
The 
Company 
views 
Diversity, 
Equity, 
and 
Inclusion 
(“DEI”) 
serve as key drivers of 
innovation, 
business 
growth, and a dynamic 
workplace 
culture. 
A 
diverse workforce brings 
fresh perspectives that 
enhance 
decision-
making, problem-solving, 
and 
customer-centric 
solutions. An inclusive 
environment 
fosters 
employee 
engagement, 
retention, 
and 
productivity, 
ensuring 
a 
collaborative 
and 
empowering workspace. 
By embedding DEI into 
operations, the Company 
strengthens 
its 
brand 
reputation, attracts top 
talent, and reinforces its 
position as a digital-first, 
forward-thinking insurer.
Go Digit fosters an inclusive 
workplace where diversity 
is 
celebrated, 
and 
every 
employee feels valued.
The Company ensures equal 
opportunities 
regardless 
of age, ethnicity, disability, 
or 
sexual 
orientation. 
Its 
programs celebrate diversity 
through occasions such as 
the Pride Utsav during Pride 
Month. For Women’s Day, 
the 
Company 
introduced 
“Beyond 9-5,” a special series 
to highlight the remarkable 
achievements and passions 
of 
its 
female 
employees 
outside of work. For Men’s 
Day, the Company raised 
awareness around Prostate 
Cancer, Health Issues, and 
Liver Issues to highlight the 
theme #ManUpForHealth.
Positive
Workforce diversity is 
essential for business 
success, helping 
attract top talent 
and strengthening 
the Company’s 
reputation as a 
leading service 
provider.
4.
Employee 
Wellbeing, 
Health and 
Safety
Opportunity
Employees 
are 
the 
Company’s 
greatest 
asset, 
and 
prioritizing 
their well-being directly 
impacts 
productivity, 
engagement, 
and 
retention. A healthy and 
motivated 
workforce 
enhances 
overall 
performance, 
reduces 
absenteeism, and fosters 
a 
positive 
workplace 
culture. 
Investing 
in 
employee well-being also 
strengthens 
employer 
branding, attracting top 
talent 
and 
improving 
long-term 
business 
resilience.
Go Digit fosters engagement 
through cultural celebrations 
and 
wellness 
programs. 
Employee 
well-being 
is 
prioritized 
with 
health 
benefits, parental policies, 
and 
zero 
tolerance 
for 
harassment.
Initiatives like Pride Utsav, 
Men’s and Women’s Day, 
regional 
celebrations, 
and 
wellness programs promote 
engagement and well-being.
Employee 
well-being 
is 
prioritized 
through 
fitness 
challenges, health check-ups, 
mental health support, and 
awareness programs.
Positive 
Prioritizing employee 
well-being enhances 
morale, productivity, 
and retention 
while fostering a 
safe, healthy work 
environment and a 
positive Company 
culture.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
75
14
123
01
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
5.
Customer 
Centricity
Opportunity A 
customer-centric 
approach 
enhances 
satisfaction, 
fosters 
loyalty, and strengthens 
competitive 
advantage. 
Go 
Digit 
places 
the 
customer at the core 
of 
business 
decisions, 
processes, 
and 
offerings. This involves 
understanding 
their 
needs, 
preferences, 
and 
expectations 
and 
aligning 
the 
products, 
services, and experiences 
accordingly.
Go Digit builds a strong brand 
through 
inclusive 
policies, 
customer engagement, and 
transparency. Net Promoters 
Score 
(“NPS”) 
insights 
and 
open 
social 
media 
feedback drives continuous 
improvement, fostering trust 
and loyalty.
The Policyholder Protection, 
Grievance 
Redressal 
and 
Claims Monitoring Committee 
of the Company is tasked with 
setting up effective systems 
to 
protect 
policyholders, 
raising insurance awareness, 
empowering 
them, 
and 
ensuring efficient grievance 
handling 
and 
claims 
monitoring.
Positive 
A strong customer 
focus drives 
increased revenue 
through higher 
retention and 
acquisition.
6.
Financial 
Inclusion
Opportunity Offering 
affordable 
insurance 
products 
expands 
financial 
access 
across 
a 
diverse customer base, 
including those at the 
bottom of the pyramid. 
Providing 
financial 
access to lower sections 
of society and digital 
access 
to 
physically 
challenged 
individuals 
fosters 
inclusivity 
and 
empowerment, 
ultimately strengthening 
communities 
and 
enhancing resilience for 
all.
This 
helps 
individuals 
safeguard 
their 
financial well-being and 
strengthens 
societal 
resilience 
against 
unforeseen hardships.
Enhances sales and customer 
engagement 
by 
offering 
digital-first, 
SME-focused 
insurance solutions, flexible 
sachet-based 
policies, 
and 
value-added 
services 
like 
expert-backed 
motor 
protection plans. Data-driven 
insights, peer benchmarking, 
and 
personalized 
recommendations 
ensure 
tailored coverage that meets 
diverse customer needs.
Positive 
Greater access to 
insurance products 
and services 
enhances consumers’ 
financial security, 
driving increased 
demand for these 
offerings.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
76
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
7.
Community 
Development
Opportunity Go Digit recognizes the 
importance 
of 
giving 
back to society and is 
committed 
to 
making 
a 
meaningful 
impact 
on 
communities. 
The 
Company 
believes 
in 
actively engaging with 
stakeholders to identify 
opportunities where it 
can leverage its expertise 
and resources to drive 
positive change.
Go 
Digit 
CSR 
initiatives 
would prioritize community 
upliftment  by focussing on 
critical issues of the society 
as a responsible corporate 
citizen. i.e . through strategic 
partnerships and technology-
driven 
approaches, 
Go 
Digit 
aims 
to 
foster 
a 
healthier environment while 
strengthening 
community 
well-being.
Positive 
Supporting 
community 
development 
strengthens the 
Company’s brand 
image while 
enhancing the 
quality of life for 
beneficiaries.
8.
Human 
Capital 
Development
Opportunity
Performance 
can 
be 
improved 
by 
strengthening 
the 
overall employee value 
proposition across the 
Human Resource (“HR”) 
value 
chain, 
including 
recruitment, 
learning 
and 
development, 
compensation 
and 
benefits, 
talent 
management, 
diversity 
and 
inclusion, 
and 
succession planning.
Digit 
Academy 
is 
Go 
Digit’s 
internal 
Learning 
Management 
System 
(“LMS”) designed to enhance 
employee 
knowledge 
and 
skill 
development. 
It 
offers compliance courses, 
department-specific training, 
and 
self-paced 
learning 
through 
various 
online 
sessions, Digit Capsules, and 
Insurance Institute of India 
(“III”) exams study materials. 
To further support continuous 
learning, the platform will 
introduce modules on Cyber 
Security 
and 
Insurance 
Basics. Additionally, Go Digit 
invests in employee growth 
by reimbursing III exam fees 
and conducting gap analyses 
to provide targeted training, 
ensuring career advancement 
and professional excellence.
Go Digit is dedicated to 
cultivating emerging talent 
through Graduate Trainee 
Program, to launch their 
careers 
in 
the 
insurance 
sector. The Company support 
ambitious individuals through 
Management 
Trainee 
Program, 
designed 
to 
groom future leaders within 
the 
organization 
through 
intensive training and diverse 
assignments.
Positive 
A strong employee 
value proposition 
across the HR 
value chain not only 
creates financial 
opportunities but 
also drives long-term 
business success.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
77
14
123
01
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
9.
Corporate 
Governance 
& Business 
Ethics
Risk
Upholding 
strong 
business 
ethics 
is 
essential 
for 
ensuring 
ethical 
practices 
that 
comply with local and 
industry regulations while 
balancing the interests 
of 
all 
stakeholders. 
Proactive 
engagement 
with 
stakeholders 
is 
crucial for the Company 
to gain insights into their 
requirements and ensure 
mutually 
beneficial 
outcomes. Aligning with 
global 
best 
practices, 
ethical business conduct 
is 
rooted 
to 
foster 
accountability 
and 
transparency.
The 
Company’s 
corporate 
policies and codes serve as 
a key pillar of its governance 
framework, 
ensuring 
ethics, 
transparency, 
and 
compliance. Considering the 
nature of business, there 
is 
potential 
to 
encounter 
fraudulent practices at claims 
stage 
or 
policy 
issuance 
stage. Fraud detection and 
prevention measures are in 
place to identify fraud and take 
necessary corrective action. 
Company 
is 
continuously 
building 
and 
improvising 
fraud 
triggers 
based 
on 
experience 
in 
order 
to 
strengthen accountability for 
employees and stakeholders 
and ease the process of fraud 
identification.
Positive
Ethical corporate 
practices help 
minimize litigation 
and reputational 
risks, ultimately 
protecting the 
Company from 
financial losses.
10. Cybersecurity 
and Data 
privacy
Risk
With 
the 
rise 
in 
cybersecurity 
threats, 
including data breaches 
and 
financial 
fraud 
in 
the 
banking 
and 
financial sector, Go Digit 
prioritizes strengthening 
its 
information 
and 
cybersecurity framework 
across people, processes, 
and technology.
The Company’s information 
security policy is meticulously 
structured, 
incorporating 
robust 
cybersecurity 
measures 
to 
safeguard 
all 
information 
assets. 
This 
is 
ensured 
through 
the 
implementation 
of 
comprehensive management 
processes 
across 
the 
organization. 
Go 
Digit 
complies 
to 
ISO 
/IEC 
27001:2022- 
Information 
Security 
Management 
System Requirements.
Negative
The cost of 
cybersecurity 
incidents can 
escalate due to 
expenses associated 
with key areas such 
as:
•	
Internal 
Information 
Technology (“IT”) 
infrastructure 
and architecture
•	
Software 
procurement
•	
IT hardware 
upgrades
•	
Compliance 
with sector-
specific and 
theme-specific 
regulatory 
requirements.
Additionally, data 
loss or breaches can 
pose a significant 
reputational risk.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
78
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
11. Risk 
Management
Opportunity
An 
inadequate 
risk 
management 
and 
governance 
framework 
can 
significantly 
compromise 
the 
Company's 
ability 
to 
meet its commitments to 
policyholders.
The 
Company's 
risk 
management 
approach 
focuses 
on 
proactively 
identifying, evaluating, and 
addressing potential risks. It 
maintains a vigilant outlook, 
continuously 
monitoring 
both existing and emerging 
threats. A structured risk 
management 
strategy, 
framework 
and 
processes 
have 
been 
established 
to 
identify, 
monitor, 
and 
prioritize 
key 
risks 
while 
recommending 
appropriate 
controls 
and 
mitigation 
measures.
Positive
Strong risk 
management can 
result in avoiding all 
operational expenses, 
regulatory penalties, 
erosion of customer 
trust, underwriting 
and investment 
losses, and legal 
liabilities. 
12. Innovation 
and 
Digitization
Opportunity
Embracing innovation in 
emerging 
technologies 
and 
products 
is 
essential 
for 
creating 
value 
for 
customers 
and 
stakeholders. 
By 
integrating 
these 
advancements, 
the 
Company can strengthen 
security, 
optimize 
operations, 
enhance 
user 
experiences, 
and 
provide tailored services, 
ultimately 
fostering 
customer 
satisfaction 
and business expansion.
Go Digit leverages advanced 
IT to enhance its digital-
first 
insurance 
offerings, 
ensuring 
seamless 
customer experiences and 
operational efficiency. The 
Company 
integrates 
AI-
driven 
underwriting, 
real-
time claims processing, and 
cloud-based infrastructure to 
streamline services. Strong 
cybersecurity 
measures 
safeguard 
customer 
data, 
while automation and data 
analytics drive personalized 
solutions, making insurance 
more 
accessible, 
efficient, 
and tech driven.
Positive
The benefits include 
lower operational 
costs, improved 
fraud detection, 
enhanced customer 
engagement and 
increased transaction 
volumes, all of which 
contribute to greater 
profitability and a 
stronger market 
presence.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
79
14
123
01
S. 
No
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
13. Responsible 
Investment
Opportunity
Responsible 
investing 
involves 
actively 
considering Environmental, 
Social and Governance 
(“ESG”) 
factors 
in 
investment decisions to 
drive sustainable wealth 
creation and maintain a 
resilient portfolio over the 
long term. This approach 
helps mitigate emerging 
challenges such as climate 
change 
and 
evolving 
regulatory requirements.
The 
Company 
follows 
a 
strategic 
investment 
approach 
that 
balances 
growth, risk management, 
and 
sustainability. 
By 
leveraging 
data-driven 
insights, 
the 
Company 
optimizes capital allocation to 
enhance financial resilience, 
support digital innovation, 
and drive long-term value 
creation in the insurance 
ecosystem.
Positive
Integrating ESG 
principles allows for 
the management of 
key non-financial 
risks, including 
regulatory, 
operational, and 
reputational 
concerns.
It also opens avenues 
for developing 
thematic investment 
products that align 
with the increasing 
demand from 
investors.
14. Brand & 
Reputation 
Management
Opportunity A positive brand image 
improves 
employee 
morale and efficiency. It’s 
an opportunity to build 
trust, customer loyalty 
and market leadership.
The Company strengthens 
its brand through strategic 
marketing 
and 
corporate 
communication, 
ensuring 
transparency, 
engagement 
and 
a 
consistent 
brand 
identity across all platforms.
Positive
Increased customer 
loyalty, revenue 
growth and investor 
confidence.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
80
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Policy and Management Processes
1.	
a. 	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b. 	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
P1
https://www.godigit.com/investor-relations
Certain policies and frameworks being internal documents are exclusively accessible to Go Digit’s 
employees and can be found on the Company’s intranet.
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
2.	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/No)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Go Digit extends its listed policies to value chain partners depending on the nature of association. Partners are 
encouraged to adopt these policies to support shared values and responsible practices.
4.	
Name of the national and international codes/certiﬁcations/labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
	
ISO/IEC 27001:2022 – Information Security Management System
5.	
Speciﬁc commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with deﬁned timelines, if any.
	
Go Digit is committed to establishing a structured ESG reporting that aligns with best practices, ensuring transparency 
and accountability. The Company continues to enhance operational efficiency through digital transformation and 
sustainable practices, reducing its environmental impact while improving service delivery. 
	
As part of its ongoing commitment to environmental responsibility, the Company has successfully identified and 
partnered with specialized vendors for the disposal of electric vehicle battery packs. These vendors are equipped to 
manage the disposal of battery packs of EV vehicles, especially in cases of replacement under claims. This initiative 
brings both economic and environmental benefits by ensuring safe and efficient Lithium battery disposal, reducing 
potential environmental risks, and promoting sustainable waste management practices. Through initiatives such 
as the Green Ninja Campaign, which encourages eco-friendly repairs of plastic parts of vehicle, vehicle repairs, the 
Company has integrated sustainability into its value chain. It is actively fostering responsible resource utilization and 
leading the adoption of green practices within the industry.
	
A strong emphasis is placed on diversity and inclusion, with dedicated efforts to strengthen leadership representation 
and create equitable opportunities. In addition, Go Digit is upholding ethical business practices and driving long-
term sustainable growth remaining central to its mission, reinforcing its commitment to responsible and impactful 
operations.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
81
14
123
01
6.	
Performance of the entity against the speciﬁc commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same 
are not met.
	
Go Digit is steadily aligning with best practices by refining its performance metrics and reporting mechanisms to 
enhance transparency and accountability. Diversity and inclusion remain a key focus, with initiatives in place to 
strengthen leadership representation and promote equitable opportunities. As operational landscapes evolve, Go 
Digit remains agile, making necessary adjustments to navigate regulatory changes and ensure effective stakeholder 
engagement.
Governance, Leadership & Oversight
7.	
Statement by Director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements (listed entity has ﬂexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
	
At Go Digit, our commitment to embedding ESG principles into our operations is central to creating a long-term value 
for our stakeholders. We continue to strengthen our ESG reporting framework, ensuring it supports sustainable 
growth, responsible business practices, and transparency, as these are essential pillars for building stakeholder 
trust.
	
Our digital-first approach has positioned us as a customer-centric insurer in the Indian market. In financial year 
2024-2025, we issued 1,21,77,315 policies digitally, enabling ease of access while also contributing meaningfully 
to environmental conservation through paperless processes and saving large number of trees from being cut. Our 
digital transformation extends to claims processing as well, where documents are handled electronically, eliminating 
the need for physical paperwork and increasing operational efficiency.
	
We also integrate social responsibility into our risk practices, including consideration of Child Protection policies. 
Our initiatives, such as partnering with Mahila Housing Trust to support heatwave-affected workers and providing 
parametric insurance to promote renewable energy and waste-to-energy solutions, reflect our dedication to social 
impact. Additionally, we support daily wage earners impacted by air quality-related construction bans in Delhi in 
association with Jan Sahas Foundation, through our parametric insurance product - reinforcing our role as a socially 
responsible  insurer.
	
Through initiatives such as the Green Ninja Campaign, which encourages eco-friendly vehicle repairs over 
replacement of parts, the Company has integrated sustainability into its value chain. This campaign helps us foster 
responsible resource utilization and introduce green practices within the insurance industry. By choosing to adopt a 
robust cloud-based infrastructure over physical data centers, the Company has been able to ensure both operational 
resilience and an enhanced customer experience.
	
As we look ahead, we remain agile and responsive to evolving ESG regulations and expectations. With a clear focus 
on innovation, collaboration, and governance, we are confident in our ability to continue creating meaningful and 
sustainable impact across all aspects of our business.
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy 
(ies).
	
The Risk Management Committee and the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee are responsible for the 
implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility Policy to ensure that the policy is effectively integrated 
into the Company’s operations and that all relevant guidelines are followed. 
9.	
Does the entity have a speciﬁed Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
	
Yes. 
	
The Risk Management Committee and the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee are responsible for decision-
making on sustainability-related issues, ensuring alignment with the Company’s risk strategy and social responsibility 
goals.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
82
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company
Principles
Performance against 
above policies and 
follow up action
Compliance with statutory requirements 
of relevance to the principles, and, 
rectiﬁcation of any non-compliances
Indicate whether 
review was 
undertaken by 
Director / Committee 
of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
P1
Yes
Yes
P2
Yes
Yes
P3
Yes
Yes
P4
Yes
Yes
P5
Yes
Yes
P6
Yes
Yes
P7
Yes
Yes
P8
Yes
Yes
P9
Yes
Yes
Frequency (Annually/ 
Half-yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other 
– please specify)
P1
Annually
On required basis
P2
Annually
On required basis
P3
Annually
On required basis
P4
Annually
On required basis
P5
Annually
On required basis
P6
Annually
On required basis
P7
Annually
On required basis
P8
Annually
On required basis
P9
Annually
On required basis
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
P1
No, Go Digit has not conducted independent assessment/evaluation of the working of its 
policies by any external agency
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a 
position to formulate and implement the 
policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity does not have the financial or/
human and technical resources available for 
the task (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
It is planned to be done in the next financial 
year (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
83
14
123
01
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is 
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the ﬁnancial year:
Segment
Total 
number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered	
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of 
Directors
5
•	
To introduce new Directors to the Company’s business 
and operations, Company provides information covering 
aspects like values of the Company, business strengths, 
performance of the Company and its Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”), brief profile of the Board of Directors, the 
composition of Board Committees, a brief profile of Senior 
Management, the latest annual report, codes and policies, 
and the remuneration payable to Directors. Additionally, 
the roles, rights, responsibilities, duties, and liabilities of the 
Independent Directors are detailed in their Appointment 
Letter.
•	
The Company had organized a session arranged for the 
Directors of the Company at its office. This session aimed 
to familiarize the Directors with the in-depth look at the 
Fraud Monitoring Engine, highlighting its key features 
and functionalities designed to enhance fraud detection 
capabilities within the Company.
•	
The Company has sent a comprehensive presentation on ESG 
awareness to the Board of Directors of the Company. This 
presentation provided a valuable insight into the importance 
of ESG, global and Indian ESG standards, and the role of 
ESG in our organization and it included in detail Global ESG 
standards and frameworks, ESG drivers and aspects for 
insurance companies, ESG regulatory landscape in India, 
including SEBI’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting (“BRSR”) requirements.
•	
During the quarterly Board and Committee meetings, the 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (“MD & 
CEO”), Key Managerial Personnel (“KMPs”) and the Senior 
Management Personnel (“SMPs”) give a detailed quarterly 
presentation on review of operations, business performance 
and strategy, financial outlook, financial reports, peer 
comparison and overall industry scenario etc. of the 
Company. 
•	
Further, presentations were given by the Chief Compliance 
Officer and Company Secretary of the Company providing 
the regulatory updates/development to the Board Members 
and the same were also discussed in the Risk Management 
Committee meetings and its impact on Company and 
actionable arising therefrom. Responsibilities prescribed on 
the Board of Directors and its Committees through these 
regulatory changes were also discussed and Directors were 
apprised about their responsibilities in detail.
100.00
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
84
Segment
Total 
number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered	
by the awareness 
programmes
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
47
•	
The Company regularly conducts various compliance 
trainings, including Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
(“POSH”), Anti - Money Laundering (“AML”) & Counter 
Financing of Terrorism (“CFT”), which are mandatory for all 
employees to complete on the LMS platform. Additionally, 
Cyber Jagrookta Diwas (Cyber Security) is held monthly, along 
with weekly Cyber Awareness emails and communications 
sent to all employees.
•	
In addition to these, the Company offers weekly online 
training sessions focused on Product, Process, Soft Skills, 
and General Awareness, aimed at enhancing employees’ 
skills and knowledge. Go Digit invests in employee growth 
by reimbursing III exam fees and conducting gap analyses to 
provide targeted training, ensuring career advancement and 
professional excellence.
100.00
Employees 
other than 
BoD and 
KMPs
63
100.00
Workers*
-
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
2.	
Details of ﬁnes / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by Directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the ﬁnancial year, in 
the following format 
	
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as speciﬁed in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and as disclosed on 
the entity’s website):
Monetary
Type
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
P1
Insurance 
Regulatory and 
Development 
Authority of 
India (“IRDAI”)
1,00,00,000 As per Section 26 of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 and applicable provisions 
thereunder, the Company has failed to 
intimate to the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India 
(“IRDAI”) the change in conversion ratio 
of Compulsory Convertible Preference 
Shares issued by its holding company as 
per a Joint Venture Agreement executed 
by it on May 30, 2017 including the 
amendments thereof and to that extent; 
the Company has not complied with 
Section 26 of the Insurance Act, 1938. The 
IRDAI vide its Order dated May 2, 2024 
imposed a penalty of Rupees One Crore 
only on the Company. The Company has 
paid the foregoing penalty to the IRDAI.
No
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
85
14
123
01
Monetary
Type
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
BSE
5,000
The Company had submitted details 
of Related Party Transactions under 
Regulation 
23(9) 
of 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations along with the financials 
of the Company for half year ended 
September 30, 2024, on  October 24, 
2024 within 30 minutes of conclusion 
of 
Board 
Meeting. 
However, 
XBRL 
submission of the same was made with 
delay on October 25, 2024 and to that 
extent the Company has not complied 
with the provisions of Regulation 23(9) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. A fine of 
` 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand) each 
was levied by National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited and BSE Limited on the 
Company and the Company has paid the 
specified amount of fine.
No
NSE
5,000
No
Office of Joint 
Commissioner 
of State Tax, 
Patna, Bihar
20,000
A penalty was imposed for the delayed 
payment of the GST liability difference 
between GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B for the 
financial year 2019-20.
No
Office of State 
Tax Officer, 
Jammu
1,442
A penalty was imposed for the delayed 
payment of the GST liability difference 
between GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B for the 
financial year 2019-20.
Yes
Settlement
-
-
-
-
-
Compounding 
Fee
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
-
-
-
-
Punishment
-
-
-
-
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
86
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed:
S. 
No.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
1.
Appeal Application No: AD011124006898A 
(November 21, 2024)
The Office of the State Taxes Officer, Circle-E, Jammu, 
Jammu and Kashmir
	
Note: Disallowance of ITC of ` 6,67,150/- on the ground that such ITC has been claimed in excess considering difference of ITC 
claimed in GSTR-3B vs GSTR-2A.
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide 
a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, Go Digit has an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy that outlines the Company’s commitment to preventing 
bribery and corruption in all its forms. This policy includes guidelines regarding acceptable gifts and hospitality, 
requires due diligence on third parties, and provides confidential reporting channels for suspected violations. 
Employees receive training on this policy, and any breaches may lead to disciplinary measures. 
	
The policy is currently available on the Company’s intranet.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conﬂict of interest:
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conﬂict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
-
Nil
-
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conﬂict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
-
Nil
-
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to ﬁnes / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conﬂicts of interest.
	
There were no instances of corruption or conflict of interest during the financial year 2024-25. Hence, no corrective 
actions pertaining to above mentioned parameters was necessitated by the Company during the year under review.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following 
format:
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of days of accounts payables
94
88
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
87
14
123
01
9.	
Open-ness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with 
loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Concentration 
of Purchases
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as % 
of total purchases
N.A.
N.A.
b.	
Number of trading houses where 
purchases are made from
N.A.
N.A.
c.	
Purchases from top 10 trading 
houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
N.A.
N.A.
Concentration 
of Sales
a.	
Sales to dealers / distributors as % of 
total sales
N.A.
N.A.
b.	
Number of dealers / distributors to 
whom sales are made
N.A.
N.A.
c.	
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors 
as % of total sales to dealers / 
distributors
N.A.
N.A.
Share of RPTs 
in
a.	
Purchases (Purchases with related 
parties / Total Purchases)
0
0
b.	
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total 
Sales)
0
0
c.	
Loans & advances (Loans & 
advances given to related parties / 
Total loans & advances)
N.A.
N.A.
d.	
Investments (Investments in related 
parties / Total Investments made)
N.A.
N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the ﬁnancial year:
S. 
No.
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by 
value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programmes
Nil
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conﬂict of interests involving Members of the Board? (Yes/
No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, the Company has adopted a comprehensive Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management, alongside 
its Corporate Philosophy and Governance Document, to proactively address potential conflicts of interest and to 
ensure adherence to all applicable legal provisions. This framework mandates that, prior to entering into any contract 
or arrangement with related parties, requisite disclosures from Directors and necessary approvals, as stipulated 
under prevailing laws, are duly obtained.
	
To further mitigate conflicts of interest, the Company takes declarations from the Directors at the time of appointment, 
on an annual basis and whenever any such interest is acquired. This practice serves to identify and manage any 
actual or potential conflicts of interest appropriately. The Company maintains a zero-tolerance approach towards 
unethical business practices and is committed to upholding robust ethical standards, particularly concerning conflicts 
of interest. Through these comprehensive policies and practices, the Company ensures diligent identification, 
disclosure, and management of conflicts of interest, thereby fostering a transparent and ethical workplace culture.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
88
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (“Capex”) investments in speciﬁc technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, 
respectively
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Details of improvements 
in environmental and 
social impacts
R&D
-
-
-
Capex
-
-
-
2.	
a. 	 Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Currently, Go Digit does not have policy and procedure for sustainable sourcing as the Company is into financial 
services sector, and it does not engage in the production or manufacturing of physical or tangible products in 
the conventional sense.
	
b. 	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Not Applicable
3. 	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, 
for: Not applicable owing to nature of Business
	
a. 	 Plastics (including packaging)
	
	
Not applicable considering the nature of the Company’s business
	
b. 	 E-waste
	
	
Not applicable considering the nature of the Company’s business
	
c. 	
Hazardous waste
	
	
Not applicable considering the nature of the Company’s business
	
d. 	 Other waste
	
	
Not applicable considering the nature of the Company’s business
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Given the nature of the business, EPR does not apply. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format.
	
 No, the Company has not conducted any LCA for their services.
S. 
No
NIC 
Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted	
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated in 
public	
domain (Yes/
No) If yes, provide the 
web- link.
Not Applicable
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
89
14
123
01
2.	
If there are any signiﬁcant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identiﬁed in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, 
brieﬂy describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
S. 
No
Name of Product /Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
S. 
No
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Not Applicable
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and 
safely disposed, as per the following format:
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial 
Year)
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including 
packaging)
Not applicable considering the nature of the Company’s business
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
	
Not applicable. 
	
The Company’s primary operations are in the financial services sector, and it does not engage in the production 
or manufacturing of physical or tangible products in the conventional sense. As such, there are no products or 
packaging to be reclaimed at the end of their life cycle.
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in 
their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity Beneﬁts
Paternity 
Beneﬁts
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
3452
3452
100.00
3452
100.00
0
0.00
3452
100.00
3452
100.00
Female
1082
1082
100.00
1082
100.00
1082
100.00
0
0.00
1082
100.00
Total
4534
4534
100.00
4534
100.00
1082
23.86
3452
76.14
4534
100.00
Other than Permanent employees
Male
42
42
100.00
42
100.00
0
0.00
42
100.00
42
100.00
Female
13
13
100.00
13
100.00
13
100.00
0
0.00
13
100.00
Total
55
55
100.00
55
100.00
13
23.63
42
76.36
55
100.00
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
90
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
 	
	
Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total 
revenue of the Company
0.097%
0.098%
2.	
Details of retirement beneﬁts, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
S. 
No
Benefits
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial 
Year)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers* 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers* 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
1
PF
100.00%
-
Y
100.00%
-
Y
2
Gratuity
100.00%
-
Y
100.00%
-
Y
3
ESI
4.00%
-
Y
9.00%
-
Y
4
Others- PT
80.00%
-
Y
82.00% 
-
Y
5
Others LWF
77.00% 
-
Y
81.00% 
-
Y
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, the Company’s offices and premises are designed to be accessible to individuals with disabilities, in line with the 
provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Go Digit has incorporated accessibility features such 
as ramps, elevators, and wheelchairs to ensure ease of access.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Go Digit upholds the principles of Equal Opportunity and is dedicated to offering fair employment opportunities, 
free from discrimination or harassment based on factors such as race, religion, gender, or any other characteristics. 
The Company ensures equal employment opportunities for all current and prospective employees and fosters a 
workplace that is free from discrimination, harassment, and bullying.
	
Equal Opportunity Policy is accessible to Go Digit’s employees and can be found on the Company’s intranet.
5.	
Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees#
Permanent workers*
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.00%
91.00% 
-
-
Female
54.28% 
91.00%
-
-
Total
91.62% 
91.00% 
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report. 
	
# Return to Work and Retention Rate are calculated as of March 31, 2025, for employees who had taken maternity and paternity 
leaves in financial year 2024-25.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
91
14
123
01
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief:
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent 
Workers
Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in 
this report.
Other than 
Permanent 
Workers
Permanent 
Employees
Go Digit has established a structured grievance redressal mechanism to address concerns raised 
by employees through designated channels such as the internal HR portal and official grievance 
email. The mechanism is governed by formal policies, including Whistleblower Policy and Gender 
Equality and Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy, ensuring fair and timely resolution. All 
grievances are reviewed by the concerned department, and appropriate actions are taken in 
line with Company guidelines. This process reflects Go Digit’s commitment to maintaining a 
transparent, inclusive, and supportive work environment.
Other than 
Permanent 
Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial Year)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category(A)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
association(s) or 
Union(B)
% 
(B / A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category(C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
association(s) or 
Union(D)
% 
(D / C)
Total Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total Permanent Workers*
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial Year)
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No.(B)
% B/A
No.(C)
% C/A
No.(E)
% E/D
No.(F)
% F/D
Employees
Male
3452 
3452 
100.00
3452 
100.00
3036 
3036 
100.00
3036 
100.00
Female
1082 
1082 
100.00
1082 
100.00
934 
934 
100.00
934 
100.00
Total
4534 
4534 
100.00
4534 
100.00
3970 
3970 
100.00
3970 
100.00
Workers*
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
92
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No.(B)
% B/A
Total (C)
No.(D)
% D/C
Employees
Male
3452 
3262 
94.50
3036 
2878 
94.80 
Female
1082 
1014 
93.72
934 
882 
94.43 
Total
4534
4276
94.31 
3970 
3760
94.71 
Workers*
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
10. 	 Health and safety management system:
	
a. 	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage of such system?
	
	
Yes, the Company is committed to employee health and safety by adhering to industry best practices. As part 
of its health and safety management initiatives, the Company provides regular training on fire safety and the 
use of firefighting equipment to all employees. Additionally, evacuation drills are conducted periodically at the 
Company’s offices.
	
b. 	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
	
Given the nature of the business (in financial services), the Company does not have exposure to / limited 
exposure to work related hazards. However, the entity has established formal processes to identify and assess 
risks on both a routine and non-routine basis, with specific attention to fire-related and occupational safety 
hazards. These include:
	
	
•	
Comprehensive risk assessments are conducted at regular intervals across all operational sites to identify 
potential hazards, including fire, electrical, ergonomic, and other occupational risks.
	
	
•	
Fire evacuation drills are conducted periodically to test the effectiveness of emergency response plans, 
enhance preparedness, and evaluate evacuation routes and staff response times.
	
c. 	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Yes/ No)
	
	
Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, this indicator is not applicable.
	
d. 	 Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes. 
	
	
Go Digit prioritizes employee wellbeing, health, and safety by offering a variety of engaging wellness initiatives. 
This year, some of the key programs included Workout Warriors, where employees shared workout videos 
and competed to complete the most sets of various exercise in a set time, and an Eye Check-up Camp held 
in Bengaluru, benefiting over 300 employees. The Company also provided free heart and lung check-ups to 
promote long-term health. Through the Marathon Wellness Program, employees participated in a marathon 
and earned gift vouchers as rewards. Employees have access to Employee Assistance Program (EAP) services, 
which offer consultations with general physicians, specialists, and psychologists. The Wow – 12 Sessions 
program features monthly wellness sessions covering fitness, nutrition, mindfulness, and expert advice. Go Digit 
also organized a Vaccination Drive offering flu shots for employees across India and hosted PCOS Awareness 
Week.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
93
14
123
01
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(per one million person-hours worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers*
-
-
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers*
-
-
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers*
-
-
High-consequence work-related injury 
or ill health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers*
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
	
Given the nature of the business (in financial services), the Company does not have exposure to / limited exposure to safety related 
incidents.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
Go Digit has implemented a range of measures to ensure a safe and healthy workplace for its employees. Regular 
fire drills, mock drills, and evacuation drills are conducted to prepare employees for emergency situations and ensure 
timely response. The Company follows all necessary workplace safety protocols, including maintaining fire safety 
equipment, emergency exits, and clear safety signage at its premises.
	
In addition to physical safety, Go Digit places strong emphasis on mental health and employee well-being. The 
Company offers access to counselling services, wellness programs, and mental health awareness initiatives to 
support employees’ emotional and psychological well-being.
	
To further reinforce safety, any workplace incident is tracked and investigated thoroughly. A structured process is 
in place for reporting and addressing such incidents, with corrective actions implemented as needed. These efforts 
reflect ongoing commitment to fostering a secure, healthy, and supportive work environment.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial 
Year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Health & Safety
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100.00
Working Conditions
100.00
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
94
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
signiﬁcant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of
	
a. 	 Employees (Y/N)
	
	
Yes. In the event of an employee’s death, a minimum amount of ₹20 lakhs or three times the employee’s CTC 
(capped at ₹1 crore) is provided. The nominee can claim the EDLI (Employee Deposit Linked Insurance) benefit 
after the employee’s passing, and gratuity is also paid accordingly.
	
b. 	 Workers (Y/N)
	
	
Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, this is not applicable.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by 
the value chain partners.
	
Go Digit includes clauses in its contracts with value chain partners that mandate compliance with all applicable 
statutory requirements, including the timely deduction and deposit of statutory dues. The Company conducts periodic 
audits in case of material outsourcing agreements.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable 
employment
Financial Year 
2025 
(Current 
Financial Year)
Financial Year 
2024 
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Financial Year 
2025 
(Current 
Financial Year)
Financial Year 
2024
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Employees
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Workers*
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No, the Company does not offer transition assistance programs to support continued employability or manage 
career transitions due to retirement or termination of employment.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
Nil
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signiﬁcant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
Not Applicable
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
95
14
123
01
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company recognizes key stakeholders based on their substantial impact and influence on business operations. 
Through thorough engagement, the Company evaluates the reciprocal effects between itself and various groups. 
This structured approach has helped identify essential groups, which include customers, communities/general public, 
channel partners, shareholders & investors, regulators and employees. Meeting stakeholder needs is central to our 
operations, and we utilize established communication channels to advocate and engage with all stakeholders.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identiﬁed as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
S. 
No
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identiﬁed as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
1
Customers
No
Various channels – both 
physical and digital
Frequent and 
need basis
•	
Policy coverages, claim 
processes and servicing 
related communications
•	
Insurance Education
•	
Communicating 
Simplicity in Insurance
•	
Awareness of Products 
and Processes
•	
Clarity and Openness
•	
Technological 
Advancements
•	
Customer Interaction
•	
Insights into  weather/
situational updates 
(floods/pandemic/
cyclones, etc)
2
Communities/ 
General Public
No
Various channels – both 
physical and digital
Frequent and 
need basis
•	
Insurance Education
•	
Communicating 
Simplicity in Insurance
•	
Awareness of Products 
and Processes
•	
Clarity and Openness
•	
Technological 
Advancements
•	
Customer Interaction
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
96
S. 
No
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identiﬁed as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
3
Channel 
Partners
No
Various channels – both 
physical and digital 
(partner portal, e-mail 
etc.)
Frequent and 
need basis
•	
Technological 
Advancements
•	
Awareness of Products 
and Processes
•	
Periodic trainings and 
updates
•	
Seeking compliance 
undertakings/
declarations
4
Shareholders 
& Investors
No
Various channels – both 
physical and digital 
inter- alia including 
•	
Annual report
•	
Stock Exchange 
Filings:
•	
Company’s Website
•	
Emails and Digital 
Communication
•	
Annual General 
Meetings (AGMs) 
/ Extraordinary 
General Meetings 
(EGMs)
•	
Press Releases 
•	
Media 
Announcements
•	
Investor/analyst 
meet and earnings 
call
Frequent and 
need basis
To foster transparency, build 
trust, and ensure informed 
decision-making by providing 
timely, accurate, and 
comprehensive information 
regarding the Company’s 
business operations, financial 
performance, governance, 
and strategic initiatives.
Through regular engagement, 
the Company seeks to:
•	
Keep shareholders and 
investors apprised of 
material developments, 
financial results, and 
significant corporate 
actions.
•	
Enable shareholders and 
investors to understand 
the Company’s business 
model, sustainability 
initiatives, and long-term 
value creation strategies.
•	
Facilitate meaningful 
dialogue to address 
queries, concerns, 
and feedback, 
thereby strengthening 
accountability and 
responsiveness.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
97
14
123
01
S. 
No
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identiﬁed as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
•	
Ensure compliance with 
regulatory disclosure 
requirements and uphold 
principles of fairness, 
equity, and good 
governance.
•	
Encourage participation 
of shareholders in 
key decision-making 
processes, including 
annual general meetings 
and voting on significant 
matters.
5
Regulators
No
Various channels – both 
physical and digital, 
including appointments 
to different committees 
established by the 
Regulatory Authorities.
• 	
Directives and 
circulars
• 	
Meetings / 
discussions
• 	
Press releases 
• 	
Submission of 
reports and returns
• 	
Workshops by 
regulators industry 
associations, 
forums, and 
working groups
On need basis
•	
Implementing regulatory 
requirements by 
providing periodic 
reports, disclosures, and 
data as mandated.
•	
Seek guidance and 
necessary approvals 
on business/operations, 
products, and other 
compliance-related 
matters.
•	
Proactively inform the 
regulator about any 
material developments, 
significant events, 
or contingency 
situations affecting the 
Company’s operations or 
policyholders.
Support the regulator’s 
initiatives towards promoting 
fair competition, policyholder 
interests, and industry best 
practices.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
98
S. 
No
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identiﬁed as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
6
Employees
No
Various channels – both 
physical and digital
•	
Townhall meetings
•	
HR portals and 
intranet
•	
Performance 
updates
•	
Workshop, learning 
and training 
interventions
•	
Wellness initiatives
•	
Internal 
publications, 
circulars, posters, 
videos, e-mails
•	
Employee 
Engagement & 
Satisfaction Survey
•	
Live interaction 
sessions
•	
Flexible & 
hybrid working 
arrangements
Frequent on 
daily basis
•	
Foster inclusive work 
environment
•	
Offer merit-basis 
opportunities
•	
Assessment of 
effectiveness of learning 
and development
•	
Fair remuneration 
practices;
•	
equal employment 
opportunities
•	
Effective performance 
management and 
recognition
•	
Career growth
•	
Diverse, inclusive and 
enabling work culture
•	
Work-life balance
•	
Fair Workplace
•	
Occupational Health, 
Safety and Well-Being
•	
Fair Pay
•	
Talent Attraction and 
Retention
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
At Go Digit, the process for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics involves several steps, ensuring that all relevant perspectives are considered in decision-making:
	
•	
Stakeholder Engagement: Go Digit actively engages with various stakeholders, including customers, employees, 
investors, regulators, and communities, to gather insights on key economic, environmental, and social issues. 
This engagement can occur through surveys, meetings, feedback forms, and consultations.
	
•	
Delegated Consultation: In certain cases, consultation on specific topics may be delegated to dedicated teams 
or committees within the organization. These teams collect and analyze feedback from stakeholders on relevant 
topics, ensuring thorough understanding and consideration of concerns.
	
•	
Feedback to the Board: Once feedback is gathered through consultations, it is compiled and presented to the 
Board by the relevant teams or committees. The information is shared through formal reports, presentations, 
or discussions in Board meetings. This ensures that the Board is well-informed about stakeholder perspectives 
and any potential implications for the Company’s operations, strategy, or policies.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
99
14
123
01
	
•	
Board Review and Action: The Board reviews the feedback and determines the necessary actions or adjustments 
to the Company’s practices, policies, or strategies. They ensure that economic, environmental, and social 
considerations are integrated into decision-making at the highest level.
	
•	
This process enables Go Digit to stay aligned with stakeholder interests while making responsible decisions 
related to sustainability, governance, and social responsibility.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identiﬁcation and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these 
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes, stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental and social 
topics at Go Digit.
	
The feedback gathered through stakeholder consultations plays a crucial role in identifying concerns related 
to sustainability and environmental impact. For instance, input received led to actions aimed at adopting digital 
documentation, minimizing paper usage, and improving energy efficiency in office spaces. Additionally, Go Digit 
streamlined its processes and introduced customer-friendly features in response to feedback highlighting the need 
for greater transparency and simplicity in understanding policies. These changes have allowed Go Digit to align its 
policies with stakeholder expectations while addressing significant environmental and social issues. For instance, 
brokers and customers are identified as the key stakeholders, who provides valuable insights that is contributed 
to the design of Parametric (or index based) solution which is a type of insurance that is correlated to a specific 
risk (here Air Quality Index and Heat Index) and ultimately to a financial loss for the insured. This is a “measurable 
index” related to a “scenario”, covers the probability of a predefined event happening instead of indemnifying actual 
loss incurred. This reflects the commitment and awareness of the Company towards the arising climate risks and is 
proactively catering to its stakeholders for the same.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
Go Digit recognizes the importance of engaging with and addressing the concerns of vulnerable and marginalized 
stakeholder groups. 
	
1.	
Inclusive Insurance Products: Go Digit has in place a specially designed product to cater to persons with 
disabilities, HIV/AIDS, and mental illness. Policies covering personal accident insurance are relevant for 
marginalized communities, including low-income groups to help their families cope with the loss of an earning 
member due to accidental death/disability. The Company also offers standard health product named “Arogya 
Sanjeevani (UIN: GODHLIP24179V022324) curated as per regulatory guidance which provides for standard 
coverages on hospitalization and health related aspects and can be availed by masses. 
	
2.	
Employee Diversity and Inclusion: Go Digit has worked to create a diverse and inclusive workforce by 
providing equal employment opportunities to marginalized groups. This includes hiring individuals from various 
backgrounds, including women, differently abled individuals, and people from economically disadvantaged 
sections of society.
	
3.	
Feedback and Continuous Improvement: Go Digit actively collects feedback from vulnerable groups to better 
understand their unique challenges and concerns. The Company uses this feedback to improve its policies, 
products, and services, ensuring that they are more inclusive and accessible to marginalized communities.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
100
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial 
Year)
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Permanent 
4534
4534
100.00
3970
3970
100.00
Other than permanent
83
83
100.00
39
39
100.00
Total Employees
4617
4617
100.00
4009
4009
100.00
Workers*
Permanent 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other than permanent
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total Workers
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial 
Year)
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No.(B)
% B/A
No.(C)
% C/A
No.(E)
% E/D
No.(F)
% F/D
Employees
Permanent
Male
3452
0
0.00
3452
100.00
3036
0
0.00
3036
100.00
Female
1082
0
0.00
1082
100.00
934
0
0.00
934
100.00
Other than permanent
Male
64
0
0.00
64
100.00
25
0
0.00
25
100.00
Female
19
0
0.00
19
100.00
14
0
0.00
14
100.00
Workers*
Permanent
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other than permanent
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
101
14
123
01
3.	
a. 	 Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format::
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
5***
-
2
4,11,10,163 **
Key Managerial 
Personnel
2****
89,27,144
1
4,11,10,163 **
Employees other 
than BoD and KMP
3,516
 6,42,433
1,101
5,39,991
Workers*
-
-
-
-
	
	
* Go Digit does not employ any workers; therefore, related information has not been included in this report
	
	
** Among the Board of Directors, remuneration is paid solely to Ms. Jasleen Kohli, who serves as the MD & CEO of the 
Company. The median remuneration figure comprises fixed pay, variable compensation for financial year 2023–24, and the 
employer’s contribution to the Provident Fund.
	
	
*** Sitting fees paid by Go Digit to the Independent Directors of the Company have not been included in the stated remuneration 
figures.
	
	
**** The remuneration of KMP for financial year 2024–25 is accounted for on a paid basis.
	
b. 	 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
19.33%
19.36% 
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
The Company has established a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior Management, 
which emphasizes contributions to society and human well-being. Furthermore, the Company adheres to the 
provisions of The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 2013.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Financial Year 2025 (Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 (Previous Financial 
Year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual 
Harassment
1
0
-
0
0
-
Discrimination at 
workplace 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human 
rights related 
issues 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
102
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013, in the following format:
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
1
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / 
workers
0.11%
0
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company has implemented a Code of Conduct to promote a harassment and intimidation-free workplace. 
Through the HR department and various committees, the Company is committed to investigating and addressing 
incidents related to POSH, as well as other complaints of discrimination or harassment. The Company ensures 
confidentiality for the respondent to protect them from any adverse consequences throughout the investigation of 
the incident. All parties involved in a complaint are reminded of the strict prohibition against retaliatory actions. In 
the event of retaliation, the Company takes swift and appropriate measures to resolve the matter and safeguard the 
complainant from any negative impact.
	
Employees raising concerns are protected under this policy for the duration of their employment. In cases involving 
POSH complaints, the complainant can request paid leave or a temporary transfer to another branch/office until 
the investigation is concluded. This option is available to either the complainant or the respondent, depending on 
the specific circumstances. The Whistleblower Policy also ensures protection against retaliation, victimization, or 
harassment for employees who report concerns, while maintaining the whistleblower’s anonymity.
	
Go Digit conducts regular training for all employees on Digit Academy, senior management, to foster a respectful 
and harassment-free work environment. This ensures that employees are aware of their rights and the mechanisms 
in place for reporting discrimination or harassment without fear of retribution. Additionally, Whistleblower Policy 
further safeguards employees who raise concerns by protecting them from retaliation, victimization, or harassment, 
while ensuring their anonymity.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, the Company has included Human Rights in business agreements and contracts, where relevant.
10.	 Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child Labour
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
Sexual Harassment
-
Discrimination at Workplace
-
Wages
-
	
* The Company strictly forbids the use of child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, and any form of discriminatory hiring 
practices. Go Digit is committed to complying with all labour laws and regulations at all locations.
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signiﬁcant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
	
No significant risks observed, therefore, not applicable.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
103
14
123
01
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modiﬁed / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
As there were no human rights issues recorded, therefore, no human rights grievances or complaints requires 
changes/ modification in new business processes.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Nil.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, the Company’s premises are accessible to differently abled visitors in accordance with the provisions of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
The Company expects its value chain partners to adhere to the 
same values, principles, and ethics that the Company follows in all 
its operations.
At present, no formal assessment has been carried out for value 
chain partners.
Discrimination at Workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signiﬁcant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Not applicable, as per question no 4.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:*
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Unit
Value
Unit
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
GJ
-
GJ
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
GJ
-
GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
GJ
-
GJ
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
-
GJ
-
GJ
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) 
12,754.09
GJ
11,276.65
GJ
Total fuel consumption (E)
-
GJ
-
GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
GJ
-
GJ
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources 
(D+E+F)
-
GJ
-
GJ
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
12,754.09
GJ
11,276.65
GJ
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total energy consumed/ Revenue from operations)
1.24
(GJ/` in Cr)
1.25
(GJ/` in Cr)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
25.63
(GJ/` in Cr 
adjusted for 
PPP)
25.84
(GJ/` in Cr 
adjusted for 
PPP)
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
104
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Unit
Value
Unit
Energy intensity in terms of physical output -    
2.16
(GJ/ Total 
no of 
employees)
2.22
(GJ/ Total 
no of 
employees)
Energy intensity (optional) –     
-
-
-
-
	
*Currently, Go Digit possesses fuel data for only three offices, whereas electricity data is available for 86 offices across India. 
As a result, fuel data is utilized solely for Scope 1 emissions calculations and is not included in the overall energy consumption 
calculations. However, the Company plans to start consolidating fuel data for the remaining offices in the near future.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identiﬁed as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme 
have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
Being a service-based industry, Go Digit is not identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India, hence this is not applicable.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Unit
Value
Unit
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
9,204
Kilolitres
11,049.80
Kilolitres
(ii)	
Groundwater
-
Kilolitres
-
Kilolitres
(iii)	 Third party water
3,702
Kilolitres
3,294
Kilolitres
(iv)	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
Kilolitres
-
Kilolitres
Others
-
Kilolitres
-
Kilolitres
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) 
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
12,906
Kilolitres
14,343.80
Kilolitres
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
12,906
Kilolitres
14,343.80
Kilolitres
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water 
consumption / Revenue from operations) 
1.26
(KL/` in Cr)
1.59
(KL/` in Cr)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
25.93
(KL/` in Cr 
adjusted for 
PPP)
32.87
(KL/` in Cr 
adjusted for 
PPP)
Water intensity in terms of physical output-  
2.18
(KL/ Total 
no of 
employees)
2.82
(KL/ Total 
no of 
employees)
Water intensity (optional) -  
-
-
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
105
14
123
01
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Value
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To surface water
-
-
	
-	
No treatment 
-
-
	
-	
With treatment 
-
-
(ii)	
To Groundwater
-
-
	
-	
No treatment 
-
-
	
-	
With treatment 
-
-
(iii)	 To Seawater
-
-
	
-	
No treatment 
-
-
	
-	
With treatment 
-
-
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
-
-
	
-	
No treatment 
-
-
	
-	
With treatment 
-
-
(v)	 Others 
-
-
	
-	
No treatment 
-
-
	
-	
With treatment 
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation:
	
Yes, Go Digit has adopted a zero liquid discharge system. The Company manages a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) 
that processes wastewater, which is then reused for toilet flushing and urinals. Furthermore, the recycled water is 
also utilized for gardening in the building’s common areas.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:*
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Please 
specify unit
Value
Please 
specify unit
NOx
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
SOx
Particulate matter (PM)
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
	
* Considering the nature of the business, the emissions such as ozone-depleting substances (ODS), Nitrogen oxides (NOX) and 
Sulphur oxides (SOX) and other air emissions are relatively not materially significant.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
106
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 Emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
25.59
26.56
Total Scope 2 Emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
2,536.65
2,242.80
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations)
(tCO2e/` in Cr)
0.249
0.252
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
(tCO2e/` in Cr 
adjusted for 
PPP)
5.15
5.20
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity in terms of physical output
(tCO2e/ Total no 
of employees)
0.43
0.38
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity (optional)
-
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency.
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details
	
The entity has not undertaken any specific projects aimed at reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions during the 
reporting period.
9. 	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
	
a. 	 Total Waste generated
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Value
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste
0.51
0.19
E-waste
0.39
0.003
Biomedical waste
-
-
Construction and demolition waste
-
-
Battery waste
-
-
Radioactive waste
-
-
Other Hazardous Waste
0.16
0.092
Other Non-Hazardous Waste
56.94
34.07
Total Waste Generated
58.00
34.35
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste 
generated / Revenue from operations) (MT/` in Cr)
0.0056
0.0038
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
107
14
123
01
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Value
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated 
/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(MT/` in Cr adjusted for PPP)
0.12
0.08
Waste intensity in terms of physical output - (MT/ 
Total no of employees)
0.01
0.01
Waste intensity (optional)
-
-
	
b. 	 For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Total Waste
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other 
recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste: Total Waste
(i)	
Recycled
-
-
(ii)	
Re-used
-
-
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
-
-
	
	
While Go Digit disposes of waste through an authorized vendor, it is uncertain whether the vendor recycles, reuses, or recovers 
the waste.
	
c. 	
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Total Waste
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric 
tonnes)
Category of waste: Total Waste
(i)	
Incineration
-
-
(ii)	
Landfilling
-
-
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
-
-
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by 
your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes
	
Go Digit has undertaken several initiatives to enhance its waste management practices, including:
	
1.	
E-Waste Management
	
	
•	
Collaborates with authorized recyclers (e.g., Samarthanam Trust) for responsible disposal and recycling of 
outdated electronics.
	
	
•	
Conducts annual audits to verify proper disposal and secure data erasure before recycling.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
108
	
2.	
Reuse and Donation of Electronics
	
	
•	
Donates or resells functioning electronic items to minimize waste generation.
	
3.	
Paperless Operations
	
	
•	
Predominantly digital workflows have significantly reduced paper usage.
	
	
•	
Promotes digital signatures, e-KYC processes, and cloud-based document storage.
	
4.	
Office Waste Segregation
	
	
•	
Provides separate bins for wet, dry, and e-waste across all office spaces.
	
	
•	
Conducts regular awareness sessions to educate employees on proper segregation.
	
5.	
Reduction of Single-Use Plastics
	
	
•	
Phased out single-use plastics in office pantries and during events.
	
	
•	
Encourages use of reusable or biodegradable items for utensils and packaging.
	
6.	
Vendor Engagement
	
	
•	
Promotes sustainable and compliant waste management practices among vendors and facility partners.
	
7.	
Water Waste Management (where STPs are available)
	
	
•	
Utilizes Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) to recycle greywater for non-potable uses such as cleaning, 
sanitation, and landscaping—achieving zero liquid discharge.
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No
Location of 
operations/
offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are being 
complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, 
if any.
-
-
-
-
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year:
S. 
No
Name and 
brief details 
of project
EIA 
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web 
link
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non compliances, in the following format:
S. 
No
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
noncompliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken 
by regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control boards or by 
courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
Not Applicable
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
109
14
123
01
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
Consolidated data for water stress area
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the Area: Not Applicable
	
(ii)	 Nature of operations: Not Applicable
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Value
Unit
Value
Unit
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface Water
Not Applicable
(ii)	
Groundwater 
(iii)	 Third party water 
(iv)	 Seawater / desalinated water
(v)	 Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) 
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed /
turnover)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) entity
(i)	
To surface water
Not Applicable
	
-	
No treatment 
	
-	
With treatment 
(ii)	
To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment 
	
-	
With treatment 
(iii)	 To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment 
	
-	
With treatment 
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment 
	
-	
With treatment 
(v)	 Others 
	
-	
No treatment 
	
-	
With treatment 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
110
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 Emissions Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Go Digit is not currently calculating Scope 3 
emissions.
CO2
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
CH4
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
N20
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
HFCs
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
PFCs
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
SF6
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
NF3
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 3 emissions 
per rupee of turnover
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/
rupee
Total Scope 3 emission 
intensity (optional)  
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
No, independent assessment has been carried out by an external agency
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention and remediation 
activities
	
The Company does not have any operations in ecologically sensitive areas and therefore, this indicator is not 
applicable 
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the 
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. 
No
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided 
along with summary)
Outcome of the 
initiative
-
-
-
-
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Yes. The Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCP/DR) policy of Go Digit General Insurance Limited ensures 
the rapid restoration of critical operations during disruptions like natural disasters, cyber incidents, or pandemics. It 
outlines recovery strategies, roles, and responsibilities, including use of AWS/Azure cloud for redundancy and VPN-
enabled remote work. Key business functions must resume within defined RTO/RPO targets. A structured team-led 
response, regular BCP testing, and ongoing staff training ensure resilience. Alternate sites in Bengaluru and Pune 
are prepared for failover, ensuring uninterrupted services to customers and partners. The plan is aligned with IRDAI 
cybersecurity guidelines.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation 
or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Not Applicable
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts
	
The Company has not conducted any assessment of value chain partners during the reporting period.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
111
14
123
01
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
One
	
b. 	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to
S. 
No
Name of the trade and industry chambers 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1.
General Insurance Council
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Nil
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
S. 
No
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by 
Board (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, if 
available
Nil
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
S. 
No
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
Given the nature of the business, Social Impact Assessment (SIA) is not applicable.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity, in the following format:
S. 
No
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected 
Families(PAFs)
% of PAF 
covered by 
R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the Financial 
Year  (In `)
Given the nature of the business, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is not applicable.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community
	
Go Digit is dedicated to maintaining transparency and accountability across all its operations. The Company has 
established a comprehensive grievance redressal policy and a whistleblower policy to ensure concerns are addressed 
fairly and promptly. While these policies primarily focus on internal stakeholders, Go Digit is also open to feedback 
from the wider community. The Company fosters open communication and continually seeks ways to improve its 
engagement with external stakeholders, upholding its commitment to responsible business practices. Individuals can 
reach out to the Company via email at hello@godigit.com. Upon receiving a grievance, Go Digit reviews the details 
and contact the complainant. After thoroughly assessing the situation, the Company provides suitable resolution.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
112
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024
(Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
79.00%
87.00%
Directly from within India
100.00%
100.00%
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed 
on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Rural
0.00%
0.03%
Semi-urban
0.02%
0.06%
Urban
9.63%
10.72%
Metropolitan
90.36%
89.19%
	
Place categorised as per RBI Classification System - rural/semi-urban/urban/metropolitan and based on Census 2011.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
S. 
No
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Given the nature of the business, a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) is not applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
S. 
No
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent(In `)
There are currently no CSR projects underway in the designated aspirational 
districts identified by government authorities.
3.	
a. 	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No
	
b. 	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not Applicable
	
c. 	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not Applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge
S. 
No
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/Acquired
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes /No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
S. 
No
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
113
14
123
01
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
Go Digit acknowledges the importance of contributing to society and remains committed to creating a positive 
impact on communities. During the financial year 2024 -25, the Company was not mandated to allocate CSR funds 
due to inadequate profits. 
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Company has established and maintained a centralized complaint process aimed at achieving “Total Customer 
Satisfaction”. This system ensures that all customer complaints, regardless of their nature or origin, are managed 
efficiently and resolved to the satisfaction of the complainant. By centralizing this process, the Company aims to 
streamline communication channels, minimize response times, and enhance the overall customer experience.
	
The complaint handling is carried out by a dedicated team who are properly trained to manage complaints received 
through various channels, such as the Bima Bharosa Portal, the National Consumer Helpline, and the Department of 
Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances. The complaint-handling process will conduct a comprehensive root-
cause analysis to identify and address the underlying factors contributing to recurrent issues. 
	
The Company is committed to minimizing grievances progressively and provide a delightful experience to customers. 
Towards this, the Company has instituted processes like adopting consumer-friendly practices, enhancing 
transparency in complaint-handling procedures, and empowering customers with accessible and responsive 
grievance resolution mechanisms.
	
With a view to provide prompt and efficient resolution of complaints, the Company has in place an escalation process 
which is detailed on the website: https://www.godigit.com/claim/grievance-redressal-procedure. This process 
provides a step-by-step guide to customers to raise their concerns:
	
1.	
Customers can register their grievances through various channels, including emails, social media handles, toll-
free phone numbers, websites, and letters. The Company has designated a dedicated email address ‘hello@
godigit.com’ for customer support.
	
2.	
If a customer is dissatisfied with the resolution provided, they may escalate to the next level by sending an email 
to ‘Grievance@godigit.com’.
	
3.	
If the customer remains unsatisfied with the offered solution, they can escalate the matter further by sending an 
email directly to the Grievance Redressal Officer (gro@godigit.com).
	
In addition to the above, the Company has in place a dedicated helpline (1800-258-4242) and email id (seniors@
godigit.com) to look into any concerns received from senior citizens and information about this is published on the 
website. 
	
Through its ongoing initiatives to optimize operations, launch relevant products and digital innovations, and develop 
decentralized service solutions, the Company has significantly elevated customer experience and satisfaction.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Given, the nature of business, turnover of products 
is not applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
114
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Financial Year 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
Remarks
Financial Year 2024 
(Previous Financial Year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Advertising
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Cyber-security 
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Delivery of essential 
services
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Unfair Trade 
Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other
2606 *
0
-
1805
0
-
	
* Of the 1,987 customer complaints, 177 were related to Go Digit General Insurance Limited (GDGIL) allegedly accessing CKYC 
records without customer consent. Preliminary investigation found that these accesses occurred on December 10–11, 2024, 
via an insurance broker’s website integrated with GDGIL’s API (API was to streamline KYC process for customer onboarding, a 
common industry practice). Said API connection was suspended immediately. An audit was conducted by a CERT-IN empanelled 
auditor which led to findings suggesting role of a malicious actor who exploited a third-party database containing PAN, date 
of birth information (not from GDGIL) and used it to trigger unauthorized CKYC lookups through the broker’s website. Audit 
findings were shared with relevant authorities and a police complaint was also filed. There was no material impact on Company’s 
operations, and came across as a broader issue affecting the industry.
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes, the Company has established a framework and policy addressing Cyber Security and Data Privacy risks, which 
has been approved by the Board.   
	
The Company follows an information security framework that aims to establish, implement, monitor, and continuously 
enhance its information security stance, with a strong focus on protecting customer data and ensuring data security. 
The Company complies with the ISO 27001:2022 Information Security Management System standard, as well as 
relevant regulatory guidelines. The Board level Risk Management Committee oversees IT security and cyber security 
related matters. Specialized teams manage cyber security initiatives and operations related to digital advancements. 
The Company regularly conducts cyber security awareness programmes for all employees.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services
	
There were no issues that required any actions as mentioned above during the reviewed year.  
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
115
14
123
01
7. 	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a. 	 Number of instances of data breaches
	
	
0
	
b. 	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
	
0
	
c. 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
	
Information regarding all products and services offered by Go Digit can be accessed on the Company’s official 
website: https://www.godigit.com. Employee-related policies will be uploaded to the intranet, while other policies will 
be made available on the website.
	
Customers can also access various details on Digit Customer App (available on Google Play Store and Apple App 
Store), through AI-enabled WhatsApp self-servicing bot Aria (+917026061234), toll-free number (1800-103-4448), 
email (hello@godigit.com).
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services
	
The Company has taken various measures to educate and inform consumers about the safe and responsible use of 
its products and services. These measures include:
	
•	
Clear Communication: Creating simple documentation written in clear, “jargon-free” English that, for most of 
the products, is accompanied by summaries that explain coverage in a nutshell.
	
•	
Customer Awareness Initiatives: Company carries out various awareness campaigns and educational 
programs to emphasize the importance of availing insurance, road safety which inter alia helps in achieving the 
objective of responsible use of its insurance products and services. These initiatives are aimed at ensuring that 
customers fully comprehend the benefits, limitations, and obligations of their policies.
	
•	
Digital Resources: The Company offers a variety of online materials, such as FAQs, blogs, user guides to help 
customers in navigating to the desired page/product/service. These resources help customers understand how 
to maximize the benefits of their policies and avoid potential misuse.
	
•	
Sharing documents that come in handy: The Company shares various documents like customer information 
sheets, renewal notices, local updates regarding the weather/emerging situations to help customers manage 
any exigencies with ease and comfort.
	
•	
Proactive Publications: The Company publishes the Transparency Report on a bi-annual basis giving insights 
into numerous aspects ranging from claims, developments/innovations introduced, process simplifications, 
glimpses of business performance, etc.
	
•	
Customer Support: A dedicated customer support team is available to assist and educate customers  on how to 
use their insurance services responsibly, ensuring they are well-informed about their rights and responsibilities.
	
•	
Compliance with Regulatory Bodies: The Company takes steps to ensure adherence to all relevant guidelines 
for educating consumers about safe usage, ensuring compliance with industry standards and consumer 
protection regulations.
	
By implementing these measures, the Company aims to build a knowledgeable and responsible customer base, 
empowering individuals to make informed decisions and use their products and services safely.   
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
116
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services
	
The Company strives to reduce grievances by learning from past experiences through root cause analysis. The 
Company has a strong governance framework for customer and policyholder services. Additionally, in the event of 
adverse weather forecasts, the Company sends alerts to policyholders before the anticipated event, helping them 
prepare for potential disasters and minimize damage to people and property. The Company also sends follow-up 
notifications after the event to provide effective claims assistance. During major incidents, the Company sets up local 
claims desks to process claims smoothly.
	
The significance of information security, cyber security, and fraud controls is crucial in today’s technological 
landscape. These areas are central to the IT framework, ensuring that disruptions and security threats that could 
jeopardize customer data and business operations are minimized. As such, cyber security, data protection, and fraud 
prevention are top priorities in the Company’s risk management strategy.
	
In compliance with IRDAI regulations, the Company has instituted a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) which 
anticipates potential disruptive events, assesses their likelihood and impact through business impact analysis, and 
takes measures to mitigate the risks of any disruption, ensuring continued customer satisfaction.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or 
the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. 
	
The Company maintains transparency and fairness in all dealings with customers. None of its products conceal any 
relevant information that customers need to make well-informed decisions. Through its policies and procedures, the 
Company clearly communicates customer rights, Company commitments, grievance redressal mechanisms, and the 
options available with the customers to file complaints with the Ombudsman– all of this underscores Company’s 
commitment to ensure fair practices and bring in transparency in the products and services offered. 
	
Additionally, the Company regularly conducts surveys to stay connected with customers, continuously improving and 
providing them with a seamless experience. The information presented in the insurance policy documents complies 
with all relevant regulatory guidelines.
	
The Company publishes the Transparency Report on a bi-annual basis giving insights into numerous aspects ranging 
from claims, developments/innovations introduced, process simplifications, glimpses of business performance, etc.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
117
14
123
01
With respect to the operations of Go Digit General 
Insurance Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 
March 31,2025 and results thereof, the management of 
the Company confirms and declares that:
1.	
The Company obtained Regulatory approval to 
undertake General Insurance business on September 
20, 2017, from the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) and holds a 
valid certificate of registration.
2.	
We certify that all dues payable to the statutory 
authorities have been duly paid except where the 
Company has preferred appeals.
3.	
The shareholding pattern and the transfer of shares 
through electronic mode is in accordance with the 
statutory and regulatory requirements.
4.	
The Management has not invested any funds of 
holders of policies in India, directly or indirectly outside 
India.
5.	
The required solvency margin under the Insurance 
Act, 1938 has been maintained.
6.	
We certify that the values of all the assets have 
been reviewed on the date of Balance Sheet and 
in management’s belief, the assets set forth in the 
Balance Sheet are shown in the aggregate at amounts 
not exceeding their realizable or market value, 
under the several headings – “Loan”, “Investments”, 
“Outstanding Premiums”, “Interest, Dividends and 
Rents outstanding”, “Interest, Dividends and Rents 
accruing but not due”, “Amounts due from other 
entities carrying on insurance business”, “Sundry 
Debtors”, “Cash” and the several items specified 
under “Other Advances”..
7.	
As a general insurer, the Company is exposed to a 
variety of risks. Some of the key risks are provided 
hereunder:
	
a)	
Reinsurance Risk (Credit Risk) is a risk of default 
of Reinsurer (failure to perform their obligation) 
in the event of claim for reinsurance ceded. This 
risk is managed by ensuring the minimum credit 
rating of the reinsurer while placement and its 
regular monitoring.
	
b)	
ALM Risk is the risk of negative impact on the 
entity’s net asset value and the risk of entity’s 
inability to meet financial obligations when they 
fall due. The risk may be managed by ensuring 
that there are adequate assets, returns and 
Management Report 
for the Financial Year ended March 31,2025
liquidity to cover potential liability that arises in 
the future.
	
c)	
The investment portfolio is also diversified 
within limits set under the IRDAI Regulations. CA 
Firm performs concurrent audit of Company’s 
investment function and reports to Audit 
Committee on quarterly basis.
	
d)	
The Company has appointed an Internal Auditor 
who audits the key operational functions of the 
Company periodically as per the approved Audit 
Plan. The Company also has Board approved 
an Anti Fraud Policy and Whistle Blower 
mechanism in place to identify and mitigate 
various operational risks.
	
e)	
Taxation Risks are risks related to various tax 
assessments and filings which include Income 
tax and Goods and Service Tax (GST). These are 
mitigated by periodic monitoring of open items, 
opinions from tax consultants for tax positions 
to be adopted, quarterly update to the Risk 
management committee on various ongoing tax 
assessment and inquires.
	
f)	
The 
Company 
has 
a 
Risk 
Management 
Committee of the Board of Directors which 
advises the Board on the risk exposures and the 
actions taken to manage the same.
8.	
The Company does not have insurance operations in 
any other country.
9.	
The settlement time for claims depends on various 
factors pertinent to various lines of business, such as 
cause of loss, the nature of claim, etc. Typically, claims 
which result in total or partial destruction of assets 
or records (such as those caused by Acts of God), 
those where adequate documentation to assess the 
claims are awaited and those which are the subject 
matter of judicial processes (such as Motor Third 
Party claims) tend to have longer settlement times, 
which are beyond the control of the Company. The 
Company has internal processes for regular review of 
such claims paid and outstanding. Ageing of claims 
indicating the trends in average claim settlement time 
during the preceding five years is given in Annexure 
1 and ageing analysis of claims registered and not 
settled (excluding provision for IBNR / IBNER and 
claims relating to inward re-insurance from terrorism 
pool) is given in Annexure 2 to this Report.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
118
10.	 We certify that the values, as shown in the Balance 
Sheet, of the investments which consists of fixed 
income securities, equity shares and mutual fund 
units have been valued as per accounting policies 
prescribed by IRDAI. For fixed income securities, the 
market value is based on procedure issued by Fixed 
Income and Money Market and Derivative Dealers 
Association (FIMMDA). The investments in the Mutual 
Funds are valued at the Net Asset Values (NAV) of 
these Mutual Funds as on the Balance Sheet date. 
Investment in listed equity shares and ETFs is valued 
as per price quoted on the National Stock Exchange 
on India (NSE). Where prices are not available on 
NSE, price quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange 
are considered.
11.	 Investment including Cash as at March 31, 2025 
amounts to ₹ 19,703 crores. The fixed income 
securities are mainly approved Government securities 
and bonds. The primary aim while investing is to 
generate adequate return while minimizing risk. The 
emphasis is also on the liquidity of investments to 
ensure that the Company meets all its obligations 
related to claims and other operations. The Company 
monitors the cash position on daily basis and seasonal 
liquidity needs are considered while planning 
maturities of investments in respect of all assets. 
None of the fixed income investments have had any 
delays in the servicing of interest or principal amounts. 
Based on the past track record, the Management has 
reasonable confidence in the quality and expected 
performance of all the investments, in line with the 
objectives.
12.	 The management of the Company certifies that:
	
a)	
in the preparation of financial statements, the 
applicable accounting standards, principles and 
policies have been followed along with proper 
explanations relating to material departures, if 
any;
	
b)	
the management has adopted accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent to give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the company at the end of the 
financial year and of the operating profit and of 
the net profit of the company for the year.
	
c)	
the 
management 
has 
taken 
proper 
and 
sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of the Insurance Act 1938 
/ Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding the 
assets of the company and for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities.
	
d)	
the management has prepared the financial 
statements on a going concern basis.
	
e)	
the management has ensured that an internal 
audit system commensurate with the size and 
nature of the business exists and is operating 
effectively.
13.	 The schedule of payments which have been made 
to individuals, firms, companies and organizations in 
which the Directors of the Company are interested is 
given as Annexure 3.
14.	 The 
company 
currently 
has 
no 
subsidiaries, 
associates, joint ventures, or other organizational 
arrangements in place.
For and on behalf of the Board
Kamesh Goyal
Mahender Kumar Garg
Chairman
DIN - 01816985
Director
DIN - 00081454
Ravi Khetan
Jasleen Kohli
Chief Financial Officer
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
DIN - 07634112
Tejas Saraf
Company Secretary
Membership No. ACS 26225
Place – Bengaluru
Date – April 28, 2025
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
119
14
123
01
Annexure 1 – Details of average claim settlement time
 (For the years ended March 31)
Line of Business
2025
2024
2023
 No. of
Claims
Average
Settlement
Days
Amount
Settled
 No. of
Claims
Average
Settlement
Days
Amount
Settled
 No. of
Claims
Average
Settlement
Days
Amount
Settled
Crop
-
12
49,543
-
55
39,825
82
41
2,628
Engineering
213
31
3,061
213
33
1,634
214
88
941
Fire
230
116
31,919
225
191
13,573
138
141
10,366
Health
1,99,367
14
1,27,002
1,49,009
17
1,06,252
73,336
17
46,214
Marine Cargo
999
16
2,793
1,235
44
2,114
1,074
86
2,002
Marine Other than Cargo
-
8
1
-
14
0*
-
-
-
Motor OD
6,43,722
17
1,43,479
5,43,018
18
1,07,603
3,58,588
19
71,497
Motor TP
8,232
341
76,631
7,970
308
69,727
5,029
355
38,424
Others
42,625
12
14,368
57,546
15
24,967
30,977
12
40,677
Personal Accident
4,541
23
9,408
2,349
31
8,030
604
62
4,665
Travel
14,174
6
920
4,120
10
246
4,880
9
286
Workmen Compensation
1,575
119
3,050
1,051
110
1,865
671
93
1,237
Line of Business
2022
2021
 No. of
Claims
Average
Settlement
Days
Amount
Settled
 No. of
Claims
Average
Settlement
Days
Amount
Settled
Crop
48
2
732
63
37
12,768
Engineering
155
128
266
52
103
58
Fire
809
256
10,661
230
180
3,988
Health
26,903
23
16,675
6,262
34
5,114
Marine Cargo
57
79
411
77
56
76
Marine Other than Cargo
-
-
-
-
-
-
Motor OD
2,25,008
18
48,113
1,40,403
24
28,077
Motor TP
2,860
251
15,754
1,311
235
5,899
Others
9,008
18
7,887
6,713
18
2,563
Personal Accident
270
53
2,334
75
96
93
Travel
1,899
27
69
4,177
2
129
Workmen Compensation
405
82
1,442
64
71
64
*Figures are below the rounding off norms adopted by the company
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
120
Annexure 2 – Details of Gross claims outstanding –
As at March 31,2025
Amount in ₹ lakhs
Product
Fire
Engineering
Motor OD
Motor TP
Period
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
0 - 30 days
27
2,674
39
154
7,937
4,349
859
9,311
31 days - 6 months
58
15,880
69
2,481
2,782
4,608
3,437
36,920
6 months – 1 year
23
9,497
46
1,922
123
546
3,035
38,294
1 year – 5 years
17
62,634
9
4,506
440
1,251
10,430
1,14,057
5 Years and Above
 -
8,877
 -
10
72
186
312
3,925
Total
125
99,562
163
9,073
11,354
10,940
18,073
2,02,507
Product
Health
Marine Cargo
Personal Accident
Aviation
Period
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
0 - 30 days
4,034
5,105
110
135
126
2,463
25
350
31 days - 6 months
1,523
1,377
233
1,215
256
4,244
3
42
6 months – 1 year
266
1,496
65
225
102
924
-
-
1 year – 5 years
194
552
4
381
26
334
-
-
5 Years and Above
-
-
 -
0*
-
-
-
-
Total
6,017
8,530
412
1,957
510
7,965
28
392
Product
Crop
Marine Other than 
Cargo
Others
Travel
Period
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
0 - 30 days
-
49
-
-
356
844
86
33
31 days - 6 months
-
-
-
2
395
2,403
29
72
6 months – 1 year
-
-
-
-
147
5,788
1
5
1 year – 5 years
-
-
-
-
26
531
2
19
5 Years and Above
-
-
-
-
1
3
1
2
Total
0
49
0
2
925
9,569
119
131
Product
Travel
Workmen Compensation
Total
Period
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
Count
Amt
0 - 30 days
86
33
220
405
13,819
25,873
31 days - 6 months
29
72
358
924
9,143
70,166
6 months – 1 year
1
5
20
256
3,828
58,952
1 year – 5 years
2
19
17
195
11,165
1,84,461
5 Years and Above
1
2
-
-
386
13,001
Total
119
131
615
1,780
38,341
3,52,453
*Figures are below the rounding off norms adopted by the company
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
121
14
123
01
Annexure 3 – Details of payments to individuals, firms, companies and organizations in which directors 
are interested during the year ended March 31,2025 –
 (₹ in lakhs)
Sl. No
Entity in 
which 
director is 
interested
Name of 
Director
Interested as
Description of Transaction - 
Revenue/(Expense)
Payment 
during the 
year
Payment 
during the 
previous 
year
1
Go Digit 
Infoworks 
Services 
Private 
Limited
Kamesh 
Goyal
Chairman
Payment of FMS and Technology 
Service charges
 942
 2,255
Reimbursement of Expenses 
incurred by Holding company
 54
 25
Policy issued (Premium received)
 8
 9
ESOP Cost allocation
 149
 56
Seat sharing recovery
 6
 5
IPO Expenses paid to Holding 
company
 1,167
-
Purchase of Fixed Asset
 36
-
 4
Oben 
Ventures LLP
Kamesh 
Goyal
Chairman
Reimbursement of Expenses
0*
-
*Figures are below the rounding off norms adopted by the company
 The amount and absolute number is ₹ 12,145.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
122
To the Members of Go Digit General Insurance Limited
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements 
of GO DIGIT GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (“the 
Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2025 the Revenue Accounts of fire, marine 
and miscellaneous insurance (collectively known as the 
‘Revenue Accounts’), the Profit and Loss Account and 
the Receipts and Payments Account for the year then 
ended, the schedules annexed thereto, a summary of 
the significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
notes thereon (hereinafter referred to as the “financial 
statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, we report 
that the aforesaid financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with the requirements of Accounting 
Standards as specified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read with the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 as amended 
(‘Accounting Standards’) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including relevant provisions 
of the Insurance Act, 1938, the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India Act, 1999 (the 
“IRDAI Act”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, to the extent considered relevant and 
appropriate for the purpose of these financial statements 
and which are not inconsistent with the accounting 
principles as prescribed in the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority (Actuarial, finance and 
investment functions of insurers) Regulations, 2024 (the 
“Regulations”) and orders/directions/circulars issued by 
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (“IRDAI” / “Authority”), to the extent applicable 
(“Applicable Accounting Framework”), give a true and 
fair view in conformity with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India as applicable to insurance 
companies:
a.	
in the case of the Balance Sheet, of the state affairs of 
the Company as at March 31, 2025;
b.	
in the case of the Revenue Accounts, of the operating 
profit/surplus in the Fire business, Marine business 
and Miscellaneous businesses for the year ended on 
that date;
Independent Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements 
for the year ended march 31, 2025
c.	
in the case of the Profit and Loss Account, of the profit 
for the year ended on that date; and
d.	
in the case of the Receipts and Payments Account, of 
the receipts and payments for the year ended on that 
date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143 (10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the financial statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India together with the ethical requirements that is 
relevant to our audit of the financial statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the Code 
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our 
audit of the financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. For each matter below, our description 
of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that 
context.
We have determined the matters described below to be 
the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. 
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements section of our report, including in relation 
to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the 
performance of procedures designed to respond to our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, 
including the procedures performed to address the 
matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on 
the accompanying financial statements.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
123
14
123
01
Sl. 
No
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
1.
Claims Settlement and provisioning
The estimation of insurance contract liabilities is 
a significant area of judgment for the Company 
and has been identified as a key audit matter 
due to inherent estimation uncertainty and the 
material amounts involved.
Insurance claims constitute a major area 
of expense, and the process of estimating 
liabilities—including outstanding claims, claims 
incurred but not reported (IBNR), and claims 
incurred but not enough reported (IBNER)—
requires complex actuarial and management 
judgments.
Provisions for claims are initially recorded 
upon intimation and are revised based on 
surveyor reports, communication from the lead 
co-insurer in cases of co-insurance inward, 
and other emerging information. The final 
settlement amount may differ significantly from 
the initial estimates.
A range of actuarial methods and assumptions 
are used to determine these liabilities, including 
assumptions regarding the expected settlement 
amount and timing of claims.
The estimation process is subject to high levels 
of uncertainty due to the variability in claim 
development patterns and the potential for 
late-reported or under-reported claims.
Our audit procedures included among others, the following:
•	
We tested the design operative effectiveness of controls 
around the due and intimated claims recording process. We 
additionally carried out the following substantive testing.
•	
Assessed and tested the operational effectiveness of key 
controls over the claims handling and reserving process, 
including controls for the completeness and accuracy of the 
incurred claims.
•	
Substantive tests were performed on the amounts recorded 
for a sample of Outstanding Claims, which are material to 
assess whether claims are appropriately estimated and 
recorded;
•	
Verified for selected samples, claim payments and the 
corresponding provisions recorded by verifying supporting 
documentation such as payment evidence, surveyors’ 
reports, and statements of account received from the 
Cedant Company.
•	
For the claim cases which have been incurred but not 
reported and cases in which claims have been reported but 
not enough reported, these cases have been considered by 
the Company’s Appointed Actuary. The actuarial valuation 
of liability in respect of Claims Incurred but Not Reported 
(IBNR) and those Incurred but Not Enough Reported 
(IBNER) as at March 31, 2025, is as certified by the 
Company’s Appointed Actuary and we have relied upon 
on the Company’s Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this 
regard;
•	
Tested the completeness and accuracy of underlying data 
provided by the Management to the Appointed Actuary on 
a sample basis;
•	
Obtained written representations from management on 
valuation of IBNR and claim processing.
2
Valuation of Investments (Refer Schedule 
8 and 8A of the financial statements)
The Company’s investment portfolio consists of 
Policyholders’ investments and Shareholders’ 
investments which are valued in accordance 
with accounting policy framed as per the extant 
regulatory guidelines.
The valuation of all investments is as per the 
investment policy framed by the Company as 
per the requirements contained in the IRDAI 
Financial Statements Regulations. The valuation 
methodology specified in these aforesaid 
regulations is applied by the Company for each 
class of investment which includes various 
measurement techniques as described in note 
16 to the accompanying financial statements.
Our audit procedures included among others, the following:
•	
Reviewed the accounting policies used by the Company 
for accounting and disclosing Investments for compliance 
with the accounting framework and applicable IRDAI 
regulations.
•	
Obtained 
independent 
external 
confirmations 
for 
investments as at balance sheet date from the Custodians 
and Depository Participants to confirm the units of 
securities.
•	
On a test check basis, recomputed valuation of different 
classes of investments to assess appropriateness of the 
valuation methodologies with reference to IRDAI Investment 
Regulations.
•	
Examined movement and appropriateness of accounting in 
Fair Value Change account for specific investments.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
124
Sl. 
No
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
The valuation of these investments was 
considered one of the matters of material 
significance in the financial statements due to 
the materiality of the total value of investments 
to the financial statements and thereby 
identified as a key audit matter for current year 
audit.
•	
Assessed the adequacy of internal controls, evaluated 
the design and tested the operating effectiveness of such 
controls for initial recognition, measurement, and disclosure 
of investments as on the reporting date as per applicable 
regulations.
•	
Reviewed 
the 
Company’s 
impairment 
policy 
and 
assessment of impairment
•	
Obtained written representations from management on 
compliance of valuation of investments with the regulations.
Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon:
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of other 
information. The other information comprises the Directors 
Report and Management Discussion and Analysis but 
does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information and, 
in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or 
our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent 
material misstatements, we are required to determine 
whether there is a material misstatement of the other 
information. If, based on the work we have performed, 
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add 
or draw attention to in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Management and Those 
charged with governance for the financial 
statements:
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with respect to the 
preparation of these financial statements that give a true 
and fair view of the financial position, underwriting results, 
financial performance and cash flows of the Company in 
accordance with the Applicable Accounting Framework.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the financial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, management 
and board of directors are responsible for assessing 
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to 
do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing 
the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level assurance, but it is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, that 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial 
statements.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
125
14
123
01
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgment 
and 
maintain 
professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal financial 
controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also 
responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Company has an adequate internal financial controls 
system in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management 
and board of directors use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Company to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
financial statements that, individually or in aggregate, 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable user of the financial statements 
may be influenced. We consider quantitative materiality 
and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; and 
(ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in 
the financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
The actuarial valuation of liabilities in respect of Incurred 
But Not Reported (the “IBNR”), Incurred But Not Enough 
Reported (the “IBNER”) and Premium Deficiency Reserve 
(the “PDR”) is the responsibility of the Company’s 
Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”). The 
actuarial valuation of these liabilities, which are estimated 
using statistical methods as at March 31, 2025 has been 
duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, 
the assumptions considered by him for such valuation 
are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued 
by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in 
concurrence with the IRDAI. We have relied upon the 
Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming 
our opinion on the valuation of liabilities for outstanding 
claims reserves and the PDR contained in the financial 
statements of the Company.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the IRDAI Financial Statements 
Regulations, we have issued a separate certificate 
dated April 28, 2025 certifying the matters specified 
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Part III of Schedule II to the 
IRDAI Financial Statements Regulations.
2.	
As required by paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part III of 
Schedule II to the IRDAI Financial Statements 
Regulations read with Section 143(3) of the Act, in 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
126
our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations give to us, we report, to the extent 
applicable, that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit of the accompanying 
financial statements and those have been found 
satisfactory.
	
b)	
Proper books of account as required by law have 
been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books except 
for the matters stated in the paragraph 2 (j) 
(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014;
	
c)	
As the Company’s accounts are centralized and 
maintained at the corporate office, no returns 
for the purposes of our audit are prepared at the 
branches and other offices of the Company as 
required under Section 143(8) of the Act;
	
d)	
The Balance Sheet, the Revenue Accounts, the 
Profit and Loss Account and the Receipts and 
Payments Account dealt with by this report are 
in agreement with the books of account.
	
e)	
The accounting polices selected by the Company 
are appropriate and such accounting policies 
and the aforesaid financial statements comply 
with the applicable Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2021 and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India read with and which are not 
inconsistent with the accounting principles 
prescribed in the IRDAI Financial Statements 
Regulations, the Insurance Act, IRDAI Act and 
circulars/orders/directions issued by IRDAI in this 
regard;
	
f)	
Investments have been valued in accordance 
with the provisions of the Insurance Act, the 
Investment Regulations and orders/directions 
issued by IRDAI in this regard.
	
g)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors for the year ended 
March 31, 2025, taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified 
as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
	
h)	
The observation relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2 (b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act 
and paragraph 2 (j) (vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014.
	
i)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to the financial 
reporting of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure A”.
	
j)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with 
Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position 
in its financial statements – Refer Note 31 in 
Schedule 16 to the financial statements;
	
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any outstanding 
long-term derivative contracts – Refer 
Note no. 32 in Schedule 16 to the financial 
statements and “Other Matter” para above.
	
	
iii.	
During the year there were no amounts 
required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company - Refer Note 33 in Schedule 16 to 
the financial statements; and
	
	
iv.	
(a)	 The Management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to or 
in any other person or entity, including 
foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
127
14
123
01
Intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
(a)	 The Management has represented, 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been received by the Company 
from any person or entity, including 
foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
(b)	 Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
representations 
under 
sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided 
under (a) and (b) above, contain any 
material misstatement. – Refer Note 
43 in Schedule 16 to the financial 
statements
	
	
v.	
The Company has neither proposed nor 
paid any interim or final dividend during the 
year. Therefore, reporting on compliance 
with section 123 of the Act does not arise.
	
	
vi.	
As stated in Note 42 to the financial 
statements and relying on representations/
explanations 
from 
the 
company 
and 
software 
vendor 
and 
based 
on 
our 
examination which included test checks 
on the software applications, except for 
instances mentioned below, the Company, 
in respect of financial year commencing 
on April 01, 2024, has used software 
applications for maintaining its books of 
account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same 
has been operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the 
respective software applications. During 
the course of our audit we did not come 
across any instance of audit trail feature 
being tampered with.
Instances of accounting software for 
maintaining books of account for which 
the feature of recording audit trail (edit 
log) facility was not operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software
The feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility was 
not enabled at the database level to log any direct data 
changes for accounting application until 4 Aug 2024 & for 
investment management application until 11 Jun 2024.
Company has enabled audit trail (edit logs) feature for all 
identified financial accounting tables on 07 Jun 2024 for 
policy and claims administration system.
	
	
	
Additionally, other than the periods where audit trail was not enabled in the prior year, the audit trail has 
been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
128
For Kirtane & Pandit LLP
For PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105215W / W100057
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 003990S / S200018
Suhrud Lele
Seethalakshmi M
Partner
Partner
Membership No. 121162
UDIN: 25121162BMJHUV4642
Membership No. 208545
UDIN: 25208545BMVSJA4731
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
3.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s report, in terms of the requirements of Section 
197(16) of the Act, we report that managerial remuneration payable to the Company’s Directors is governed by 
the provisions of Section 34A of the Insurance Act, 1938 and is approved by IRDAI. Accordingly, the managerial 
remuneration limits specified under Section 197 of the Act do not apply.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
129
14
123
01
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to the aforesaid financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to the aforesaid financial statements of Go Digit 
General Insurance Limited (“the Company”) as at March 
31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended on that 
date.
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all 
material respects, an adequate internal financial controls 
system over financial reporting and such internal financial 
controls over financial reporting were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The 
Company’s 
management 
is 
responsible 
for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the “internal control with reference to financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India”. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to the company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, and the timely preparation 
of reliable financial information, as required under the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Insurance Act, the IRDAI Act, 
the Regulations and orders/directions prescribed by the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
(‘IRDAI’) in this behalf and current practices prevailing 
within the insurance industry in India.
Annexure A
Referred to in paragraph ‘2 (i)’ of Section ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ of our 
report of even date to the members of Go Digit General Insurance Limited (“the Company”) on the financial 
statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing prescribed under section 143(10) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls with reference to the 
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to the financial reporting was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial reporting 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial reporting 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Reporting
A company’s internal financial control with reference 
to financial reporting is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control with reference to financial reporting includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
130
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made 
only in accordance with authorizations of management 
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial reporting, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference 
to the financial reporting to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal financial control with reference to 
the financial reporting may become inadequate because 
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
The actuarial valuation of liabilities in respect of Incurred 
But Not Reported (the “IBNR”), Incurred But Not Enough 
Reported (the “IBNER”) and Premium Deficiency Reserve 
(the “PDR”) is the responsibility of the Company’s 
Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”). The 
actuarial valuation of these liabilities, which are estimated 
using statistical methods as at March 31, 2025 has been 
duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, 
the assumptions considered by him for such valuation are 
in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the 
IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence 
with the IRDAI. The said actuarial valuations of liabilities 
for outstanding claims reserves and the PDR have been 
relied upon by us as mentioned in Other Matters paragraph 
in our Audit Report on the financial statements for the 
year ended March 31, 2025. Accordingly, our opinion on 
the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
reporting does not include reporting on the adequacy and 
operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the 
valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial liabilities.
For Kirtane & Pandit LLP
For PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105215W / W100057
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 003990S / S200018
Suhrud Lele
Seethalakshmi M
Partner
Partner
Membership No. 121162
UDIN: 25121162BMJHUV4642
Membership No. 208545
UDIN: 25208545BMVSJA4731
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
131
14
123
01
₹ in Lakhs
Particulars
Sch
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Sources of Funds
Share Capital
5 & 5A
 92,303 
 87,516 
Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 - 
Reserves and Surplus
6
 3,44,107 
 2,39,511 
Fair Value Account Change
	
Shareholder's Funds
 22,228 
 15,004 
	
Policyholder's Funds
 2,602 
 2,284 
Borrowings
7
 35,000 
 35,000 
Total
 4,96,240 
 3,79,315 
Application of Funds
Investments
	
Shareholders
8
 3,93,628 
 2,03,828 
	
Policyholders
8A
 15,52,774 
 13,36,936 
Loans
9
 - 
 - 
Fixed Assets
10
 16,156 
 16,275 
Deferred Tax Assets (net)
 - 
 - 
Current Assets
	
Cash and Bank Balances
11
 23,905 
 35,606 
	
Advances and Other Assets
12
 1,59,631 
 1,03,200 
Sub Total (A)
 1,83,536 
 1,38,806 
Deferred Tax Liability (net)
 - 
 - 
Current Liabilities
13
 12,90,406 
 1,018,679 
Provisions
14
 3,89,318 
 3,70,215 
Sub Total (B)
 16,79,724 
 1,388,894 
Net Current Assets (A)-(B)
 (14,96,188)
 (12,50,088)
Miscellaneous expenditure (to the extent not written off or adjusted)
15
 - 
 - 
Debit Balance in Profit and Loss Account
 29,870 
 72,364 
Total
 4,96,240 
 3,79,315 
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (Refer Note 3 of Schedule 16)
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
1.	
Partly paid-up investments
 - 
 - 
2.	
Claims, other than against policies, not acknowledged as debts by the company
 - 
 - 
3.	
Underwriting commitments outstanding (in respect of shares and securities)
 - 
 - 
4.	
Guarantees given by or on behalf of the Company
 - 
 - 
5.	
Statutory demands/ liabilities in dispute, not provided for
 - 
 - 
6.	
Reinsurance obligations to the extent not provided for in accounts
 - 
 - 
7.	
Others
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 - 
 - 
Significant accounting policies and notes forming part of Financial Statements	
16
Form B - BS
IRDAI Registration No. 158
Date of Registration with IRDAI - September 20, 2017
Balance Sheet As on March 31, 2025
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of  Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For PKF Sridhar and Santhanam LLP
For Kirtane and Pandit LLP
Kamesh Goyal
Jasleen Kohli
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and
Firm Registration Number
Firm Registration Number
DIN - 01816985 
Chief Executive Officer
003990S / S200018
105215W / W100057
Place: Bengaluru, India
DIN - 07634112
Place: Bengaluru, India
Seethalakshmi
Suhrud Lele
Mahender Kumar Garg
Tejas Saraf
Partner
Partner
Director
Company Secretary
Membership No. 208545
Membership No. 121162
DIN - 00081454
Membership No. ACS 26225
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
132
Form B - PL
IRDAI Registration No. 158
Date of Registration with IRDAI - September 20, 2017
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2025
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of  Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For PKF Sridhar and Santhanam LLP
For Kirtane and Pandit LLP
Kamesh Goyal
Jasleen Kohli
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and
Firm Registration Number
Firm Registration Number
DIN - 01816985 
Chief Executive Officer
003990S / S200018
105215W / W100057
Place: Bengaluru, India
DIN - 07634112
Place: Bengaluru, India
Seethalakshmi
Suhrud Lele
Mahender Kumar Garg
Tejas Saraf
Partner
Partner
Director
Company Secretary
Membership No. 208545
Membership No. 121162
DIN - 00081454
Membership No. ACS 26225
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
SNO.
Particulars
2025
2024
1
Operating Profit / (Loss)
(a)	
Fire Insurance
 6,235 
 5,474 
(b)	
Marine Insurance
 866 
 681 
(c)	
Miscellaneous Insurance
 54,356 
 42,265 
Total
 61,457 
 48,420 
Income From Investments
2
(a)	
Interest, Dividend & Rent –  Gross
 20,567 
 12,876 
(b)	
Profit on sale of investments
 1,738 
 4,350 
(c)	
Less: Loss on sale / redemption of investments
 (926)
 (23)
(d)	
Amortization of Premium / Discount on Investments
 187 
 10 
3
Other Income
(a)	
Interest On Income Tax Refund
 - 
 36 
(b)	
Profit on sale / discard of fixed assets
 37 
 12 
(c)	
Others
 - 
 3 
Total (A)
 83,060 
 65,684 
4
Provisions  (Other than taxation)
(a)	
For diminution in the value of investments
 - 
 - 
(b)	
For doubtful debts
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Others
 - 
 - 
5
Other Expenses
(a)	
Expenses other than those related to Insurance Business 
 4,560 
 151 
(b)	
Bad debts written off
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Loss on sale / discard of fixed assets
 65 
 - 
(d)	
Interest on Non-convertible Debentures
 3,417 
 613 
(e)	
Penalties
 100 
 - 
(f)	
Contribution to Policyholders Account
	
(i)	
Towards Excess EOM
 32,401 
 46,752 
	
(ii)	
Towards remuneration of MD/CEO/WTD/Other KMPs
 23 
 - 
(g)	
Others
 - 
 - 
Total (B)
 40,566 
 47,516 
6
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax
 42,494 
 18,168 
7
Provision for Taxation
 - 
 - 
	
Current tax
 - 
 - 
	
Deferred Tax
 - 
 - 
8
Profit/(Loss) After Tax
 42,494 
 18,168 
Profit/(Loss) available for appropriation
 42,494 
 18,168 
9
Appropriations
(a)	
Interim dividends paid during the year
 - 
 - 
(b)	
Proposed final dividend
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Final dividend paid
 - 
 - 
(d)	
Dividend distribution tax
 - 
 - 
(e)	
Debenture redemption reserve
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Transfer to any Reserves or Other Accounts (to be specified)
 - 
 - 
Balance of profit / (loss) brought forward from last year
 (72,364)
 (90,532)
Balance carried forward to Balance Sheet
 (29,870)
 (72,364)
Earnings per share - Basic (in ₹)
 4.65 
 2.08 
Earnings per share - Diluted (in ₹)
 4.62 
 2.05 
Significant accounting policies and notes forming part of Financial Statements	
16
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
133
14
123
01
Cash Flow Statement For the year ended March 31, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities
Premium received from policyholders, including advance receipts
 10,36,342 
 9,30,808 
Other Receipts
 - 
 - 
Payments to / from re-insurers, net of commission and claims
 (34,839)
 (20,852)
Payments to / from co-insurers, net of claims recovery
 4,824 
 13,355 
Payments of claims
 (3,63,856)
 (3,03,363)
Payments of commission and brokerage
 (2,83,278)
 (2,14,095)
Payments of other operating expenses
 (1,09,855)
 (1,50,076)
Preliminary and pre-operative expenses
 - 
 - 
Deposits, advances and staff loans, net
 (594)
 (1,359)
Income taxes paid, net
 - 
 760 
Goods and services tax paid, net 
 (88,341)
 (83,131)
Other payments
 - 
 - 
Cash flows before extraordinary items
 1,60,403 
 1,72,047 
Cash flows from extraordinary operations
 - 
 - 
Net cash flows from operating activities (A)
 1,60,403 
 1,72,047 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets
 (1,780)
 (1,662)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 42 
 23 
Purchase of investments
 (10,29,497)
 (7,20,285)
Sale of investments
 6,54,088 
 4,57,918 
Loans disbursed
 - 
 - 
Repayments received
 - 
 - 
Rent / Interests / Dividend received
 1,09,769 
 91,194 
Investment in money market instruments and liquid mutual funds, net
 (16,028)
 (25,744)
Expenses related to investments
 (337)
 (32)
Net cash flows from investing activities (B)
 (2,83,743)
 (1,98,588)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital, net of share issue expenses
 1,12,108 
 (158)
Proceeds from borrowings
 - 
 34,986 
Repayments of borrowings
 - 
 - 
Interest / dividends paid
 (2,904)
 (613)
Net cash flows from financing activities (C)
 1,09,204 
 34,215 
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents, net
 - 
 - 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 (14,136)
 7,674 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 35,579 
 27,905 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 21,443 
 35,579 
Add: Deposits Accounts - Others
 2,462 
 27 
Balance As per Schedule-11 Cash & Bank Balances
 23,905 
 35,606 
Significant accounting policies and notes forming part of Financial Statements	
16
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of  Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For PKF Sridhar and Santhanam LLP
For Kirtane and Pandit LLP
Kamesh Goyal
Jasleen Kohli
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and
Firm Registration Number
Firm Registration Number
DIN - 01816985 
Chief Executive Officer
003990S / S200018
105215W / W100057
Place: Bengaluru, India
DIN - 07634112
Place: Bengaluru, India
Seethalakshmi
Suhrud Lele
Mahender Kumar Garg
Tejas Saraf
Partner
Partner
Director
Company Secretary
Membership No. 208545
Membership No. 121162
DIN - 00081454
Membership No. ACS 26225
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
134
Form B - RA
IRDAI Registration No. 158
Date of Registration with IRDAI - September 20, 2017
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
S. no.
Particulars
Sch
2025
2024
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
1
Premiums earned (net)
1
11,926
975
3
978
7,91,692
8,04,596
8,784
428
44
472
7,00,384
7,09,640
2
Profit / (Loss) on sale of 
investments
(21)
(1)
-
(1)
(1,128)
(1,150)
22
-
-
-
1,285
1,307
3
Interest, Dividend & Rent – 
Gross(1)
2,252
56
2
58
1,09,750
1,12,060
1,619
23
1
24
84,929
86,572
4
Others
Other Income
-
-
-
-
22
22
-
-
-
-
3
3
Contribution from Shareholders 
Account
-
-
-
-
-
-
(i)  Towards excess Expense of 
management
-
-
-
-
32,401
32,401
-
-
-
-
46,752
46,752
(ii)  Towards remuneration of MD/
CEO/WTD/Other KMPs
-
-
-
-
23
23
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total (A)
14,157
1,030
5
1,035
9,32,760
9,47,952
10,425
451
45
496
8,33,353
8,44,274
5
Claims Incurred (net)
2
8,198
585
(36)
549
5,77,149
5,85,896
7,528
341
36
377
4,91,115
4,99,020
6
Commission
3
(1,617)
(607)
-
(607)
2,25,061
2,22,837
(4,340)
(740)
(1)
(741)
1,93,927
1,88,846
7
Operating Expenses related to 
Insurance Business
4
1,341
227
-
227
76,194
77,762
1,763
174
5
179
1,06,046
1,07,988
8
Provision for premium deficiency
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total (B)
7,922
205
(36)
169
8,78,404
8,86,495
4,951
(225)
40
(185)
7,91,088
7,95,854
Operating Profit/(Loss) (A - B)
6,235
825
41
866
54,356
61,457
5,474
676
5
681
42,265
48,420
Appropriations
Transfer to Shareholders’ Account
6,235
825
41
866
54,356
61,457
5,474
676
5
681
42,265
48,420
Transfer to Catastrophe reserve
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transfer to Other reserves
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total ( C)
6,235
825
41
866
54,356
61,457
5,474
676
5
681
42,265
48,420
Note-1
₹ in Lakhs
Particulars
2025
2024
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Interest, Dividend & Rent
1,894 
52 
2 
54 
1,02,272 
1,04,220 
1,326 
21 
1 
22 
78,958 
80,306 
Add/Less:
Investment Expenses 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Amortisation of Premium/ Discount on 
Investments
138 
4 
- 
4 
7,459 
7,601 
100 
2 
- 
2 
5,958 
6,060 
Amount written off in respect of 
depreciated investments
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Provision for diminution in the value of 
other than actively traded Equities
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Investment income from Pool
220 
- 
- 
- 
19 
239 
193 
- 
- 
- 
12 
205 
Interest, Dividend & Rent – Gross
2,252 
56 
2 
58 
1,09,750 
1,12,060 
1,619 
23 
1 
24 
84,928 
86,571 
Significant accounting policies and notes forming part of Financial Statements	
16
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of  Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For PKF Sridhar and Santhanam LLP
For Kirtane and Pandit LLP
Kamesh Goyal
Jasleen Kohli
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and
Firm Registration Number
Firm Registration Number
DIN - 01816985 
Chief Executive Officer
003990S / S200018
105215W / W100057
Place: Bengaluru, India
DIN - 07634112
Place: Bengaluru, India
Seethalakshmi
Suhrud Lele
Mahender Kumar Garg
Tejas Saraf
Partner
Partner
Director
Company Secretary
Membership No. 208545
Membership No. 121162
DIN - 00081454
Membership No. ACS 26225
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
135
14
123
01
Schedule 1 & 1A - Premium Earned (net)
For the year ended March 31, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 1 - Premium Earned 
(net)
2025
2024
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Gross Direct Premium
48,396
5,142
-
5,142
7,93,678
8,47,216
48,695
3,523
205
3,728
7,41,687
7,94,110
Add: Premium on reinsurance 
accepted
33,903
2,333
-
2,333
1,44,762
1,80,998
31,918
1,824
(1)
1,823
73,708
1,07,449
Less : Premium on reinsurance 
ceded
69,424
6,262
-
6,262
1,29,447
2,05,133
69,455
4,914
157
5,071
53,941
1,28,467
Net Written Premium / Net 
Premium Income
12,875
1,213
-
1,213
8,08,993
8,23,081
11,158
433
47
480
7,61,454
7,73,092
Add: Opening balance of 
Unearned Premium Reserve at 
the beginning of the year
10,606
133
3
136
3,57,990
3,68,732
8,232
128
-
128
2,96,920
3,05,280
Less: Closing balance of 
Unearned Premium Reserve at 
the end of the year
11,555
371
-
371
3,75,291
3,87,217
10,606
133
3
136
3,57,990
3,68,732
Net Earned Premium
11,926
975
3
978
7,91,692
8,04,596
8,784
428
44
472
7,00,384
7,09,640
Gross Direct Premium
-In India
48,396
5,142
-
5,142
7,93,678
8,47,216
48,695
3,523
205
3,728
7,41,687
7,94,110
-Outside India
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Schedule 1A - Premium 
Earned (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2025
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Gross Direct Premium
2,23,288 3,63,145 5,86,433
7,432
18
-
12,593
2,341
41,679 1,17,760
3,154
-
22,268 7,93,678
Add: Premium on 
reinsurance accepted
-
-
-
-
-
-
2,326
-
61
64,932
-
65,199
12,244 1,44,762
Less : Premium on 
reinsurance ceded
9,242
14,799
24,041
297
16
-
12,768
796
37,162
35,942
157
(23)
18,291 1,29,447
Net Written Premium / 
Net Premium Income
2,14,046 3,48,346 5,62,392
7,135
2
-
2,151
1,545
4,578 1,46,750
2,997
65,222
16,221 8,08,993
Add: Opening balance 
of Unearned Premium 
Reserve at the beginning 
of the year
98,932 1,72,360 2,71,292
2,507
1
-
1,085
-
28,575
51,513
67
-
2,950 3,57,990
Less: Closing balance 
of Unearned Premium 
Reserve at the end of 
the year
1,08,849 1,82,430 2,91,279
2,955
1
-
1,680
1,167
15,314
53,628
140
-
9,127 3,75,291
Net Earned Premium
2,04,129 3,38,276 5,42,405
6,687
2
-
1,556
378
17,839 1,44,635
2,924
65,222
10,044 7,91,692
Gross Direct Premium
-In India
2,23,288 3,63,145 5,86,433
7,432
18
-
12,593
2,341
41,679 1,17,760
3,154
-
22,268 7,93,678
-Outside India
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Schedule 1A - Premium 
Earned (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2024
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Gross Direct Premium  
1,95,751 3,51,376 5,47,127 
6,071 
17 
- 
8,500 
- 
31,768 1,26,462 2,331 
- 19,411 7,41,687 
Add: Premium on 
reinsurance accepted  
(1)
(55)
(56)
- 
- 
- 
2,597 
- 
127 
14,971 
8 54,122 
1,939 
73,708 
Less : Premium on 
reinsurance ceded  
8,033 
14,353 
22,386 
243 
15 
- 
9,795 
- 
2,410 
5,059 
93 
31 13,909 
53,941 
Net Written Premium / 
Net Premium Income 
1,87,717 3,36,968 5,24,685 
5,828 
2 
- 
1,302 
- 
29,485 1,36,374 2,246 54,091 
7,441 7,61,454 
Add: Opening balance 
of  Unearned Premium 
Reserve at the beginning 
of the year 
73,685 1,69,994 2,43,679 
1,690 
1 
- 
629 
56 
13,071 
29,579 
53 
- 
8,162 2,96,920 
Less: Closing  balance 
of Unearned Premium 
Reserve at the end of 
the year 
98,932 1,72,360 2,71,292 
2,507 
1 
- 
1,085 
- 
28,575 
51,513 
67 
- 
2,950 3,57,990 
Net Earned Premium
1,62,470 3,34,602 4,97,072 
5,011 
2 
- 
846 
56 
13,981 1,14,440 2,232 54,091 12,653 7,00,384 
Gross Direct Premium 
-In India 
1,95,751 3,51,376 5,47,127 
6,071 
17 
- 
8,500 
- 
31,768 1,26,462 2,331 
- 19,411 7,41,687 
-Outside India 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
136
Schedule 2 & 2A - Claims Incurred (net)
For the year ended March 31, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 2 - Claims Incurred 
(net)
2025
2024
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Claims Paid (Direct) 
18,654 
2,739 
1 
2,740 
3,06,555 
3,27,949 
8,241 
2,069 
- 
2,069 
2,77,490 
2,87,800 
Add :Re-insurance accepted to 
direct claims 
13,265 
54 
- 
54 
1,18,442 
1,31,761 
5,331 
45 
- 
45 
81,272 
86,648 
Less :Re-insurance Ceded to 
claims paid 
26,875 
2,644 
1 
2,645 
43,022 
72,542 
11,095 
1,876 
- 
1,876 
27,656 
40,627 
Net Claim Paid 
5,044 
149 
- 
149 
3,81,975 
3,87,168 
2,477 
238 
- 
238 
3,31,106 
3,33,821 
Add :Claims Outstanding at 
the end of the year (net of 
reinsurance) 
14,515 
660 
- 
660 
9,11,076 
9,26,251 
11,361 
224 
36 
260 
7,15,902 
7,27,523 
Less :Claims Outstanding at 
the beginning of the year
(net of reinsurance) 
11,361 
224 
36 
260 
7,15,902 
7,27,523 
6,310 
121 
- 
121 
5,55,893 
5,62,324 
Net Incurred Claims 
8,198 
585 
(36)
549 
5,77,149 
5,85,896 
7,528 
341 
36 
377 
4,91,115 
4,99,020 
Claims Paid (Direct) 
-In India 
18,654 
2,739 
1 
2,740 
3,06,555 
3,27,949 
8,241 
2,069 
- 
2,069 
2,77,490 
2,87,800 
-Outside India 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Estimates of IBNR and IBNER 
at the end of the year (net) 
2,357 
317 
- 
317 
6,88,681 
6,91,355 
2,388 
160 
36 
196 
5,34,896 
5,37,480 
Estimates of IBNR and IBNER 
at the beginning of the year 
(net) 
2,388 
160 
36 
196 
5,34,896 
5,37,480 
2,672 
87 
- 
87 
4,08,601 
4,11,360 
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 2A - Claims 
Incurred (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2025
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Claims Paid (Direct) 
1,43,007 
27,784 1,70,791 
3,050 
- 
- 
2,951 
- 
9,381 1,09,536 
921 
- 
9,925 3,06,555 
Add :Re-insurance 
accepted to direct claims 
448 
46,404 
46,852 
- 
- 
- 
111 
- 
27 
17,466 
- 49,543 
4,443 1,18,442 
Less :Re-insurance Ceded 
to claims paid 
5,788 
2,940 
8,728 
123 
- 
- 
2,578 
- 
4,636 
17,942 
37 
141 
8,837 
43,022 
Net Claim Paid 
1,37,667 
71,248 2,08,915 
2,927 
- 
- 
484 
- 
4,772 1,09,060 
884 49,402 
5,531 3,81,975 
Add :Claims Outstanding 
at the end of the year (net 
of reinsurance) 
15,355 8,02,968 8,18,323 
3,804 
2 
- 
2,378 
371 
8,377 
41,996 
299 24,576 10,950 9,11,076 
Less :Claims Outstanding 
at the beginning of the 
year (net of reinsurance)
14,557 6,49,072 6,63,629 
1,845 
2 
- 
1,258 
- 
5,749 
20,799 
268 15,046 
7,306 7,15,902 
Net Incurred Claims 
1,38,465 2,25,144 3,63,609 
4,886 
- 
- 
1,604 
371 
7,400 1,30,257 
915 58,932 
9,175 5,77,149 
Claims Paid (Direct) 
-In India 
1,43,007 
27,784 1,70,791 
3,050 
- 
- 
2,951 
- 
9,381 1,09,536 
921 
- 
9,925 3,06,555 
-Outside India 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Estimates of IBNR and 
IBNER at the end of the 
year (net) 
4,955 6,08,598 6,13,553 
2,096 
2 
- 
876 
112 
5,148 
34,536 
174 24,528 
7,656 6,88,681 
Estimates of IBNR and 
IBNER at the beginning of 
the year (net) 
5,071 4,88,643 4,93,714 
1,029 
2 
- 
410 
- 
4,218 
14,340 
197 15,046 
5,940 5,34,896 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
137
14
123
01
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 2A - Claims 
Incurred (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2024
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Claims Paid (Direct) 
1,06,356 
43,062 1,49,418 
1,865 
- 
- 
1,551 
- 
8,030 
98,396 
246 
- 17,984 2,77,490 
Add :Re-insurance 
accepted to direct claims 
1,297 
25,226 
26,523 
- 
- 
- 
83 
- 
- 
7,855 
- 39,825 
6,986 
81,272 
Less :Re-insurance Ceded 
to claims paid 
4,358 
2,931 
7,289 
76 
- 
- 
1,383 
- 
2,447 
3,941 
10 
62 12,448 
27,656 
Net Claim Paid 
1,03,295 
65,357 1,68,652 
1,789 
- 
- 
251 
- 
5,583 1,02,310 
236 39,763 12,522 3,31,106 
Add :Claims Outstanding 
at the end of the year (net 
of reinsurance) 
14,557 6,49,072 6,63,629 
1,845 
2 
- 
1,258 
- 
5,749 
20,799 
268 15,046 
7,306 7,15,902 
Less :Claims Outstanding 
at the beginning of the 
year (net of reinsurance) 
10,389 5,12,160 5,22,549 
1,046 
2 
- 
408 
19 
3,491 
8,657 
151 
4,487 15,083 5,55,893 
Net Incurred Claims 
1,07,463 2,02,269 3,09,732 
2,588 
- 
- 
1,101 
(19)
7,841 1,14,452 
353 50,322 
4,745 4,91,115 
Claims Paid (Direct) 
-In India 
1,06,356 
43,062 1,49,418 
1,865 
- 
- 
1,551 
- 
8,030 
98,396 
246 
- 17,984 2,77,490 
-Outside India 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Estimates of IBNR and 
IBNER at the end of the 
year (net) 
5,071 4,88,643 4,93,714 
1,029 
2 
- 
410 
- 
4,218 
14,340 
197 15,046 
5,940 5,34,896 
Estimates of IBNR and 
IBNER at the beginning of 
the year (net) 
1,972 3,81,955 3,83,927 
663 
2 
- 
227 
19 
2,524 
6,460 
100 
3,755 10,924 4,08,601 
Note: (a). Claims Paid – Direct for Motor TP sub-segment is net of claims recovered from co insurer towards claims outstanding  of 
₹ 49,318 Lakhs (For the year ended March 31, 2024: ₹  23,135 Lakhs) on account of negotiated settlements (b). Claims paid – Reinsurance 
accepted includes claims paid of ₹ 46,852 Lakhs (For the period ended March 31, 2024: ₹ 21,747 Lakhs) to reinsurer on account of 
negotiated settlements.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
138
Schedule 3 & 3A - Commission (net)
For the year ended March 31, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 3 - Commission 
(net)
2025
2024
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Gross Commission
7,714 
616 
- 
616 
2,44,575 
2,52,905 
6,225 
359 
4 
363 
2,05,474 
2,12,062 
Add: Commission on 
Re-insurance Accepted
3,644 
371 
- 
371 
13,241 
17,256 
3,402 
257 
- 
257 
3,213 
6,872 
Less: Commission on 
Re-insurance Ceded
12,975 
1,594 
- 
1,594 
32,755 
47,324 
13,967 
1,356 
5 
1,361 
14,760 
30,088 
Net Commission
(1,617)
(607)
- 
(607)
2,25,061 
2,22,837 
(4,340)
(740)
(1)
(741)
1,93,927 
1,88,846 
Channel wise Break-up of 
Commission (Gross)
- 
Individual Agents
704 
209 
- 
209 
12,921 
13,834 
618 
140 
- 
140 
10,668 
11,426 
Corporate Agents-Banks/
FII/HFC
633 
2 
- 
2 
4,387 
5,022 
262 
1 
- 
1 
1,114 
1,377 
Corporate Agents-Others
1,049 
- 
- 
- 
14,718 
15,767 
179 
1 
- 
1 
12,339 
12,519 
Insurance Brokers
5,214 
391 
- 
391 
1,51,105 
1,56,710 
5,144 
213 
4 
217 
1,28,080 
1,33,441 
Direct Business - Online
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
MISP (Direct)
- 
- 
- 
- 
18,001 
18,001 
- 
- 
- 
- 
12,394 
12,394 
Web Aggregators
- 
- 
- 
- 
146 
146 
- 
- 
- 
- 
914 
914 
Insurance Marketing Firm
51 
14 
- 
14 
654 
719 
1 
4 
- 
4 
289 
294 
Common Service Centers
- 
- 
- 
- 
343 
343 
- 
- 
- 
- 
250 
250 
Micro Agents
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Point of Sales (Direct)
63 
- 
- 
- 
42,300 
42,363 
21 
- 
- 
- 
39,426 
39,447 
Others
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total
7,714 
616 
- 
616 
2,44,575 
2,52,905 
6,225 
359 
4 
363 
2,05,474 
2,12,062 
Commission (Excluding 
Reinsurance) Business 
written
In India
7,714 
616 
- 
616 
2,44,575 
2,52,905 
6,225 
359 
4 
363 
2,05,474 
2,12,062 
Outside India
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 3A - 
Commission (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2025
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Gross Commission
86,430 1,22,011 2,08,441 
1,989 
3 
- 
2,191 
47 
12,012 
14,567 1,191 
- 
4,134 2,44,575 
Add: Commission on 
Re-insurance Accepted
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
316 
- 
5 
7,213 
- 
3,997 
1,710 
13,241 
Less: Commission on 
Re-insurance Ceded
1,620 
788 
2,408 
50 
3 
- 
2,581 
53 
17,082 
4,699 
17 
(1)
5,863 
32,755 
Net Commission
84,810 1,21,223 2,06,033 
1,939 
- 
- 
(74)
(6)
(5,065)
17,081 1,174 
3,998 
(19) 2,25,061 
Channel wise Break-up 
of Commission (Gross)
Individual Agents
2,903 
6,592 
9,495 
1,158 
1 
- 
592 
- 
196 
886 
62 
- 
531 
12,921 
Corporate Agents-Banks/
FII/HFC
165 
555 
720 
1 
- 
- 
67 
- 
2,603 
395 
64 
- 
537 
4,387 
Corporate Agents-Others
3,823 
2,245 
6,068 
2 
- 
- 
3 
- 
3,455 
4,163 
43 
- 
984 
14,718 
Insurance Brokers
55,788 
75,504 1,31,292 
786 
2 
- 
1,487 
47 
5,689 
8,863 
939 
- 
2,000 1,51,105 
Direct Business - Online
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
MISP (Direct)
9,595 
8,406 
18,001 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
18,001 
Web Aggregators
13 
133 
146 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
146 
Insurance Marketing Firm
209 
295 
504 
11 
- 
- 
18 
- 
54 
64 
3 
- 
- 
654 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
139
14
123
01
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 3A - 
Commission (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2025
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Common Service Centers
114 
259 
373 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(31)
343 
Micro Agents
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Point of Sales (Direct)
13,820 
28,022 
41,842 
30 
- 
- 
24 
- 
15 
196 
80 
- 
113 
42,300 
Others
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total
86,430 1,22,011 2,08,441 
1,989 
3 
- 
2,191 
47 
12,012 
14,567 1,191 
- 
4,134 2,44,575 
Commission (Excluding 
Reinsurance) 
Business written
In India
86,430 1,22,011 2,08,441 
1,989 
3 
- 
2,191 
47 
12,012 
14,567 1,191 
- 
4,134 2,44,575 
Outside India
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 3A - 
Commission (net)
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2024
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation
Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
Gross Commission
65,750 1,15,125 1,80,875 
1,546 
2 
- 
1,620 
- 
5,888 
11,031 
692 
- 
3,820 2,05,474 
Add: Commission on 
Re-insurance Accepted
- 
(3)
(3)
- 
- 
- 
308 
(5)
13 
868 
4 
1,685 
343 
3,213 
Less: Commission on 
Re-insurance Ceded
2,304 
3,657 
5,961 
37 
3 
- 
2,361 
- 
467 
810 
32 
1 
5,088 
14,760 
Net Commission
63,446 1,11,465 1,74,911 
1,509 
(1)
- 
(433)
(5)
5,434 
11,089 
664 
1,684 
(925) 1,93,927 
Channel wise Break-up 
of Commission (Gross)
Individual Agents
2,072 
6,159 
8,231 
897 
1 
- 
425 
- 
135 
611 
28 
- 
340 
10,668 
Corporate Agents-Banks/
FII/HFC
27 
37 
64 
1 
- 
- 
2 
- 
835 
101 
20 
- 
91 
1,114 
Corporate Agents-Others
4,536 
2,301 
6,837 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,526 
2,648 
6 
- 
322 
12,339 
Insurance Brokers
40,556 
72,124 1,12,680 
646 
1 
- 
1,190 
- 
2,380 
7,517 
600 
- 
3,066 1,28,080 
Direct Business - Online
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
MISP (Direct)
6,366 
6,029 
12,395 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(1)
12,394 
Web Aggregators
35 
877 
912 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
- 
- 
- 
914 
Insurance Marketing Firm
99 
169 
268 
2 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
15 
1 
- 
1 
289 
Common Service Centers
72 
178 
250 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
250 
Micro Agents
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Point of Sales (Direct)
11,987 
27,251 
39,238 
- 
- 
- 
1 
- 
11 
138 
37 
- 
1 
39,426 
Others
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total
65,750 1,15,125 1,80,875 
1,546 
2 
- 
1,620 
- 
5,888 
11,031 
692 
- 
3,820 2,05,474 
Commission (Excluding 
Reinsurance) 
Business written
In India
65,750 1,15,125 1,80,875 
1,546 
2 
- 
1,620 
- 
5,888 
11,031 
692 
- 
3,820 2,05,474 
Outside India
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
140
Schedule 4 & 4A - Operating Expenses related to Insurance Business*
For the year ended March 31, 2025
₹ in Lakhs
S. 
no.
Schedule 4 - Operating Expenses 
related to Insurance Business
2025
2024
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Fire
Marine
Misc
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
Cargo
Other
Total
1 
Employees’ remuneration & welfare 
benefits 
483 
90 
- 
90 
31,579 32,152 
376 
43 
1 
44 
26,530 
26,950 
2 
Travel, Conveyance and vehicle running 
expenses 
13 
7 
- 
7 
1,742 
1,762 
13 
5 
- 
5 
1,523 
1,541 
3 
Training and recruitment cost 
9 
1 
- 
1 
363 
373 
6 
- 
- 
- 
279 
285 
4 
Rent, rates and taxes 
15 
9 
- 
9 
2,203 
2,227 
24 
9 
- 
9 
2,813 
2,846 
5 
Repairs 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6 
Printing and stationery 
4 
- 
- 
- 
167 
171 
4 
- 
- 
- 
162 
166 
7 
Communication 
13 
1 
- 
1 
478 
492 
9 
- 
- 
- 
415 
424 
8 
Legal and professional charges 
7 
4 
- 
4 
957 
968 
73 
27 
- 
27 
8,478 
8,578 
9 
Auditors' fees, expenses etc 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(a)	
as auditor 
3 
- 
- 
- 
110 
113 
1 
- 
- 
- 
49 
50 
(b)	
as adviser or in any other 
capacity, in respect of 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
	
(i)	
Taxation matters 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10 
10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4 
4 
	
(ii)	
Insurance matters 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
	
(iii)	
Management services; and 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(c)	
in any other capacity 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(d)	
Reimbursement of expenses 
- 
- 
- 
- 
8 
8 
- 
- 
- 
- 
8 
8 
10 
Branding, advertisement and publicity 
56 
5 
- 
5 
2,145 
2,206 
39 
2 
- 
2 
1,780 
1,821 
11 
Interest and bank charges 
25 
15 
- 
15 
3,469 
3,509 
28 
11 
- 
11 
3,273 
3,312 
12 
Depreciation 
14 
8 
- 
8 
2,009 
2,031 
15 
6 
- 
6 
1,762 
1,783 
13 
Brand/Trade Mark usage fee/charges 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
14 
Business Development & Sales 
Promotion Expenses 
623 
59 
- 
59 
23,829 24,511 
1,059 
41 
4 
45 
48,457 
49,561 
15 
Information technology expenses 
34 
20 
- 
20 
4,799 
4,853 
55 
21 
- 
21 
6,403 
6,479 
16 
Goods and Services Tax 
19 
2 
- 
2 
729 
750 
18 
1 
- 
1 
813 
832 
17 
Other 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
	
Facility management charges** 
7 
4 
- 
4 
974 
985 
19 
7 
- 
7 
2,214 
2,240 
	
Miscellaneous expenses 
16 
2 
- 
2 
623 
641 
24 
1 
- 
1 
1,083 
1,108 
Total 
1,341 
227 
- 
227 
76,194 77,762 
1,763 
174 
5 
179 1,06,046 1,07,988 
In India 
1,325 
226 
- 
226 
75,213 76,764 
1,751 
174 
5 
179 1,05,252 1,07,182 
Outside India 
16 
1 
- 
1 
981 
998 
12 
- 
- 
- 
794 
806 
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 4A - Operating 
Expenses
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2025
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
1
Employees’ 
remuneration & welfare 
benefits 
14,436 14,841 29,277 
292 
- 
- 
87 
47 
275 
743 
137 
196 
525 31,579 
2
Travel, Conveyance 
and vehicle running 
expenses 
1,101 
585 
1,686 
10 
- 
- 
3 
- 
15 
19 
6 
- 
3 
1,742 
3
Training and recruitment 
cost 
113 
60 
173 
5 
- 
- 
2 
1 
87 
81 
2 
- 
12 
363 
4
Rent, rates and taxes 
1,390 
738 
2,128 
13 
- 
- 
4 
- 
19 
24 
8 
- 
7 
2,203 
5
Repairs 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6
Printing and stationery 
52 
27 
79 
2 
- 
- 
1 
1 
40 
37 
1 
- 
6 
167 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
141
14
123
01
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 4A - Operating 
Expenses
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2025
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation Personal 
Accident
Health Travel
Crop
Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
7
Communication 
149 
79 
228 
7 
- 
- 
2 
2 
115 
107 
3 
- 
14 
478 
8
Legal and professional 
charges 
604 
321 
925 
6 
- 
- 
2 
- 
8 
11 
3 
- 
2 
957 
9
Auditors' fees, expenses 
etc 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(a)  as auditor 
34 
18 
52 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
26 
24 
1 
- 
5 
110 
(b)  as adviser or in any 
other capacity, in 
respect of 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
      (i)  Taxation matters 
3 
2 
5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
2 
- 
- 
1 
10 
      (ii)  Insurance 
matters 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
      (iii)  Management 
services; and 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(c)  in any other capacity 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(d)  Reimbursement of 
expenses 
3 
1 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
2 
- 
- 
- 
8 
10 Branding, advertisement 
and publicity 
666 
354 
1,020 
31 
- 
- 
9 
7 
514 
482 
11 
- 
71 
2,145 
11 Interest and bank 
charges 
2,190 
1,163 
3,353 
21 
- 
- 
6 
- 
30 
38 
13 
- 
8 
3,469 
12 Depreciation 
1,269 
674 
1,943 
12 
- 
- 
3 
- 
18 
22 
7 
- 
4 
2,009 
13 Brand/Trade Mark 
usage fee/charges 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
14 Business Development 
& Sales Promotion 
Expenses 
7,401 
3,930 11,331 
344 
- 
- 
103 
75 
5,711 5,353 
127 
- 
785 23,829 
15 Information technology 
expenses 
3,029 
1,608 
4,637 
28 
- 
- 
8 
- 
42 
53 
17 
- 
14 
4,799 
16 Goods and Services Tax 
226 
120 
346 
11 
- 
- 
3 
2 
175 
164 
4 
- 
24 
729 
17 Other 
Facility management 
charges** 
615 
327 
942 
6 
- 
- 
2 
- 
9 
11 
4 
- 
- 
974 
Miscellaneous expenses 
193 
102 
295 
9 
- 
- 
2 
1 
150 
140 
3 
- 
23 
623 
Total
33,474 24,950 58,424 
799 
- 
- 
237 
136 
7,238 7,313 
347 
196 1,504 76,194 
In India 
33,214 24,528 57,742 
790 
- 
- 
234 
136 
7,232 7,135 
343 
117 1,484 75,213 
Outside India 
260 
422 
682 
9 
- 
- 
3 
- 
6 
178 
4 
79 
20 
981 
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 4A - Operating 
Expenses
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2024
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation Personal 
Accident Health Travel
Crop Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
1
Employees’ remuneration 
& welfare benefits 
11,040 12,344 23,384 
203 
- 
- 
47 
- 
1,795 
603 
107 
162 
229 
26,530 
2
Travel, Conveyance and 
vehicle running expenses 
941 
546 
1,487 
8 
- 
- 
2 
- 
5 
9 
7 
- 
5 
1,523 
3
Training and recruitment 
cost 
91 
53 
144 
3 
- 
- 
1 
- 
62 
64 
1 
- 
4 
279 
4
Rent, rates and taxes 
1,736 
1,008 
2,744 
14 
- 
- 
4 
- 
10 
17 
14 
- 
10 
2,813 
5
Repairs 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6
Printing and stationery 
53 
31 
84 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
36 
37 
1 
- 
2 
162 
7
Communication 
136 
79 
215 
5 
- 
- 
1 
- 
92 
95 
1 
- 
6 
415 
8
Legal and professional 
charges 
5,233 
3,038 
8,271 
43 
- 
- 
11 
- 
29 
52 
42 
- 
30 
8,478 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
142
₹ in Lakhs
Schedule 4A - Operating 
Expenses
Miscellaneous Class of 
Business
2024
Motor
Workmen 
Compensation
Public 
Liability
Product 
Liability Engineering Aviation Personal 
Accident Health Travel
Crop Others
Total
OD
TP
Total
9
Auditors' fees, expenses 
etc 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(a)  as auditor 
16 
9 
25 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
11 
11 
- 
- 
1 
49 
(b)  as adviser or in any 
other capacity, in 
respect of 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
      (i)  Taxation matters 
1 
1 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
1 
- 
- 
- 
4 
      (ii)  Insurance matters 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
      (iii)  Management 
services; and 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(c)  in any other capacity 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(d)  Reimbursement of 
expenses 
3 
1 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
2 
- 
- 
- 
8 
10 Branding, advertisement 
and publicity 
582 
338 
920 
20 
- 
- 
5 
- 
394 
409 
6 
- 
26 
1,780 
11 Interest and bank charges 
2,020 
1,173 
3,193 
17 
- 
- 
4 
- 
11 
20 
16 
- 
12 
3,273 
12 Depreciation 
1,087 
631 
1,718 
9 
- 
- 
2 
- 
6 
11 
9 
- 
7 
1,762 
13 Brand/Trade Mark usage 
fee/charges 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
14 Business Development 
& Sales Promotion 
Expenses 
15,849 
9,202 25,051 
553 
- 
- 
124 
- 
10,738 11,129 
156 
- 
706 
48,457 
15 Information technology 
expenses 
3,952 
2,294 
6,246 
33 
- 
- 
8 
- 
22 
39 
31 
- 
24 
6,403 
16 Goods and Services Tax 
266 
154 
420 
9 
- 
- 
2 
- 
180 
187 
3 
- 
12 
813 
17 Other 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Facility management 
charges** 
1,366 
793 
2,159 
11 
- 
- 
3 
- 
8 
14 
11 
- 
8 
2,214 
Miscellaneous expenses
354 
206 
560 
12 
- 
- 
3 
- 
240 
249 
3 
- 
16 
1,083 
Total
44,726 31,901 76,627 
943 
- 
- 
217 
- 
13,642 12,949 
408 
162 
1,098 1,06,046 
In India 
44,530 31,549 76,079 
937 
- 
- 
216 
- 
13,611 12,807 
406 
106 
1,090 1,05,252 
Outside India 
196 
352 
548 
6 
- 
- 
1 
- 
31 
142 
2 
56 
8 
794 
Allocation of expenses is as per expense allocation policy of the Company, refer note 2(S) in Schedule 16
** Facility Management charges are recorded net of rental income recovered through sub-leasing for March 31, 2025 - ₹ 352 Lakhs 
(March 31, 2024- ₹ 74 Lakhs) 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
143
14
123
01
Schedule 5 - Share Capital
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Authorised Capital
 1,00,000 
 1,00,000 
1,00,00,00,000 Equity shares of ₹ 10 each
(Previous year 1,00,00,00,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 each)
Issued Capital
 92,303 
 87,516 
92,30,25,934 Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
(As on 31 Mar 2024- 87,51,64,404 equity shares of ₹ 10 each)
Subscribed Capital
 92,303 
 87,516 
92,30,25,934 Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
(As on 31 Mar 2024- 87,51,64,404 equity shares of ₹ 10 each)
Called-up capital and Paid Up Capital
 92,303 
 87,516 
92,30,25,934 Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
(As on 31 Mar 2024- 87,51,64,404 equity shares of ₹ 10 each)
Less: Calls unpaid
 - 
 - 
Add: Equity shares forfeited
 - 
 - 
Less: Par value of equity shares bought back
 - 
 - 
Less: Preliminary expenses
 - 
 - 
Less: Expenses including commission or
 - 
 - 
	
brokerage on underwriting of shares
Total
 92,303 
 87,516 
Schedule 5A - Pattern of Shareholding
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Promoters
	
Indian - Go Digit Infoworks Services Private Limited
	
	
Number of Shares
 67,48,09,606 
 72,95,65,220 
	
	
% of Holdings
73.11%
83.36%
	
Foreign
	
	
Number of Shares
 - 
 - 
	
	
% of Holdings
0.00%
0.00%
Investors1
	
Indian
	
	
Number of Shares
 16,33,78,035 
 11,21,11,578 
	
	
% of Holdings
17.70%
12.81%
	
Foreign
	
	
Number of Shares
 8,48,38,293 
 3,34,87,606 
	
	
% of Holdings
9.19%
3.83%
Others
	
Indian
	
	
Number of Shares
 - 
 - 
	
	
% of Holdings
0.00%
0.00%
	
Foreign
	
	
Number of Shares
 - 
 - 
	
	
% of Holdings
0.00%
0.00%
Total
100%
100%
Notes:
1	
Investors as defined under Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Registration, Capital Structure, Transfer of 
Shares and Amalgamation of Insurers) Regulations, 2024 as amended from time to time.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
144
Schedule 6 - Reserves and Surplus
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Capital Reserve
 - 
 - 
Capital Redemption Reserve
 - 
 - 
Share Premium
Opening balance
 2,36,369 
 2,35,677 
Addition during the period
 1,09,837 
 527 
Add: Transfer from ESOP Outstanding
 1,050 
 182 
Less: Utilized for securities issue expenses
 (6,397)
 (17)
Closing balance
 3,40,859 
 2,36,369 
Revaluation Reserve
 - 
 - 
General Reserve
 - 
 - 
Less: Amount utilised for issue of bonus shares
 - 
 - 
Less: Amount utilised for buyback
 - 
 - 
Catastrophe Reserve
 - 
 - 
Debenture Redemption Reserve
 - 
 - 
Other Reserves
 - 
ESOP Outstanding
 - 
Opening balance
 3,142 
 2,684 
Addition during the year
 1,156 
 640 
Less: Transfer to Securities Premium for ESOPs exercised
 (1,050)
 (182)
Closing balance
 3,248 
 3,142 
Balance in Profit and Loss Account
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,44,107 
 2,39,511 
Schedule 7 - Borrowings
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Debentures / Bonds
 35,000 
 35,000 
Banks
 - 
 - 
Financial Institutions
 - 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 35,000 
 35,000 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
145
14
123
01
Schedule 8 - Investments - Shareholders
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Long term investments
Government securities and Government guaranteed bonds
 31,231 
 91,827 
including Treasury bills
Other approved securities
 5,680 
Other investments
(a)	 Shares
	
(aa)	Equity
 1,28,747 
 29,378 
	
(bb)	Preference
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Mutual Funds
 21,634 
 - 
(c)	
Derivative Instruments
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Debentures / Bonds
 44,495 
 14,981 
(e)	 Other securities
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
(g)	 Investment properties - Real estate
 5,470 
 1,304 
Investment in infrastructure and housing
 1,17,451 
 30,117 
Other than Approved Investments
(a)	 Equity Shares
 12,052 
 3,544 
(b)	 Alternative Investment Funds
 10,364 
 5,244 
(c)	
Debentures / Bonds
 10,000 
 10,000 
Total
 3,87,124 
 1,86,395 
Short term investments
Government securities and Government guaranteed bonds
 - 
 8,542 
including Treasury bills
Other approved securities
 - 
 - 
Other investments
(a)	 Shares
	
(aa)	Equity
 - 
 - 
	
(bb)	Preference
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Mutual Funds
 - 
 2,809 
(c)	
Derivative Instruments
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Debentures / Bonds
 5,000 
 2,500 
(e)	 Other securities
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
(g)	 Investment properties - Real estate
 - 
 - 
Investment in infrastructure and housing
 1,504 
 3,582 
Other than Approved Investments
 - 
 - 
(a)	 Debentures / Bonds
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Application Money
 - 
Total
 6,504 
 17,433 
Total investments - Shareholders
 3,93,628 
 2,03,828 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
146
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
In India
 3,93,628 
 2,03,828 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 3,93,628 
 2,03,828 
Notes - 
1.	
Aggregate value of investments other than listed equity securities & derivative instruements
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Long-term investment 
Book value
 2,04,000 
 1,42,335 
Market value
 2,07,260 
 1,41,740 
Short-term investment 
Book value
 6,504 
 14,624 
Market value
 6,523 
 14,476 
2.	
a.	
Long term other approved securities include investment in 100% Government of India backed bond	
	
	
amounting to ₹ 5,680 lakhs (For the year ended March 31, 2024  Nil)	
	
b.	
Short term other approved securities include investment in 100% Government of India backed bond 
	
	
amounting to Nil (For the year ended March 31, 2024  Nil)
Schedule 8A - Investments - Policyholders
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Long term investments
Government securities and Government guaranteed bonds
 6,28,466 
 7,60,413 
including Treasury bills
Other approved securities
 30,572 
 23,085 
Other investments
(a)	 Shares
	
(aa)	Equity
 1,89,630 
 1,58,166 
	
(bb)	Preference
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Mutual Funds
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Derivative Instruments
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Debentures / Bonds
 1,90,485 
 1,08,021 
(e)	 Other securities
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
(g)	 Investment properties - Real estate
 - 
 - 
Investment in infrastructure and housing
 4,48,809 
 2,48,793 
Other than Approved Investments
 - 
 - 
(a)	 Debentures / Bonds
 - 
 - 
Total
 14,87,962 
 12,98,478 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
147
14
123
01
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Short term investments
	
Government securities and Government guaranteed bonds
 24,634 
 8,145 
including Treasury bills
Other approved securities
 - 
 - 
Other investments
(a)	 Shares
	
(aa)	Equity
 - 
 - 
	
(bb)	Preference
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Mutual Funds
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Derivative Instruments
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Debentures / Bonds
 5,508 
 11,688 
(e)	 Other securities
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
(g)	 Investment properties - Real estate
 - 
 - 
Investment in infrastructure and housing
 34,670 
 18,625 
Other than Approved Investments
 - 
 - 
(a)	 Debentures / Bonds
 - 
 - 
Total
 64,812 
 38,458 
Total investments - Policyholders
 15,52,774 
 13,36,936 
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
In India
 15,52,774 
 13,36,936 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 15,52,774 
 13,36,936 
Notes - 
1.	
Aggregate value of investments other than listed equity securities & derivative instruements
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Long-term investment 
Book value
 12,98,332 
 11,40,312 
Market value
 13,33,981 
 11,49,717 
Short-term investment 
Book value
 64,812 
 38,458 
Market value
 64,884 
 38,443 
2	
a.	
Long term other approved securities include investment in 100% Government of India backed
	
	
bond amounting to ₹ 30,572 lakhs (For the year ended March 31, 2024  ₹ 23,085 lakhs)
	
b.	
Short term other approved securities include investment in 100% Government of India backed
	
	
bond ₹ Nil (For the year ended March 31, 2024  Nil)
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
148
Schedule 9 - Loans
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Security-wise classification
Secured
(a)	 On mortgage of property
	
(aa)	In India
 - 
 - 
	
(bb)	Outside India
 - 
 - 
(b)	 On Shares, Bonds, Govt Securities
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Others
 - 
 - 
Unsecured
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
Borrower-wise classification
 - 
(a)	 Central and State Governments
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Banks and Financial Institutions
 - 
 - 
(c)	
Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Industrial Undertakings
 - 
 - 
(e)	 Companies
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
Performance-wise classification
(a)	 Loans classified as standard
	
(aa)	In India
 - 
 - 
	
(bb)	Outside India
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Non-performing loans less provisions
	
(aa)	In India
 - 
 - 
	
(bb)	Outside India
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
Maturity-wise classification
(a)	 Short Term
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Long Term
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
	
Grand Total
 - 
 - 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
149
14
123
01
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
Cost/Gross Block
Depreciation
Net Block
Opening Additions
Deletions
Closing
Upto 
Last Year
For the 
year
On Sales/ 
Adjustments
To Date
As at March 
31, 2025
As at March 
31, 2024
Goodwill
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Intangibles - Software
750 
210 
71 
889 
647 
142 
71 
718 
171 
103 
Land - Freehold
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Leasehold Property
1,377 
403 
87 
1,693 
439 
208 
44 
603 
1,090 
938 
Buildings
12,211 
- 
- 
12,211 
567 
233 
- 
800 
11,411 
11,644 
Furniture and fittings
614 
102 
33 
683 
183 
60 
15 
228 
455 
431 
Information Technology 
Equipments
4,298 
1,081 
415 
4,964 
2,524 
1,027 
406 
3,145 
1,819 
1,774 
Vehicles
- 
40 
- 
40 
- 
3 
- 
3 
37 
- 
Office equipments
1,232 
246 
28 
1,450 
752 
223 
26 
949 
501 
480 
Freehold Improvements
889 
8 
- 
897 
233 
89 
- 
322 
575 
656 
Others - Assets less than 
threshold
142 
46 
7 
181 
142 
46 
7 
181 
- 
- 
Total
21,513 
2,136 
641 
23,008 
5,487 
2,031 
569 
6,949 
16,059 
16,026 
Previous year
20,286 
1,771 
544 
21,513 
4,225 
1,782 
521 
5,486 
16,026 
16,061 
Capital work in progress
97 
249 
Grand Total
16,156 
16,275 
Previous year
16,275 
16,201 
Schedule 11 - Cash and Bank Balances
As on March 31, 2025	
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Cash balance (including cheques(1), drafts and stamps)
 2,482 
 2,343 
Bank balances
(a)	 Deposit accounts
	
(aa)	Short-term (due within 12 months)*
 2,433 
 - 
	
(bb)	Others(2)
 29 
 27 
(b)	 Current accounts
 18,961 
 33,236 
(c)	
Others
 - 
 - 
Money at call and short notice
(a)	 with Banks
 - 
 - 
(b)	 with Other institutions
 - 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 23,905 
 35,606 
Balances with non-scheduled banks included in 2 and 3 above
CASH & BANK BALANCES
In India
 23,905 
 35,606 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
Total
 23,905 
 35,606 
Note 1: Cheques on hand amount to ₹ 2,482 Lakhs on March 31, 2025; & ₹ 2,343 Lakhs on March 31, 2024
Note 2: Other Deposits includes Fixed Deposit given for Bank Guarantee given for a period more than 3 months.
* Other than fixed Deposits forming part of Investments assets which is reflected under Schedule 8 & Schedule 8A - Investments. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
150
Schedule 12 - Advances and Other Assets
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Advances
Reserve deposits with ceding companies
 - 
 - 
Application money for investments
 - 
 - 
Prepayments
 4,051 
 3,825 
Advances to officers / directors
 - 
 - 
Advance tax paid and taxes deducted at source 
 1,461 
 562 
(net of provision for tax)
Goods & Service tax credit
 3,484 
 2,045 
Others
	
MAT credit entitlement
 - 
 - 
	
Other advances
 524 
 1,858 
Total - Advances (A)
 9,520 
 8,290 
Other Assets
Income accrued on investments
 50,384 
 35,889 
Outstanding premiums
 1,462 
 143 
	
Less: Provisions for doubtful debts
 - 
 - 
Agents’ balances
 8,297 
 10,342 
Foreign agencies balances
 - 
 - 
Due from other entities carrying on insurance business (incl. reinsurers)
 78,457 
 37,120 
	
Less: Provisions for doubtful debts
 - 
 - 
Dues from subsidiaries / holding company
 1 
 - 
Investments held for unclaimed amounts of policyholders
 2,361 
 1,261 
Interest on investments held for unclaimed amount of policyholders 
 340 
 166 
Deposit with Reserve Bank of India
 - 
 - 
[Pursuant to section 7 of Insurance Act,1938]
Others
Unsettled investment contracts receivable
 - 
 1 
Other assets
 8,809 
 9,985 
Excess in gratuity fund
 - 
 3 
Total - Other assets (B)
 1,50,111 
 94,910 
Total
 1,59,631 
 1,03,200 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
151
14
123
01
Schedule 13 - Current Liabilities
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
Particulars
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Agents’ balances
 29,642 
 26,310 
Balances due to other insurance companies
 24,457 
 11,945 
Deposits held on re-insurance ceded
 - 
 - 
Premiums received in advance
	
(a)	 For Long term policies
 2,34,467 
 1,81,043 
	
(b)	 for Other Policies
 6,742 
 4,702 
Unallocated premiums
 26,933 
 26,441 
Sundry creditors
 18,716 
 19,909 
Due to subsidiaries / holding company
 - 
 51 
Claims outstanding
 9,26,251 
 7,27,523 
Dues to officers / directors
Unclaimed amounts of policyholders
 2,097 
 1,231 
Income accured on unclaimed amounts
 340 
 166 
Others
	
Statutory dues payable
 2,050 
 2,653 
	
Employee payable
 324 
 756 
Interest payable on debenture/bonds
 - 
 - 
Goods and Service tax liabilities
 7,775 
 7,173 
	
Other current liabilities
 2,499 
 2,243 
	
Other policyholder dues
 8,112 
 6,531 
	
Unsettled investment contracts payable
 1 
 2 
Total
 12,90,406 
 10,18,679 
Unclaimed amount balance
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance
 1,397 
 886 
Add: Amount transferred to Unclaimed amount
 1,029 
 489 
Add: Cheques issued out of the unclaimed amount but not encashed by the 
policyholders (To be included only when the cheques are stale)
 - 
 - 
Add: Investment Income
 11 
 22 
Less: Amount paid during the period
 - 
 - 
Less: Transferred to SCWF
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance of Unclaimed Amount Fund
 2,437 
 1,397 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
152
Schedule 14 - Provisions
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Reserve for unearned premium reserve
 3,87,217 
 3,68,732 
Reserve for premium deficiency
 - 
 - 
For taxation (less advance tax paid and taxes deducted at source)
 - 
 - 
Provision for proposed dividend
 - 
 - 
For Employee Benefits
Gratuity
 156 
 - 
Leave encashment
 557 
 491 
Others
(i)	
Rent equalisation reserve
 1,388 
 992 
Total
 3,89,318 
 3,70,215 
Schedule 15 - Misc expenditure to the extent not written off
As on March 31, 2025
₹ in lakhs
INVESTMENTS
 As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Discount allowed on issue of shares and debentures
 - 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
153
14
123
01
1.	
Background
	
“Go Digit General Insurance Limited (“the Company”) 
was incorporated on December 07, 2016, under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and is a subsidiary of Go Digit 
Infoworks Services Private Limited. The Company 
received a certificate of registration from the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
(IRDAI) on September 20, 2017 to undertake General 
Insurance business with registration number 158 and 
subsequently commenced operations in October 2017.
The Company has completed its Initial Public Offer 
(IPO) and accordingly the Company’s equity shares 
are listed on National Stock Exchange (NSE) and 
Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) since May 23, 2024.”
2.	
Significant accounting policies
	
A.	 Basis of preparation
	
	
These financial statements have been prepared 
and presented on a going concern basis in 
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles followed in India under the historical 
cost convention, unless otherwise specifically 
stated, on an accrual basis and in accordance 
with the applicable provisions of the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority Of 
India 
(Actuarial, 
Finance 
and 
Investment 
Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 2024 (the 
“IRDAI Actuarial & Allied Functions Regulations 
2024”) read with Master Circular issued their 
under (Actuarial & Allied Functions, 2024)’, 
the Insurance Act, 1938 (the “Insurance Act”), 
the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 (the “IRDAI Act”), circulars 
/ notifications issued by IRDAI from time to time, 
the Accounting Standards (AS) specified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
“Companies Act”), to the extent applicable and 
the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 
and orders / directions prescribed by the IRDAI 
in this behalf and current practices prevailing 
within the insurance industry in India, to the 
extent applicable to the financial statements.
	
B.	 Use of Estimates
	
	
The preparation of the financial statements 
in conformity with the Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles in India (“Indian GAAP”) 
requires management to make judgments, 
estimates, and assumptions that affect the 
SCHEDULE-16 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES AND NOTES FORMING PART OF
THE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
(including contingent liabilities) as at the date 
of the financial statements, and the reported 
amounts of income and expenses for the reporting 
period. The estimates and assumptions used 
in the preparation of the financial statements 
are based on management’s evaluation of the 
relevant facts and circumstances up to, and as 
of, the date of the financial statements. Actual 
results may differ from those estimates. Any 
revision to accounting estimates is recognized 
prospectively.
	
C.	 Revenue recognition
	
	
Premium Income
	
	
Premium including reinsurance accepted (net of 
Goods and Services Tax), other than for Long-
term (with a policy term of more than one year) 
motor insurance policies for new cars and new 
two-wheelers sold on or after September 01, 
2018 and Long-term non-motor insurance 
policies issued on or after October 01, 2024, is 
recognised as income on receipt of complete 
information at the commencement of risk and for 
instalment policies it is recognised on instalment 
receipt. Any revisions in premium amount are 
recognised in the period in which it occurs and 
over the remaining period of the policy or period 
of risk, as appropriate.
	
	
In accordance with
	
	
(a) IRDAI 
notification 
no. 
IRDAI/NL/ClR/
MOT/08/2018 dated August 28, 2018, multi-
year premium received (net of Goods & 
Services Tax) for third party liability coverage 
under long-term motor insurance policies 
for new cars and new two wheelers sold on 
or after September 01, 2018, is recognized 
as income on a year-to-year basis over the 
policy period on 1/n basis where ‘n’ denotes 
the term of the policy in years;
	
	
(b) IRDAI 
notification 
no. 
IRDAI/ACTL/CIR/
MISC/80/05/2024 dated May 17, 2024, 
multi-year premium received (net of Goods & 
Services Tax) for certain applicable long-term 
non-motor insurance policies sold on or after 
October 01, 2024, is recognized as income on 
a year-to-year basis over the policy period on 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
154
1/n basis where ‘n’ denotes the term of the 
policy in years.
	
	
At the period’s end, estimates are made for 
reinsurance statements of accounts not yet 
received, based on available information and 
current trends. Any revisions in premium amount 
are recognised in the period in which it occurs 
and over the remaining period of the policy or 
period of risk, as appropriate.
	
	
Reinstatement premium is recorded as and 
when such premiums are recovered.
	
	
Premium earnings including for reinsurance 
accepted business (net of Goods and Service 
Tax) are recognised over the period of policy or 
period of risk, as appropriate. The Reinstatement 
premium is allocated on the same basis as 
the original premium over the balance term 
of the policy or period of risk, as appropriate. 
Any subsequent revision to the premium is 
recognised in the period in which it occurs and 
over the remaining period of the policy or period 
of risk, as appropriate.
	
	
Subsequent adjustments arising on cancellations 
of policies are recognised in the period in which 
they are cancelled.
	
	
Premium received in advance
	
	
Premium 
on 
policies 
booked 
during 
the 
current period which have risk inception date 
subsequent to balance sheet date represents 
premium received in advance
	
	
Income earned on investments
	
	
Interest income is recognised on accrual basis. 
Accretion of discount and amortisation of 
premium relating to debt securities is recognised 
over the holding / maturity period on constant 
yield-to-maturity basis.
	
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive the dividend is established.
	
	
The realised gain / loss on the transfer / sale of 
debentures and bonds is the difference between 
the transfer / sale price and the net amortised 
cost / carrying book value, which is computed 
on weighted average basis as on the date of 
transfer/sale. Sale consideration for realised gain 
/ loss is net of brokerage and taxes, if any.
	
	
The realised gain / loss on mutual funds, 
additional tier 1 (Basel III compliant) bonds, 
Real estate investment funds, Exchange traded 
funds, Alternative Investment Funds and listed 
equity shares is the difference between sale 
consideration and carrying cost as on the date 
of sale, determined on a weighted average 
cost basis and includes accumulated changes 
previously recognised under “Fair Value Change 
Account”.
	
	
Commission on reinsurance ceded
	
	
Commission on reinsurance ceded is recognised 
in the period in which reinsurance premium is 
ceded.
	
	
Profit commission under Re-Insurance Treaties 
wherever applicable is estimated and recognised 
as income on earned premium, as per calculation 
methodology and terms mentioned in the Treaty. 
These estimates are reviewed at each reporting 
date.
	
	
Adjustment to the scaled commission under 
reinsurance treaties, wherever applicable, is first 
assessed once all risks under the contracts are 
ceded and thereafter reviewed at the end of each 
reporting period and is recognised as income / 
expenditure and included under commission on 
reinsurance ceded.
	
D.	 Reinsurance premium ceded
	
	
Reinsurance premium ceded, other than for 
long-term motor insurance policies for new 
cars and new two wheelers sold on or after 
September 01, 2018 and long-term non-motor 
insurance policies sold on or after October 01, 
2024, is accounted for in the period in which the 
risk commences and over the period of risk.
	
	
In the case of long-term motor insurance policies 
for new cars and new two-wheelers sold on or 
after September 01, 2018 and long-term non-
motor insurance policies sold on or after October 
01, 2024, the reinsurance premium ceded is 
recognised on the insurance premium income 
allocated for the year simultaneously along 
with the recognition of the insurance premium 
income.
	
	
Unearned premium on reinsurance ceded is 
carried forward to the subsequent accounting 
period and is set off against related unearned 
premium income.
	
	
Any subsequent revisions to or cancellations 
of premiums are accounted for in the period in 
which they occur.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
155
14
123
01
	
	
Premium paid/payable for excess of loss 
reinsurance cover (including catastrophic cover) 
is accounted as per the terms of the reinsurance 
arrangements.
	
E.	
Reserve for unexpired risk
	
	
Reserve for unexpired risk represents that part 
of the net premium written which is attributable 
to and allocated to the succeeding accounting 
periods. In accordance with Circular No. IRDAI/
Reg/10/204/2024 dated March 22, 2024 and 
Master Circular on IRDAI Actuarial and Allied 
Functions 
Regulations, 
2024, 
reserve 
for 
unexpired risk is calculated based on 1/365 
method in all segments subject to minimum of 
100% of net premium written with respect of 
Marine Hull policies written during the period 
and are unexpired as on Balance Sheet date.
	
	
Reserve for unexpired risk on reinsurance 
accepted on account of terrorism pool is 
calculated as provided in Note 2. Q below.
	
F.	
Premium deficiency
	
	
Premium deficiency is recognised if the sum of 
expected claim costs, related expenses and 
maintenance costs (related to claims handling) 
exceeds the related reserve for unexpired risk.
	
	
Premium deficiency is assessed at each balance 
sheet date and is recognised at the segmental 
revenue account(s) level. The expected claims 
including related expenses and maintenance 
costs (related to claims handling) for premium 
deficiency reserve computation are estimated 
and duly certified by the Appointed Actuary.
	
G.	 Claims incurred
	
	
Claims incurred comprises of claims paid (net 
of reinsurance, salvage, co-insurance and 
other recoveries), change in estimated liability 
for outstanding claims made following a loss 
occurrence reported, change in estimated liability 
for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) and 
claims incurred but not enough reported (IBNER) 
and specific settlement costs comprising survey, 
legal, investigation, other directly attributable 
and allocated expenses.
	
	
Provision is made for the estimated value of 
outstanding claims at the Balance Sheet date 
net of reinsurance, salvage, co-insurance and 
other recoveries. Such provision is made on the 
basis of the ultimate amounts that are likely to 
be paid on each claim,as initially estimated by 
the management in light of past experience 
and progressively modified for changes as 
appropriate, on availability of further information 
and include claim settlement costs likely to be 
incurred to settle outstanding claims.
	
	
Claims (net of amounts receivable from reinsurers 
/ co-insurers) are recognised on the date of 
intimation based on estimates from surveyors / 
insured in the respective revenue accounts.
	
	
Adjustments required on account of negotiated 
settlements of outward re-insurance contracts 
are recognized in the period in which settlements 
are finalized and added to ‘claims paid - re-
insurance ceded’.
	
	
Adjustments required on account of negotiated 
settlements of co-insurance/inward re-insurance 
contracts are recognized in the period in which 
the settlements are finalized and added to/
reduced from ‘claims paid- Direct’/ ‘claims paid – 
re-insurance accepted”, as the case may be.
	
	
The Estimated liability for outstanding claims 
at balance sheet date is recorded net of claims 
recoverable 
from/payable 
to 
co-insurers/
reinsurers and salvage to the extent there is 
certainty of realisation.
	
	
At each balance sheet date,the estimated liability 
for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) 
and claims incurred but not enough reported 
(IBNER) at Gross and Net level is estimated 
by the Appointed Actuary in compliance with 
guidelines issued by Master Circular on Actuarial, 
Finance, and Investment Functions of Insurers 
and applicable provisions of Actuarial Practice 
Standard 21 issued by the Institute of Actuaries 
of India. The Appointed Actuary uses generally 
accepted actuarial methods for each product 
category as considered appropriate depending 
upon the availability of past data as well as 
appropriateness of the different methods to the 
different lines of businesses.
	
H.	 Acquisition costs
	
	
Acquisition costs are defined as costs that vary 
with and are primarily related to the acquisition 
of new and renewal insurance contracts viz. 
commission. These costs are expensed in the 
period in which they are incurred.
	
I.	
Borrowings
	
	
Borrowing costs are charged to the Profit and 
Loss account in the period in which they are 
incurred.
	
J.	
Property, Plant and Equipment and 
Intangibles
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at 
the cost of acquisition (including incidental 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
156
expenses relating to acquisition and installation 
of assets) and expenses directly attributable to 
bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use, less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment of assets, if any.
	
	
Intangible assets are stated at the cost of 
acquisition/development/improvement less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment, if 
any.
	
	
Significant direct expenditure on improvement to 
software is capitalised when it is probable that 
such expenditure will enable the software to 
generate future economic benefits in excess of 
its originally assessed standard of performance 
and such expenditure can be measured and 
attributed to the software reliably. Indirect 
expenditure and overheads are not capitalized.
	
	
Capital work in progress includes Property, Plant 
and Equipment and Intangibles not ready for the 
intended use and are carried at cost, comprising 
direct cost and related incidental expenses.
	
	
The depreciable amount for assets is the cost of 
an asset or other amount substituted for cost, 
less its estimated residual value, if any. The 
Company has, considering expected economic 
values post-retirement and other technical 
factors, estimated that the residual value of 
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangibles 
to be Nil.
	
	
Depreciation / amortisation on assets is provided 
on the straight-line method over the estimated 
useful life
	
	
Depreciation / amortisation on assets purchased 
/ disposed-off during the period, has been 
provided on pro-rate basis.
	
	
The estimated useful life used for the calculation 
of depreciation or amortisation is as follows for 
various classes of assets –
Nature of Fixed 
Assets
Management 
estimate of 
useful life
Useful life as 
per the limits 
prescribed in 
Schedule II of 
the Companies 
Act, 2013
(In years)
Building
60 years or 
lease term, 
whichever is 
lower
60 years
Nature of Fixed 
Assets
Management 
estimate of 
useful life
Useful life as 
per the limits 
prescribed in 
Schedule II of 
the Companies 
Act, 2013
(In years)
Information 
technology 
equipment – servers 
and networks
6 years
6 years
Information 
technology 
equipment – others
3 years
3 years
Furniture and 
fittings
10 years
10 years
Office equipment
5 years
5 years
Leasehold 
improvements
10 years or 
lease term, 
whichever is 
lower
N/A
Freehold 
Improvements
10 years
N/A
Vehicles
8 years
8 years
	
	
Intangible assets comprising computer software 
& improvements are amortised over a period of 
3 years, being the management’s estimate of the 
useful life of such intangibles
	
	
Assets costing less than ₹5,000 are fully 
expensed off during the year of purchase.
	
	
The estimated useful life of Property, Plant and 
Equipment and Intangibles & residual value 
are reviewed at the end of each financial year 
and the depreciation and amortisation period is 
revised to reflect the changed pattern, if any.
	
	
Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipments 
and Intangibles
	
	
The carrying values of Property, Plant and 
Equipments and Intangible are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date for impairment, if and when 
there are indications thereof. Impairment occurs 
when the carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment/intangible exceeds its value-in-use 
calculated as the present value of future cash 
flows expected to arise from its continuing use 
and its eventual disposal. The impairment loss to 
be expensed is determined as the excess of the 
carrying amount over the higher of the it’s net 
sales price or value-in-use, as determined above. 
After impairment, depreciation/amortisation is 
provided on the revised carrying value of the 
property, plant and equipment/intangible over it 
remaining useful life. Impairment loss previously 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
157
14
123
01
expensed is reversed in the subsequent period 
to the extent, the amount that is higher of its 
net sales price or value-in-use from it’s carrying 
amount.
	
K.	 Operating leases
	
	
Leases where the lessor effectively retains 
substantially all the risks and benefits of 
ownership of the leased assets are classified 
as operating leases. Operating lease payments 
made towards assets/premises are recognised 
as an expense in the revenue account(s) and 
adjustment for lease equalisation reserve in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principle is charged to profit and loss account, 
as per lease terms. These expenses are recorded 
net of rental income recovered through sub-
leasing.
	
	
Initial direct costs incurred specifically for an 
operating lease are charged to the revenue 
account(s) and profit and loss account as and 
when those are incurred.
	
L.	
Foreign currency transactions
	
	
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies 
are recorded in Indian Rupees at the exchange 
rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
	
	
At each balance sheet date, monetary items 
denominated in foreign currencies are converted 
into rupees equivalents at the exchange rate 
prevailing as of that date.
	
	
All exchange differences arising on settlement/
conversion of foreign currency transactions are 
included in the revenue account(s) or profit and 
loss account, as the case may be in the period in 
which they arise.
	
M.	 Investments
	
	
Initial Recognition
	
	
Investments are made and accounted for in 
accordance with the Insurance Act, 1938, IRDAI 
Actuarial and Allied Functions Regulations, 2024, 
as amended, the IRDAI Financial Statements 
Regulations and various other circulars / 
notifications issued by the IRDAI in this context 
from time to time.
	
	
Investments are recorded at cost on trade / 
acquisition date, which includes brokerage, 
taxes and stamp duty and exclude broken period 
interest.
 
 
Classification
	
	
Investments maturing (including call option 
date) within twelve months from the balance 
sheet date and investments made with specific 
intention to be disposed off within twelve months 
from the balance sheet date are classified as 
short-term investments.
	
	
Investments other than short-term investments 
are classified as long-term investments.
	
	
Investment 
funds 
are 
segregated 
into 
policyholders’ funds and shareholders’ funds at 
the security level in compliance with Circular No. 
IRDA/F&A/CIR/CPM/056/03/2016 dated April 
04, 2016.
	
	
Any deficit / shortfall in Policyholders’ Investments 
arising out of the loss in the Revenue Account(s) 
or otherwise is recouped by the transfer of 
securities from the Shareholders’ Investments to 
the Policyholders’ Investments on a half-yearly 
basis.
	
	
Policyholders’ fund is the sum total of a) 
outstanding claims including IBNR (incurred but 
not reported) & IBNER (incurred but not enough 
reported), b) unexpired premium reserve, c) 
premium deficiency, if any, d) catastrophe 
reserve, if any, and e) other liabilities net off other 
assets. Other liabilities comprise of premium 
received in advance, unallocated premium, 
balance due to other insurance companies, and 
due to policyholders. Other assets comprise of 
outstanding premium, dues from other entities 
carrying 
on 
insurance 
business 
(including 
reinsurers), balance with Terrorism Pool.
	
	
Shareholders’ funds comprise of share capital, 
including reserves and surplus, less accumulated 
losses, 
if 
any, 
preliminary 
expenses 
and 
miscellaneous expenditure to the extent not 
written off or adjusted.
	
	
Valuation
	
	
All debt securities excluding for additional tier 1 
(Basel III compliant) perpetual bonds and non-
convertible preference shares are considered 
as ‘held to maturity’ and accordingly stated at 
historical cost subject to amortisation of premium 
or accretion of discount on constant yield to 
maturity basis in the Revenue Account(s) and in 
the Profit and Loss Account over the period of 
maturity / holding.
	
	
Investments in mutual funds, additional tier 1 
(Basel III compliant) bonds, listed equity shares, 
Real estate investment funds, Exchange traded 
funds and Alternative Investment Funds are 
valued at fair value through Fair Value Change 
Account as at balance sheet date.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
158
	
	
Fair value for listed equity investments, Real 
estate investment funds & Exchange traded 
funds is derived basis last quoted closing price 
on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) being 
selected as primary exchange as required by 
IRDAI Actuarial and Allied Functions Regulation 
2024, as amended. In case if stock is not listed 
on NSE, the last quoted closing price from BSE 
Limited is taken for fair valuation.
	
	
The fair value of mutual funds is derived basis 
of NAV published by the Association of Mutual 
Funds of India (AMFI).
	
	
The fair value of Alternate Investment fund is 
derived basis of NAV published by the fund 
house.
	
	
Valuation of additional tier 1 (Basel III compliant) 
bonds is done as published by CRISIL which in 
turn are based on market yield rates published 
by rating agency registered with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in 
compliance with circular no: SEBI/HO/IMD/DF4/
CIR/P/2021/034
	
	
Fair value change account
	
	
In accordance with the IRDAI Actuarial and Allied 
Functions Regulations 2024, any unrealised 
gain/loss arising due to change in fair value of 
mutual fund investments, additional tier 1 (Basel 
III compliant) bonds, listed equity shares, Real 
estate investment funds, Exchange traded funds 
and alternative investment funds are accounted 
in ‘Fair value change account’ and carried 
forward in the balance sheet and is not available 
for distribution as dividend.
	
	
Impairment of investments
	
	
The Company assesses whether any other 
than temporary impairment has occurred on its 
investments at each balance sheet date. If any 
such indication exists, then the carrying value 
of such investment is reduced to its recoverable 
amount/market value on the balance sheet 
date and impairment loss is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account. If, at a balance sheet 
date, there is any indication that a previously 
assessed impairment loss no longer exists then 
the impairment loss, earlier recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account, is reversed and the 
investment is restated to that extent.
	
N.	 Employee benefits
 
 
Short-term employee benefits
	
	
All employee benefits payable within twelve 
months of rendering of service are classified 
as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such 
as salaries, bonuses, short-term compensated 
absences and other non-monetary benefits 
are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service. All short-
term employee benefits are accounted on an 
undiscounted basis.
 
 
Long-term employee benefits
	
	
The Company has both, defined contribution and 
defined benefit plans. The plans are financed 
by the Company and in case of some defined 
contribution plans, by the Company along with 
its employees.
 
 
• 
Defined contribution plans
	
	
	
These are plans in which the Company 
contributes prescribed percentages of the 
qualifying salary of eligible employees, 
on a monthly basis to funds managed by 
Employee Provident Fund Organisation in 
accordance with the relevant regulations 
and does not have any legal or informal 
obligation to pay additional sums. These 
comprise of contributions to the employees’ 
provident fund and family pension fund. 
The Company’s payments to defined 
contribution plans are expensed off during 
the period in which employees perform the 
services.
 
 
• 
Defined benefit plans
	
	
	
The company is required to pay prescribed 
percentage of qualifying salary for every 
completed year of service as Gratuity to 
employees on their separation/retirement 
after continuous service of five years subject 
to a maximum of ₹ 20 Lakhs, in accordance 
with the relevant regulations.
	
	
	
Expenses for this defined benefit statutory 
gratuity are calculated as at each Balance 
Sheet date based on actuarial valuation 
carried out using the Projected unit credit 
method by an independent external actuary. 
Actuarial losses and gains are charged 
off to Revenue account(s)/Profit and loss 
account.
 
 
• 
Other long-term employee benefits
	
	
	
Provision for other long-term benefits 
includes 
accumulated 
compensated 
absences that are entitled to be carried 
forward 
for 
availment 
in 
service 
or 
encashment at the time of separation. The 
Company’s liability towards these other 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
159
14
123
01
long-term benefits are accrued based 
on actuarial valuation carried out using 
the Projected unit credit method by an 
independent external actuary. Actuarial 
losses and gains are charged off to Revenue 
account(s)/Profit and loss account.
 
 
• 
Long term Incentive Plan
	
	
	
The Company has a Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘LTIP’) for selected employees. The plan 
is a discretionary deferred compensation 
plan. It is a plan with annual accruals and 
a defined payment schedule. Provision for 
LTIP liability is accrued based on actuarial 
valuation carried out using Projected unit 
credit method (PUCM) by an independent 
external actuary.
	
O.	 Employee Stock Option Plan (“ESOP”)
	
	
The Company has an equity settled ESOP with 
a quantified benefit. Options granted under the 
ESOP are measured at fair value of the option 
on the grant date using the Black Scholes 
method. Grant-date fair value is recognized 
as an employee compensation expense in 
profit and loss account over the vesting period 
or debited to holding company as applicable 
with a corresponding liability recorded under 
ESOP Outstanding Reserve Account which is 
grouped under Reserves & Surplus. When the 
option is settled, the related liability in the ESOP 
Outstanding Reserve Account is transferred to 
share premium account along with excess of 
Grant Price over the face value.
	
P.	
Taxation
	
	
Income tax expenses comprise current tax (i.e. 
the amount of tax payable on the taxable income 
for the period determined in accordance with the 
Income-tax Act, 1961), and deferred tax charge 
or credit (reflecting the tax effects of timing 
differences between the accounting income and 
taxable income for the period).
	
	
Current tax
	
	
Current tax is the amount expected to be paid 
to the tax authorities after taking credit for 
allowances and exemptions in accordance with 
the Income-tax Act, 1961.
	
	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
charge 
or 
credit 
and 
the 
corresponding deferred tax liabilities or assets 
are recognised using the tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the 
extent there is reasonable certainty that the 
assets can be realised in future. However, where 
there is unabsorbed depreciation or carried 
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax 
assets are recognised only to the extent there is 
virtual certainty backed by convincing evidence 
that sufficient future taxable income will be 
available against which the deferred tax assets 
can be realised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are reviewed as at balance 
sheet date and written down or written up to 
reflect the amount that is reasonably certain to 
be realised.
	
	
Goods and Services tax
	
	
Goods and Services tax (“GST”) collected (net of 
refunds) is considered as a liability against which 
GST paid for eligible input services, to the extent 
claimable, is adjusted and the net liability is 
remitted to the appropriate authority. Unutilised 
GST credits, if any, are carried forward under 
“Other Assets” and disclosed in Schedule 12 for 
adjustment in subsequent periods. At the end of 
every reporting periods, the Company assesses 
whether the unutilised GST credits are eligible 
for carrying forward to subsequent period as per 
the relevant legal provisions. Any ineligible GST 
credit is expensed off in Revenue account on 
such determination. GST liability to be remitted 
to the appropriate authority is disclosed under 
“Other – Statutory dues payable” in Schedule 13.
	
Q.	 Terrorism Pool
	
	
In accordance with the requirements of IRDAI, 
the Company, together with other insurance 
companies, participates in the Terrorism Pool. 
This pool is managed by General Insurance 
Corporation of India (“GIC Re”). Amounts 
collected as terrorism premium, as decided by 
the Terrorism Pool Underwriting committee, 
are ceded at 100% of the terrorism premium 
collected to the Terrorism Pool, subject to 
conditions and overall limit of 2,000 crore.
	
	
In accordance with the terms of the agreement, 
GIC Re retrocedes to the Company terrorism 
premium to the extent of the Company’s agreed 
share (i.e. 0.50%) in the pool, which is recorded 
as reinsurance accepted. Such reinsurance 
accepted is recorded on the basis of quarterly 
statements received from GIC Re. Reinsurance 
accepted on account of terrorism pool is recorded 
with the latest statement received from GIC Re, 
which is generally one quarter in lag.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
160
	
	
The company’s participates in “Terrorism pool 
excess of loss Reinsurance Protection” program.
	
	
The entire amount of reinsurance accepted for 
the current period on this account, up to the 
above date, has been carried forward to the 
subsequent accounting period as unexpired risk 
reserve for subsequent risks, if any, to be borne 
by the Company.
	
R.	 Contribution to solatium fund
	
	
In accordance with the requirements of IRDAI 
circular dated March 18, 2003 and based on the 
decision made by the General Insurance Council 
in its meeting held on May 06, 2005 and further 
on April 01, 2010, the Company provides for 
contributions to solatium fund, established by 
the Central Government, at 0.1% of the total 
third-party premium of motor policies during the 
period. The outstanding amount payable to the 
fund manager as of the balance sheet date is 
included in Claims Outstanding.
	
S.	
Segment reporting
	
	
The Company has classified and disclosed 
segmental information for Fire, Marine and 
Miscellaneous classes of business based on 
the primary segments identified under IRDAI 
Actuarial and Allied Functions Regulations, 2024 
read with AS 17 – Segment Reporting specified 
under section 133 of Companies Act, 2013.
	
	
There are no reportable geographical segments, 
as all business is written in India.
	
	
Allocation of income and expenses to specific 
segments (including sub-segment) is done in 
the following manner, which is applied on a 
consistent basis.
	
	
Allocation of investment income
	
	
Investment income earned on the investment 
identified out of shareholders fund is credited to 
profit and loss account.
	
	
Investment income earned on the investments 
identified out of policyholders’ funds is allocated 
to the various segments on the basis of average 
of unallocated premium, premium received 
in advance, reserves for unexpired risks and 
outstanding claims of the respective segments.
	
	
Allocation of other income
	
	
Other income which are directly attributable and 
identifiable to business segments are allocated 
to the respective business segments.
	
	
As required under (Actuarial, Finance and 
Investment Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 
2024, excess of ‘Operating Expenses related to 
Insurance Business’ over the allowable limits at 
the Company level is accounted as ‘Contribution 
from Shareholders Funds towards excess EOM’ 
in Revenue Account and as ‘Contribution to 
Policyholders Funds towards Excess EOM’ in 
Profit and loss account.
	
	
Such Contribution from Shareholders Funds 
towards excess EOM is further allocated to 
various business segments in proportion to 
their excess as if allowable limits are applied 
individually at the segment level.
	
	
Other income, other than above, which are not 
directly attributable and identifiable to business 
segments, are apportioned on the basis of 
average of unallocated premium, premium 
received in advance, reserves for unexpired 
risks and outstanding claims of the respective 
segments
	
	
Allocation of operating expenses relating to 
business segments
	
	
Expenses other than those related to Insurance 
Business and those incurred towards creating 
long-term value and enhancing long term value 
for shareholders have been charged to Profit & 
Loss Account.
	
	
Operating 
expenses 
which 
are 
directly 
attributable 
and 
identifiable 
to 
business 
segments are allocated to the respective 
business segments.
	
	
Operating 
Expenses 
related 
to 
Insurance 
Business, which are not directly attributable and 
identifiable to business segments, are allocated 
between product classes / business group 
they relates to and apportioned basis suitable 
expense driver such as net written premium, 
gross written premium, group size count and 
number of policies at such product class / group 
level.
	
	
Segment revenue & results have been disclosed 
in the Revenue accounts.
	
T.	
Earnings per share (EPS)
	
	
Earnings 
considered 
for 
calculating 
EPS 
comprises net profit or loss after tax. The 
number of shares used in computing basic EPS is 
weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the reporting period.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
161
14
123
01
	
	
The number of shares used in computing diluted 
EPS comprises of weighted average number of 
shares considered for deriving basic EPS and 
also weighted average number of equity shares 
which could have been issued on conversion of 
all dilutive potential equity shares.In computing 
diluted earnings per share only potential equity 
shares that are dilutive are considered.
	
	
Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed to 
be converted as at the beginning of the period 
unless issued at a later date. The dilutive 
potential equity shares are adjusted for the 
Unamortised cost, proceeds receivable had the 
shares been actually issued at fair value, being 
average of closing rate quoted daily during the 
last six months period at NSE. Dilutive potential 
equity shares are determined independently for 
each period presented.
	
	
Potential equity shares are deemed to be dilutive 
only if their conversion to equity shares would 
decrease net profit per share from continuing 
ordinary operations.
	
U.	 Provisions and contingencies
	
	
A provision is recognised when the Company 
has a present legal obligation as a result of a 
past event and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, 
in respect of which a reliable estimate can be 
made. Provisions, excluding retirement benefits, 
are not discounted to their present value and are 
determined based on the best estimate required 
to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date. These are reviewed at each balance sheet 
date and adjusted to reflect the current best 
estimates.
	
	
Contingent losses arising from claims other than 
insurance claims, litigation, assessment, fines, 
penalties, etc. are recorded when it is probable 
that a liability has been incurred and the amount 
can be reasonably estimated.
	
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability, other than 
those under policies, is made when there is a 
possible obligation or a present obligation that 
may not result in an outflow of resources.
	
	
Show cause notices / summons issued by various 
government authorities are not considered as 
obligations. When demand notices are raised 
against such show cause notices and are 
disputed by the Company, these are classified as 
disputed obligations.
	
	
When there is a possible obligation or a present 
obligation, in respect of which, the likelihood of 
outflow of resources is remote, no provision or 
disclosure is made.
	
	
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the 
Financial Statements.
	
	
Contingent assets are neither recognised nor 
disclosed in the Financial Statements.
	
V.	 Receipts and payments account & cash 
and cash equivalents
	
	
Receipts and Payments Account has been 
prepared as prescribed by IRDAI (Actuarial, 
Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers) 
Regulations, 2024 under the ‘Direct method’ 
in accordance with Accounting Standard 3 on 
Cash Flow Statements notified under the Section 
133 of the Companies Act.
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash comprises cash on hand, cheques on 
hand and demand deposits with banks. Cash 
equivalents are term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less from the date 
of acquisition, highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible into known amount of cash 
and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
change in value.
	
W.	 Expenses related to issue of securities
	
	
Expenses related to issue of Securities are 
adjusted against the share premium (securities 
premium) account as per section 52 of 
Companies Act, 2013.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
162
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
3.	
Contingent Liabilities
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
1
Partly paid-up investments
 - 
 - 
2
Claims, other than against policies, not acknowledged as debts by 
the company.
 - 
 - 
3
Underwriting commitments outstanding (in respect of shares and 
securities)
 - 
 - 
4
Guarantees given by or on behalf of the Company
 - 
 - 
5
Statutory demands / liabilities in dispute, not provided for 
 - 
 - 
6
Reinsurance obligations to the extent not provided for
 - 
 - 
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Pending proceedings do not include a matter where during the Financial Year 2021-22, GST authorities had 
initiated an industry-wide investigation on account of alleged ineligible input tax credit where claims are settled 
to insured and applicability of GST on salvage adjusted on motor claims settled during the period from July 
2017 to March 2022. The Company, in its Reply to Notice of Summon dated March 29, 2022, and additional 
summons received, had submitted requested details from time to time and appeared before tax authorities to 
record statements and deposited ₹ 1,037 lakhs under protest. The Company received a Show Cause Notice 
(“SCN”) on December 27, 2023 for ₹ 2,547 lakhs and against this SCN, company has duly filed its response on 
December 17, 2024 and attended the personal hearing on this matter as well.  Further on perusal of our reply, 
GST Authorities has accepted our view and dropped the entire demand amount of ₹ 2,547 lakhs by passing 
Nil Demand order on January 24, 2025.  We are in the process of filing Refund application against amount 
deposited.
	
2.	
GST authorities had initiated an industry-wide investigation on account of alleged non payment of GST on 
coinsurance inward premium and reinsurance commission. Company received show cause notice on September 
23, 2023 stating GST Liability of ₹ 15,480 lakhs for non-payment of GST on Coinsurance premium accepted 
as a follower and non-payment of GST on Reinsurance Commission earned on reinsurance ceded for period 
July 2017 to March 2022 against which Final Demand Order was raised on December 30, 2023. Company has 
filed writ petition in the Mumbai High Court on March 11, 2024 against the demand issued. Further, Ministry 
of Finance has issued circular on January 28, 2025, Regularizing payment of GST on co-insurance premium 
apportioned by the lead insurer to the co-insurer and on ceding /re-insurance commission for the past period as 
well. Company has filed Interim application in the Mumbai High Court on February 10, 2025 for consideration 
of the above circular while issuing order.
	
4.	
Encumbrances on assets
	
	
The assets of the Company are free from all encumbrances except for fixed deposit as on March 31, 2025 
amount to ₹ 29 Lakhs ( as on March 31, 2024 - ₹ 27 Lakhs) which is placed under lien against bank guarantee 
issued by the banks.
	
5.	
Capital commitments
	
	
Outstanding capital commitments as on March 31, 2025 amount to ₹ 1,587 Lakhs (as on March 31, 2024 - 
₹ 175 Lakhs).
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
163
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
6.	
Claims 
	
	
All claims net of reinsurance ceded are incurred and paid in India.
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
In India
 3,87,168 
 3,33,821 
2
Outside India
 - 
 - 
	
	
The ageing of gross claims outstanding (Excluding IBNR) is as under –
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
1
More than 6 months
 2,56,415 
 1,92,864 
2
Others
 96,039 
 88,494 
3
Total
 3,52,454 
 2,81,358 
	
	
[Claims settled and remaining unpaid for more than six months to policyholders/Beneficiaries as on March 31, 
2025 – ₹  34 lakhs (as on March 31, 2024 is ₹ 34 lakhs)]
	
7.	
Claims where the payment period exceeds four years are Nil (for the year ended March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
8.	
Premium
	
	
All premium net of reinsurance is written and received in India.
	
	
Premium income recognised on varying risk pattern is Nil (for the year ended March 31, 2024 is Nil).
	
9.	
Extent of risks retained and reinsured
	
	
Extent of risk retained and reinsured with respect to gross written premium (excluding excess of loss reinsurance 
and catastrophe reinsurance premium of ₹ 4,204 lakhs (for the year ended March 31, 2024 ₹ 4,025 lakhs) is set 
out below
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025–
Particulars
Basis
Retention
Cession
%
%
Fire
Total sum insured 
18.86%
81.14%
Marine Cargo
Value at risk 
16.23%
83.77%
Marine Hull
Value at risk 
2.00%
98.00%
Miscellaneous
Motor
Total sum insured 
95.95%
4.05%
Workmen’s Compensation
Value at risk 
96.00%
4.00%
Public Liability
Value at risk 
11.79%
88.21%
Engineering
Total sum insured 
17.71%
82.29%
Aviation
Value at risk 
66.00%
34.00%
Personal Accident
Value at risk 
11.64%
88.36%
Health Insurance
Value at risk 
80.33%
19.67%
Travel Insurance
Value at risk 
96.00%
4.00%
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
164
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Basis
Retention
Cession
%
%
Crop
Value at risk 
100.03%
-0.03%
Other
Value at risk 
48.41%
51.59%
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024–
Particulars
Basis
Retention
Cession
%
%
Fire
Total sum insured 
17.08%
82.92%
Marine Cargo
Value at risk 
8.10%
91.90%
Marine Hull
Value at risk 
29.67%
70.33%
Miscellaneous
Motor
Total sum insured 
95.96%
4.04%
Workmen’s Compensation
Value at risk 
96.00%
4.00%
Public Liability
Value at risk 
8.00%
92.00%
Engineering
Total sum insured 
15.28%
84.72%
Aviation
Value at risk 
NA
NA
Personal Accident
Value at risk 
93.52%
6.48%
Health Insurance
Value at risk 
96.42%
3.58%
Travel Insurance
Value at risk 
96.01%
3.99%
Crop
Value at risk 
99.94%
0.06%
Other
Value at risk 
36.55%
63.45%
	
10.	 Investments
	
	
Value of contracts in relation to investments for 
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
1
Purchases where deliveries are pending
 - 
 - 
2
Sales where payments are pending
 - 
 - 
	
	
Historical cost of investments which have been valued on market value basis	
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
1
Mutual funds, additional tier 1 (Basel III compliant) bonds, 
listed equity shares, Real estate investment funds, Exchange 
traded funds and Alternative Investment Funds
 3,47,923 
 1,87,747 
	
	
All investments are made in accordance with the Insurance Act 1938 and IRDAI Actuarial and Allied Functions 
Regulations, 2024 as amended.
	
	
The Company has no non-performing assets for income recognition as per directions of IRDAI (For the year 
ended March 31, 2025 is Nil).
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
165
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
	
Particulars of investments other than those valued at market value –
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
1
Aggregate market value
 16,12,649 
 13,44,376 
2
Aggregate historical cost / amortised cost
 15,73,648 
 13,35,729 
	
11.	 Managerial Remuneration
	
	
IRDAI vide its circular no IRDAI/F&A/GDL/MISC/141/6/2023 dated June 30, 2023 has prescribed, Guidelines on 
Remuneration of Directors and Key Managerial Persons of Insurers effective from financial year 2023-24, which 
replaced and superseded Guidelines on Remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Managing Director /Chief 
Executive Officer / Whole-time Directors of Insurers issued by IRDAI vide circular bearing number IRDA/F&A/
GDL/LSTD/155/08/2016 dated August 5, 2016.Pursuant to the same, the Company has adopted new policy 
on appointment and remuneration of Directors and policy on remuneration of employees, in substitution of its 
erstwhile remuneration policy to align it with IRDAI’s new remuneration guidelines.
	
	
No remuneration has been paid to the Non-Executive/Independent directors of the company for financial year 
2024-2025 except sitting fees paid for meetings attended.
	
	
Expenses towards gratuity and compensated absences provision are determined actuarially on an overall 
company basis quarterly and accordingly have not been considered in the above information. In addition to the 
above MD and KMPs are entitled to ESOP under the Company’s ESOP Scheme. During the year ended March 
31, 2025 Company has granted - 21,852 ESOP’s to MD & 1,85,879 to KMPs (For the year ended March 31, 2024 
- Nil of ESOP to MD & 6,494 to KMPs).
	
12.	 Sector-wise business based on gross direct premium income (GDPI)
	
	
Percentage of business sector – wise (Based on gross direct premium)
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025– 
Business Sector
GDPI
No. of Policies
No. of Lives
% of GDPI
Rural
 7,418 
 18,74,407 
 - 
0.88
Social
 76 
 2 
 18,64,134 
0.01
Urban
 8,39,722 
 1,03,02,906 
 - 
99.12
Total
 8,47,216 
 1,21,77,315 
 18,64,134 
100.00
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024– 
Business Sector
GDPI
No. of Policies
No. of Lives
% of GDPI
Rural
 78,771 
 22,81,060 
 - 
 9.92 
Social
 1,934 
 2 
 1,79,042 
 0.24 
Urban
 7,13,405 
 88,96,966 
 - 
 89.84 
Total
7,94,110
1,11,78,028
1,79,042
100
	
	
For FY 2024-25, the Company was governed by IRDAI ((Rural, Social Sector and Motor Third Party Obligations) 
Regulations, 2024 for the purpose of compliance to rural and social sector obligations. As per these Regulations, 
the Company is required to certify compliance with Rural and Social obligation on annual basis. Disclosure of 
Gross Direct Premium Income (GDPI),
	
	
No. of Policies, No. of Lives and % of GDPI in notes to account for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 
2024 are based on analysis done by the Management till March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 respectively.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
166
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
13.	 Assets taken on lease
	
	
The Company takes commercial premises on lease as well as enters into integrated facilities services agreements 
for ‘pay as you go’ model. The minimum lease payments to be made in future towards non-cancellable lease 
agreements are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
a.
not later than one year
 2,388 
 2,194 
b.
later than one year and not later than five years
 2,365 
 3,193 
c.
later than five years
 - 
 - 
	
	
The lease expense recognised for cancellable and non-cancellable agreements for the year ended March 31, 
2025 is ₹ 3,255 lakhs (for year ended March 31, 2024 ₹ 1,851 Lakhs) has been charged to Revenue Account.
	
14.	 Taxation
	
	
The Company has unabsorbed depreciation and carried forward losses under tax laws. In the absence of virtual 
certainty supported by convincing evidence that sufficient future taxable income will be available against which 
deferred tax assets can be recovered, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there is a deferred 
tax liability.
	
	
The components of the company’s deferred tax assets are tabulated as below: -
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on
March 31, 2024
Deferred Tax Liability
Property Plant & Equipment
 528 
 445 
Incorporation expenses
Total Deferred Tax Liability
 528 
 445 
Deferred Tax Asset 
Reserve for unexpired risks
 - 
 - 
Compensated Absence/Deferred Employee benefit expenses
 207 
 124 
Solatium Fund
 421 
 329 
Property Plant & Equipment
Gratuity
 39 
 - 
Unabsorbed Depreciation
 1,300 
 1,300 
Business loss to be carried forward
 5,871 
 16,614 
Total Deferred Tax Assets
 7,839 
 18,366 
Deferred Tax Asset recognized to the extent of Deferred Tax 
Liability
 (528)
 (445)
Deferred Tax Asset not recognized
 7,310 
 17,921 
Net Deferred Tax Assets/(Liability) recognized in Balance Sheet
 - 
 - 
Amount charged to Profit and Loss account
 - 
 - 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
167
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
15.	 Repo/Reverse repo transactions:
Particular
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
Outstanding as 
on March 31, 
2025
Securities sold under reverse repo 
(At cost)
Government Securities
 1,300 
 97,400 
 22,053 
 - 
Corporate Debt Securities
Securities purchased under reverse 
repo (At cost)
Government Securities
 1,300 
 97,383 
 22,023 
 23,981 
Corporate Debt Securities
Particular
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding 
during the year
Outstanding as 
on March 31, 
2024
Securities sold under reverse repo 
(At cost)
Government Securities
 200 
 37,900 
 11,092 
 - 
Corporate Debt Securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Securities purchased under reverse 
repo (At cost)
Government Securities
 200 
 37,894 
 11,051 
 7,793 
Corporate Debt Securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
16.	 Segment reporting
	
	
The statement on segment reporting is included as Annexure III.
	
17.	 Accounting ratios
	
	
The statement on accounting ratios is included as Annexure IV.
	
18.	 Employee Stock Option Plan
	
	
The statement on Employee stock option plan is included as Annexure V.
	
19.	 Employee benefits
	
A.	
Defined contribution plan
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Contribution to provident fund
 1,803 
 1,447 
2
Contribution to national pension scheme
 118 
 84 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
168
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
B.	
Defined benefit plan
	
	
Disclosure as per AS 15 – Employee Benefits for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
The Company has a defined gratuity plan payable to every eligible employee on separation from employment.
	
	
Gratuity
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.62%
7.09%
Rate of increase in compensation levels
9.00%
10.00%
Rate of return on plan assets
6.62%
7.09%
2
Demographic Assumptions
Mortality
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
Employee Turnover/ Withdrawal Rate
for band:
for band:
1 – 35%
1 – 35%
2 – 35%
2 – 35%
3 – 15%
3 – 15%
4 – 15%
4 – 15%
5 – 1%
5 – 1%
Retirement Age
58 years
58 years
3
Change in defined benefit obligation
At beginning of the year
 1,713 
 1,133 
Service cost
 532 
 423 
Interest cost
 134 
 96 
Actuarial (gains) / losses
 -35 
 145 
Acquisition/Business Combination/Divestiture
 (23)
 (29)
Benefits paid
 (127)
 (53)
Past service costs
 - 
 - 
At end of the year
 2,194 
 1,713 
4
Change in fair value of plan assets
At beginning of the year
 1,717 
 1,043 
Expected return on plan assets
 122 
 76 
Contributions received
 400 
 650 
Benefits paid
 (126)
 (52)
Actuarial gains / (losses)
 (73)
 - 
At end of the year
 2,038 
 1,717 
5
Amounts recognised in Balance Sheet
Defined benefit obligation
 2,194 
 1,713 
Fair value of plan asset
 (2,038)
 (1,717)
Liability recognised in Balance Sheet
 156 
 (3)
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
169
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
6
Amounts recognised in Revenue Account / Profit & Loss 
account
Current service cost
 532 
 423 
Interest cost
 134 
 96 
Expected return on plan asset
 (122)
 (76)
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Net actuarial (gains) / losses recognised  
 39 
 145 
Total expenses as per books
 583 
 588 
7
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
 122 
 76 
Actuarial gains / (losses) on plan assets
 (73)
 - 
Actual return on plan assets
 48 
 76 
	
	
Note: The management of the Company has provided a short term liability of ₹ 27 lakhs which is pertaining to 
94 employees who have already resigned as on March 31, 2025. This amount has been added to Total Liability 
and Current Liability.
	
	
Experience adjustment of five years is given below	
Date of Valuation
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2021
Defined Benefit Obligation
 2,194 
 1,714 
 1,133 
 721 
 364 
Fair value of Plan Assets
 2,038 
 1,717 
 1,043 
 580 
 390 
(Surplus)/Deficit
 156 
 (3)
 91 
 141 
 (26)
Experience Adjustments on Plan 
Assets
 (73)
 - 
 (21)
 (16)
 - 
(Gains)/losses due to change in 
Assumptions
 (90)
 107 
 (76)
 98 
 (5)
Experience (Gains)/Losses on 
Defined Benefit Obligation
 55 
 38 
 104 
 34 
 (37)
Total Actuarial (Gain)/Loss on 
Defined Benefit Obligation
 -35 
 145 
 28 
 132 
 (42)
	
	
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as 
follows:	
Particulars
As on
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024 
Investment with Insurer
100%
100%
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
170
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
	
Compensated absences / Leave encashment 	
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.62%
7.09%
Salary escalation rate
9.00%
10.00%
2
Demographic Assumptions
Mortality
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
Employee Turnover/ Withdrawal Rate
for band:
for band:
1 – 35%
1 – 35%
2 – 35%
2 – 35%
3 – 15%
3 – 15%
4 – 15%
4 – 15%
5 – 1%
5 – 1%
Retirement Age
58 years
58 years
3
Change in defined benefit obligation
At beginning of the year
 491 
 347 
Change/(Reduction) of Provision during the year
 66 
 145 
At end of the year
 557 
 491 
	
	
Note: The management of the Company has provided a short term liability of ₹ 11 lakhs which is pertaining to 
94 employees who have already resigned as on March 31, 2025. This amount has been added to Total Liability 
and Current Liability
	
	
Long term incentive plan 
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.49%
7.02%
2
Demographic Assumptions
Mortality
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
Employee Turnover/ Withdrawal Rate
for band:
for band:
1 – 17.5%
1 – 17.5%
2 – 17.5%
2 – 17.5%
3 – 7.5%
3 – 7.5%
4 – 7.5%
4 – 7.5%
5 – 0.5%
5 – 0.5%
3
Change in defined benefit obligation
At beginning of the year
 669 
 - 
Change/(Reduction) of Provision during the year
 (403)
 669 
At end of the year
 266 
 669 
	
	
The estimates of future salary increase considered in actuarial valuation considers Company’s philosophy 
towards employee remuneration regular increments price inflation and promotional increases.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
171
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
20.	 Related party disclosure
	
As per AS 18 – Related Party Disclosures related parties of the Company are as follows –
	
A.	 Description of relationship and name of party
	
	
Holding company
	
	
Go Digit Infoworks Services Private Limited
	
	
Key management personnel
	
	
Kamesh Goyal : Non-Executive Chairman
	
	
Jasleen Kohli : Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
	
	
Relatives of KMP with whom transactions have taken place during the year or previous year
	
	
Amrish Goyal Brother of Kamesh Goyal
	
	
Mohinder Singh Kohli Father of Jasleen Kohli
	
	
Aadesh Goyal Brother of Kamesh Goyal
	
	
Entities in which KMP/ relative of KMP are interested with whom transactions have taken place 
during the year or previous year
	
	
Go Digit Life Insurance Limited (Promotor Group Company)
	
	
Valueattics Reinsurance Limited (Promotor Group Company)
	
	
Oben Ventures LLP (Kamesh Goyal is a designated partner)
	
B.	 Details of transactions
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Related 
Party
Nature of 
Relationship with the 
Company
Description of 
Transactions / 
Categories
 For the year 
ended 
March 31, 
2025
 For the year 
ended 
March 31, 
2024
1
Expense Details
Go Digit Infoworks 
Services Private 
Limited
Holding Company and 
Company in which 
director is interested
FMS and Technology 
Service charges
 942 
 2,255 
Reimbursement of 
Expenses
 54 
 25 
Reimbursement of IPO 
Expenses
 1,167 
 - 
Purchase Of Fixed Asset
 36 
 - 
Go Digit Life Insurance 
Limited
Promotor Group 
Company
Other employee cost 
(Group Term Life 
Insurance Premium)
 120 
 100 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
172
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Related 
Party
Nature of 
Relationship with the 
Company
Description of 
Transactions / 
Categories
 For the year 
ended 
March 31, 
2025
 For the year 
ended 
March 31, 
2024
2
Revenue Earned 
Details
Go Digit Infoworks 
Services Private 
Limited
Holding Company and 
Company in which 
director is interested
Policy issued(Premium)
 8 
 9 
ESOP Cost allocation
 149 
 56 
Seat sharing recovery
 6 
 5 
Go Digit Life Insurance 
Limited
Promotor Group 
Company
Seat sharing recovery
 346 
 82 
Policy issued(Premium)
 130 
 69 
Reimbursement of 
Expenses incurred on 
behalf of Digit Life
 139 
 64 
Reimbursement of 
Commission on Combi 
Products incurred on 
behalf of Digit Life
 1 
 - 
Valueattics 
Reinsurance Limited
Promotor Group 
Company
Reimbursement of 
Expenses [Retiral 
benefits for employees 
transferred from GI to 
VRL]
 1 
 - 
Oben Ventures LLP
Director is a 
designated partner 
[Kamesh Goyal]
Reimbursement of 
Expenses [Employee 
insurance cost]
 0* 
 - 
3
Premium Receipt from 
KMP's & Directors & 
their relatives
Kamesh Goyal, Jasleen 
Kohli
Directors & KMPs
Insurance Premium
 0* 
 1 
Aadesh Goyal, Amrish 
Goyal & Mohinder 
Singh Kohli
Relatives of Directors 
& KMPs
Insurance Premium
 4 
 4 
4
KMP Remuneration
Jasleen Kohli
MD & CEO
Total Remuneration 
paid
 412 
 347 
Jasleen Kohli
MD & CEO
ESOP charge
 25 
 23 
5
Other Expenses 
Details
Jasleen Kohli
MD & CEO
Claims Payment
 - 
 1 
Aadesh Goyal & 
Mohinder Singh Kohli
Directors & KMPs
relatives
Claims Payment
 3 
 1 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
173
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
C.	 Details of Assets & Liabilities
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Related Party
Nature of Relationship 
with the Company
Whether Payable / 
Receivable
 As on 
March 31, 
2025
 As on 
March 31, 
2024
1
Go Digit Infoworks 
Services Private 
Limited
Holding Company and 
Company in which 
director is interested
Receivable
(Security Deposit)
 - 
 240 
Payable/(Recoverable) 
(FMS & Tech Services)
 - 
 54 
Payable (Premium 
Deposit)
 8 
 1 
Recoverable [Seat 
sharing]
 1 
 - 
Receivable towards 
ESOPs (Recovery)
 217 
 71 
2
Go Digit Life 
Insurance Limited
Promotor Group 
Company
Payable (Security Deposit 
-FMS)
 136 
 15 
Payable (Premium 
Deposit)
 21 
 11 
Receivable
(Recovery)
 124 
 34 
Receivable
(Premium Deposit)
 20 
 21 
Valueattics 
Reinsurance Limited
Promotor Group 
Company
Receivable [retiral 
benefits]
 1 
 - 
3
Investment from 
Directors and 
KMP's
Jasleen Kohli
Directors & KMPs
Outstanding variable pay
 90 
 86 
	
	
FMS- Facility Management Services
	
21. 	Loan restructuring
	
	
The Company has not given any loans as on March 31, 2025 (as on March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
22. 	Summary of Financial Statements
	
	
The summary of Financial Statements is included as Annexure VI.
	
23. 	Foreign exchange gain / (loss) net
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025 foreign exchange net gain earned by the Company is ₹30 Lakhs (for 
the year ended March 31, 2024 net gain ₹ 29 Lakhs) which is netted off in Schedule 4 under the heading 
‘Miscellaneous expenses’.
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, foreign currency exposure is ₹ 931 Lakhs (For year ended March 31, 
2024 ₹ 959 Lakhs).
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
174
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
24. 	Disclosure of other expenses
	
	
Expenses relating to outsourcing:
Expense Head
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Outsourcing expenses
 713 
 743 
Business support services
 501 
 663 
Employees' Remuneration and welfare
 3 
 - 
Information technology expenses
 83 
 - 
Legal and professional charges
 58 
 22 
Miscellaneous expenses
 33 
 15 
Printing and Stationery
 21 
 24 
Recruitment and Training expenses
 9 
 19 
Rent, rates and taxes
 6 
 - 
	
25.	 Earnings per share (EPS)	
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Net Profit / Loss after tax for the year
42,494
18,168
2
Weighted average number of equity shares (Nos)
Number of shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
87,51,64,404
87,40,17,893
Shares issued during the year
4,78,61,530
11,46,511
Number of shares outstanding at the end of the year
92,30,25,934
87,51,64,404
Weighted average number of shares outstanding for basic EPS
91,42,53,089
87,44,46,638
Weighted average number of shares outstanding for diluted EPS
91,95,62,651
88,66,68,624
3
Basic earnings per share (in ₹)
4.65
2.08
4
Diluted earnings per share (in ₹)
4.62
2.05
5
Nominal value per share (in ₹)
10
10
	
26.	 Dues to MSME
	
	
According to the information available with the Company dues, including any overdue amount, interest due 
thereon and interest paid during the year to micro and small enterprises as defined under Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 as on March 31, 2025 are as follows: 
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
i)
Principal amount due and remaining unpaid to any Supplier 
as at the end of reporting year
488
343
ii)
Interest due on principal amount remaining unpaid as at the 
end of reporting year
 - 
 - 
iii)
Amount of Interest along with principal amount paid to 
Supplier beyond due date of payment
 - 
 - 
iv)
Amount of interest accrued/ due and remaining unpaid at the 
end of reporting year
 - 
 - 
v)
Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in 
succeeding periods, until such date when the interest dues as 
above are actually paid to the small enterprise
 - 
 - 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
175
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
27.	 Premium deficiency
	
	
Premium deficiency for the Company as on March 31, 2025 is Nil (as on March 31, 2024– Nil) in accordance 
with the applicable provisions of the IRDAI Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers Regulations, 
2024 read with Master Circular issued their under Actuarial & Allied Functions, 2024.
	
28.	 Statement showing age-wise analysis of unclaimed amounts of policyholders
	
	
The Statement is included as Annexure VII.
	
29.	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Gross amount required to be spent and actually spent by the 
company on CSR initiatives is Nil. (For the year ended March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
30.	 Provision for free look period
	
	
As on March 31, 2025, the provision for free look period is ₹ 0.12 Lakhs (as on March 31, 2024 ₹ 0.07 Lakhs), as 
certified by Appointed Actuary.\
	
31.	 Litigations
	
	
The Company’s pending litigations/proceedings comprise of claims against the Company in various tribunals/
courts, proceedings pending with Tax Authorities and the Company’s/counterparty’s appeal against orders 
of lower courts/tribunals/tax authorities. The Company has reviewed all pending litigation/proceedings and 
ensured adequate provisions, wherever required and disclosed the contingent liabilities, wherever applicable, 
in its financial statements. The Company does not expect any material impact on its financial position with 
respect to the outcome of such litigations/proceedings. (Refer Note no. 3 of Schedule 16 for details on contingent 
liabilities) (as on March 31, 2024– Nil)
	
32.	 Long term contracts
	
	
As on March 31, 2025 the Company did not have any outstanding long term derivative contracts. (as on March 
31, 2024 – Nil)
	
33.	 Investor Education & Protection Fund
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025 & March 31, 2024 the Company is not required to transfer any amount into 
the Investor Education & Protection Fund.
	
34.	 Disclosure of other work given to auditors
	
	
Pursuant to Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by IRDAI on May 18, 2016, the services of statutory 
auditors are disclosed below
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Kirtane & Pandit LLP
-	
 Taxation matters
13
 3 
-	
Other Assurance Services
19
 70 
2
PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP
-	
Other Assurance Services
18
 64 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
176
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
35.	 Penalties levied by various government authorities during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
For the 
year ended 
Non 
compliance
Penalty 
awarded
Penalty 
paid
Penalty 
waived
1
Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India
March 31, 2025
NA
-
100
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
2
GST authorities
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
3
Income tax authorities
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
4
Any other tax authorities
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
5
Enforcement Directorate / 
Adjudicating Authority / Tribunal 
or any Authority under FEMA
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
6
Registrar of Companies / NCLT /  
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or 
any Authority under Companies 
Act, 2013
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
7
Penalty awarded by any Court / 
Tribunal for any matter including 
claim settlement but excluding 
compensation
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
8
Securities Exchange Board Of 
India/Stock Exchanges
March 31, 2025
NA
-
0*
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
9
Competition Commission of India
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
10
Any other Central / State / 
Local Government / Statutory 
Authority-(Professional Tax & 
EPFO Delayed Payment)
March 31, 2025
NA
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
NA
-
-
-
	
	
*2025- Exchanges levied penalty of ₹ 0.10 lakhs
	
36.	 Share Capital
	
	
The Company has allotted 4,13,60,294 Equity Shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 262 through the Initial 
Public Offer during the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company, pursuant to it’s Employee Stock Option Plan, allotted 
27,07,578 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at face value of ₹ 10 per share; 24,92,633 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at 
a premium of ₹ 17 per share; 11,18,816 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 65 per share; 1,64,569 
equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 162 per share; 15,587 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of 
₹ 304 per share; 2,053 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 375 per share.
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company allotted 48,301 equity shares (under ESOP exercised) of 
₹ 10 each at book value of ₹ 10 per share; 4,30,925 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 17 per share; 
6,47,740 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 65 per share; 18,911 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a 
premium of ₹ 162 per share; 634 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a premium of ₹ 304 per share.
	
	
Share Application Money pending allotment as on March 31, 2025 amounts to Nil (As on March 31, 2024- Nil).
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
177
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
37	 Code on Social Security
	
	
The Parliament of India had approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which could impact the contributions 
by the Company towards provident fund and gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has released 
draft rules for the Code on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020 and has invited suggestions from 
stakeholders which are under active consideration by the Ministry. The Company will complete its evaluation 
once the rules are notified and will give appropriate impact in the Financial Statements in the year in which the 
Code and related rules becomes effective.
	
38	 Rent Equalisation Charges
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024, Rent equalisation charges have been split into Rent, rates and taxes & 
Facility management charges based on underlying contracts.
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025, Rent equalisation charges have been charged to Profit and Loss account.
	
39	 Borrowings (Non-Convertible Debentures)
	
	
On December 11, 2023 & March 14, 2024, The Board of Directors of the Company have approved raising 
of capital by issuance of Unsecured, Unrated, Unlisted, Subordinated Redeemable Bonds  in the nature of 
Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) of  ₹ 20,000 Lakhs & ₹ 15,000 lakhs on a private placement basis, in 
accordance with the provisions of the IRDAI (Other Forms of Capital) Regulations, 2022, and the Companies 
Act, 2013.
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Description
1
Securities Description
Unsecured, Unrated, Unlisted, Subordinated Redeemable Bonds  in 
the nature of Non-Convertible Debentures ("NCDs") issued on private 
placement basis of ₹ 10,00,000/- each fully paid up
2
Date of Issuance
Tranche I : December 15, 2023 Tranche II : March 19, 2024
3
Quantity
Tranche I : 2,000 Tranche II : 1,500
4
Face Value(₹)
10,00,000
5
Paid up Value(₹)
10,00,000
6
Rate of Interest
9.75% p.a
7
Frequency of Payment of 
Interest
Quarterly
8
Date of Redemption
Tranche I : December 15, 2033 Tranche II : March 19, 2034
9
Date of Call option
Tranche I : December 15, 2028 Tranche II : March 19, 2029
	
	
Maturity Pattern
Maturity buckets
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
1 to 5 years
-   
-   
Above 5 years
35,000
35,000
Total
35,000
35,000
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
178
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
40	 Contribution To Environment Relief Fund
	
	
During the year, an amount of ₹ 5 Lakhs (Previous year ₹ 4 Lakhs) was collected towards Environment Relief 
Fund for public liability policies and an amount of ₹ 6 Lakhs (Previous year ₹ 4 Lakhs) has been transferred 
to “Central Pollution Board”, Environment Fund Account” as per Notification of Environment Relief Fund (ERF) 
scheme under the Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991 as amended. The balance amount of ₹ 0.5 Lakhs (Previous 
year ₹ 0.5 Lakhs) is included under statutory dues payable in Schedule 13.
	
41	 Disclosure on Expenses Of Management
	
	
In line with IRDAI (Expenses of Management of Insurers transacting General or Health Insurance business) 
Regulations, 2024, the Company’s expenses relating to the insurance business is in excess of regulatory limits 
for the year ended March 31, 2025, the company has applied for further forbearance, as available under the 
regulatory framework, which is currently under consideration with IRDAI.
	
	
Further In accordance with the IRDAI Regulations, operating expenses in excess of prescribed limits are 
required to be shown under ‘Other Income’ as ‘Contribution from Shareholders Funds towards Excess EOM’ and 
simultaneously to be charged to Profit & Loss account as ‘Contribution to Policyholders Funds towards Excess 
EOM’. Accordingly operating expenses in excess of overall limits of ₹ 32,401 Lakhs (Motor ₹ 29,577 Lakhs, 
Workmen compensation- ₹ 182 lakhs, Personal accident - ₹ 2,190 lakhs,Travel - ₹ 192, Miscellaneous - ₹ 260 
lakhs) ( previous year - operating expenses in excess of overall limits of ₹ 46,752 Lakhs (Motor ₹ 41,674 Lakhs, 
Workmen compensation- ₹ 299 lakhs, health & personal accident - ₹ 4,633 lakhs, Miscellaneous - ₹ 146 lakhs)) 
is reported as other income under Miscellaneous segment of the revenue account.
	
42	 Disclosure on Audit Trail
	
	
The Company has implemented a framework to identify relevant applications from the overall IT universe as 
“Books of account” as per the Companies Act 2013. The Company’s books of account maintained electronically 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2013, read with relevant rules and notifications, except: -
	
	
(a)	 The Company has enabled database level audit trail (edit logs) feature for its accounting on August 05, 
2024 and investment application on June 12, 2024. Access of personnel to database is severely restricted, 
provided only on exceptional basis and is well documented during financial year 2024-25 and 2023-24. 
The application-level audit trail (edit logs) feature was operating effectively during the whole financial year 
2024-25.
	
	
(b)	 Company has enabled audit trail (edit logs) feature for all identified financial accounting tables on 07 Jun 
2024 for policy and claims administration system.
	
43	 Disclosures pursuant to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014:-
	
	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources or other kind of funds) to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
The Company has not received any funds from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
179
14
123
01
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
	
44	 Details of Regrouping/Reclassification
Sr. 
No.
Particulars 
(schedule and head of account)
Regrouped/
Restated 
amount 
(₹ In lakh)
Amount as per 
financials of 
previous  year 
(₹ In Lakh)
Differences 
(₹ In Lakh)
Reason for 
regrouping/
restatement
Regrouped 
from
Regrouped to
1
Branding, 
advertisement 
and publicity
Business 
Development & 
Sales Promotion 
Expenses
 1,821 
 32,217 
 -30,396 To align with 
changed 
methodology 
of allocation 
of expenses to 
various business 
segments
Total
 1,821 
 32,217 
 -30,396 
	
45	 Expenses other than those related to Insurance Business (profit and loss account):
	
	
Expenses other than those related to insurance business includes, director sitting fees, shareholders charge 
for brand value creation expenses, managerial remuneration, audit fee payable for special purpose financial 
statements, provision for tax matters, investor engagement expenses, investment operations expenses related 
to shareholders funds, rent equalisation levy and ESOPs fair value charge.
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of  Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For PKF Sridhar and Santhanam LLP
For Kirtane and Pandit LLP
Kamesh Goyal
Jasleen Kohli
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and
Firm Registration Number
Firm Registration Number
DIN - 01816985 
Chief Executive Officer
003990S / S200018
105215W / W100057
Place: Bengaluru, India
DIN - 07634112
Place: Bengaluru, India
Seethalakshmi
Suhrud Lele
Mahender Kumar Garg
Tejas Saraf
Partner
Partner
Director
Company Secretary
Membership No. 208545
Membership No. 121162
DIN - 00081454
Membership No. ACS 26225
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Ravi Khetan
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Bengaluru, India
Place: Bengaluru, India
Date: April 28, 2025
Date: April 28, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
180
Annexure I - Remuneration and other payments made during the year to MD / CEO / WTD 
In accordance with IRDAI Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors of Insurers Guidelines, 2023 (Refer note 11)
As on & for the year ended March 31, 2025 	
(Rupees in Lakhs)
Sr.No.
Name of 
the MD 
/ CEO / 
WTD
Designation
Fixed Pay
Variable Pay
Total of 
Fixed 
and 
Variable 
Pay
c + f
Amount 
Debited 
to 
Revenue 
A/c
Amount 
Debited 
to Profit 
and 
Loss 
A/c
Value of 
Joining 
Bonus/
sign on 
bonus
Retirement 
benefits 
like 
gratuity, 
pension, 
etc. paid 
during the 
year
Amount of 
Deferred 
Remuneration 
of earliers 
years paid/
settled during 
the year
Pay and 
Allowances
Perquisites, 
etc.
Total
Cash Components
Non Cash 
Components*
Total
a
b
c = a + b
d
e
f = d + e 
Paid
Deferred
Settled
Deferred
Paid / 
Settled
Deferred
1
Jasleen 
Kohli
MD and CEO
 332 
 1 
 333 
 - 
 90 
 - 
 90 
 - 
 180 
 513 
 400 
 25 
 - 
 85 
Note:-
* In line with IRDAI circular dated 30 June 2023 on “Guidelines on Remuneration of Directors and Key Managerial Persons of Insurers”, for the purpose of calculation of benefit for non-cash 
component of variable pay, fair value of equity share as on date of grant is to be considered once ESOP scheme is ratified by shareholders. The amount debited to Revenue account will be 
accounted basis accounting policy adopted by the Company.
As on & for the year ended March 31, 2024 	
(Rupees in Lakhs)
Sr.No.
Name of 
the MD 
/ CEO / 
WTD
Designation
Fixed Pay
Variable Pay
Total of 
Fixed 
and 
Variable 
Pay
Amount 
Debited 
to 
Revenue 
A/c
Amount 
Debited 
to Profit 
and 
Loss 
A/c
Value of 
Joining 
Bonus/
sign on 
bonus
Retirement 
benefits 
like 
gratuity, 
pension, 
etc. paid 
during the 
year
Amount of 
Deferred 
Remuneration 
of earliers 
years paid/
settled during 
the year
Pay and 
Allowances
Perquisites, 
etc.
Total
Cash Components
Non Cash 
Components*
Total
c + f
b
c = a + b
d
e
f = d + e 
Paid
Deferred
Settled
Deferred
Paid / 
Settled
Deferred
1
Jasleen 
Kohli
MD and CEO
 308 
 1 
 309 
 - 
 86 
 - 
 86 
 - 
 172 
 481 
 395 
 - 
 - 
 44 
Notes:-
1	
Non-cash Component’ of the ‘Variable pay’ is determined at the perquisite value of the exercised ESOPs during the year as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and same 
is excluded from  ‘Amount debited to Revenue A/C” and ‘Amount Debited to Profit & Loss a/c
2	
As per Approval by IRDAI
(Currency – in lakhs of Indian Rupees unless otherwise stated)
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
181
14
123
01
Annexure II - Details of Outstanding Deferred Remuneration to MD / CEO / WTD
In accordance with IRDAI Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors of Insurers Guidelines, 2023 (Refer note 11)
As on & for the year ended March 31, 2025
Sr No
Name
Designation
Remuneration 
Petains to 
Financial year
Nature of 
Remuneration 
Outstanding
Amount of 
Outstanding*
1
Jasleen Kohli
MD and CEO
Nil
Nil
Nil
* Excludes year-end accruals towards performance pay which is subject to final determination and approval by nomination and 
remuneration committee of the Company.
As on & for the year ended March 31, 2024
Sr No
Name
Designation
Remuneration 
Petains to 
Financial year
Nature of 
Remuneration 
Outstanding
Amount of 
Outstanding*
1
Jasleen Kohli
MD and CEO
Nil
Nil
Nil
Qualitative Disclosures:
A.	 Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) was constituted by a resolution of our Board at their meeting 
held on December 14, 2017 and was last re-constituted by our Board at their meeting held on June 28, 2024.
	
The Members of NRC are:
Sr.  No.
Name of the Director
Designation of the Director in 
the Company
Designation of the Director in 
the NRC
1
Christof Mascher
Independent Director
Chairman
2
Vandana Gupta
Independent Director
Member
3
Mahender Kumar Garg
Independent Director
Member
4
Kamesh Goyal
Non-Executive Chairman
Member
	
Mandate of the NRC
	
The mandate of the NRC, among other things, include formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board a policy, relating to the remuneration 
of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees. To oversee and review the implementation of 
remuneration policy of the Company. Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors of the Company 
and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down, and recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal. For every appointment of an independent director, the NRC shall evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge, and experience on the Board and based on such evaluation, prepare a description of 
the role and capabilities required of an independent director. NRC is also responsible for administering the Go Digit 
Employee Stock Option Plan (“ESOP 2018”), any other such employee benefit schemes, as applicable, approved by 
the Board and Shareholders of the Company in accordance with the terms of such scheme/plan.
B.	 Information related to the design and structure of Remuneration processes and key features and 
objectives of remuneration policy
	
The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), vide circular bearing number IRDAI/F&A/
GDL/MISC/141/6/2023 dated June 30, 2023 has issued the “Guidelines on Remuneration of Directors and Key 
Managerial Persons of Insurers” (the “Guidelines”), governing the compensation and remuneration of Directors 
and Key Managerial Persons of the Insurers. Pursuant to the abovementioned Guidelines of IRDAI, the Company 
vide a resolution passed by the Board of Directors, based on the recommendations of NRC, has adopted Policy on 
Appointment and Remuneration of Directors and Policy on Remuneration of Employees. The policies are formulated 
under the requirements and the provisions of the Companies Act 2013 and the rules made thereunder, read with 
appropriate IRDAI prescriptions in this regard to govern remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, Managing 
Directors/Chief Executive Officer/Whole time Directors and key managerial persons of the Company and other 
applicable law.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
182
	
1	
Key features:
	
	
The policy on remuneration of employees shall establish an effective governance of compensation and sound 
Remuneration structure for the Officers of the Company, that -
	
	
a.	
disincentivizes excessive or inappropriate risk taking by such officers;
	
	
b.	
is harmonious to the long-term interests of the Company;
	
	
c.	
propagates an environment of healthy corporate culture, organizational objectives, contemporary 
strategies and identified risk appetite in the Company;
	
	
d.	
prevents situations of conflict of interest (that might compromise the integrity and objectivity of such 
Officers), while appointing any employee or designing the remuneration of the officers of the Company.
	
2	
Objectives:
	
	
The Policy, amongst other objectives, primarily intends to ensure:
	
	
a.	
effective governance of compensation;
	
	
b.	
alignment of compensation with prudent risk taking;
	
	
c.	
effective supervisory oversight and stakeholder engagement;
	
	
d.	
safety of interest of policyholders and other stakeholders
	
3	
Design and structure:
	
	
Fixed and Variable Pay:
	
	
a. 	
NRC ensures effective alignment of compensation with prudent risk taking.
	
	
b. 	
The Company will have a judicious and prudent approach to KMP Remuneration. KMP Remuneration will 
take into account a mix of external market pay and internal equity.
	
	
c. 	
The total compensation will be a prudent mix of fixed pay and variable pay. Fixed pay will include basic 
pay, allowances, perquisites, contribution towards superannuation/ retirals and any other form of benefits 
including reimbursable perquisites with monetary ceilings. The Company may also provide other benefits 
to the KMPs such as life insurance cover, medical insurance cover for employees and their dependents, car 
lease scheme etc.
	
	
d. 	
The Variable Pay to any KMP shall be ‘performance-based’ using measures of individual, unit or group 
performance that do not create incentives for inappropriate risk taking. ‘Performance based incentives’ 
shall be aligned with long term value creation and the time horizon of risks to which the Company may be 
exposed. Any variable pay or performance incentive shall be paid/ granted to any KMP only once during a 
financial year.
	
	
e. 	
The Variable Pay shall be in the form of Share Linked Instruments or Cash Benefit or a mix of Cash Benefit 
and Share Linked Instruments. The Share Linked Instruments shall include ESOPs / ESARs/ESPS as per the 
scheme of the Company from time to time.
	
	
f. 	
The structure of Variable Pay shall be as under:
	
	
	
i	
Variable Pay of any KMP shall be at least 50% of the Fixed Pay for the corresponding period and shall 
not exceed 300% of the Fixed Pay. Where variable pay is up to 200% of the Fixed Pay, a minimum 
of 50% of the variable pay shall be through grant of Share Linked Instruments under the Company’s 
ESOP scheme or other Share Linked Instrument scheme in force from time to time. The same limit 
would be 70% in case the variable pay is above 200% of the fixed pay.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
183
14
123
01
	
	
	
ii	
 A minimum of 50% of the total Variable Pay must invariably be under deferral arrangements and the 
deferral period shall be a minimum of three years. The first such vesting shall, at minimum, accrue 
after one year from the commencement of the deferral period. Vesting shall be no faster than on 
a pro-rata basis and shall not take place more frequently than once in a year to ensure a proper 
assessment of risks before the application of ex-post adjustments. No deferment of variable pay shall 
be required in case the total Variable Pay with respect to any KMP is equal to or less than Rupees 
Twenty-Five lakhs for any given particular year. However, the Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer and Head - HR shall have the flexibility to apply deferment of variable pay in such case.
	
	
	
iii	
Grant of ESOPs under the ESOP scheme of the Company as a component of Variable Pay shall be 
reckoned at the fair value as provided in this policy which shall be in accordance with the ESOP/Share 
Linked Instruments plan of the Company.
	
	
	
iv	
So far as the Company is unlisted, the total number of ESOPs granted in a year shall not exceed 
1% of the paid-up capital of the Company. The total number of ESOPs issued, granted, vested or 
outstanding under the ESOP scheme of the Company at any point of time shall not exceed 5% of the 
paid- up capital of the Company or at such lower limit as prescribed under the ESOP/Share Linked 
Instruments plan of the Company.
	
	
g	
Joining/ sign on bonus shall only occur in the context of hiring new personnel and be limited to the first year 
of employment. Such a bonus will neither be considered as a part of fixed pay nor as a part of variable pay.
	
	
h	
In case of retirement / resignation / death of any KMP prior to the deferral period, the deferred pay may 
be paid as per the employment contract of the KMP. In case of reappointment on retirement, the deferred 
pay due at the time of retirement (i.e., prior to reappointment) shall be paid only for the respective years to 
which it was originally deferred.
	
	
i	
In case of termination of any KMP from the services consequent to a directive or order of any Judicial 
Authority or any other competent Authorities, or termination by the insurer in case of fraud/criminal offences 
etc., the deferred pay shall be forfeited in accordance with the provisions of Malus elsewhere delineated in 
this Policy.
C.	 Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration 
processes, including the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks
	
The Company considers diverse types of risks in its remuneration processes. The Company follows a comprehensive 
framework that includes within its ambit the key dimensions of remuneration such as fixed pay and variable pay.
	
Fixed pay: The Company conducts a comprehensive market benchmarking study to ensure that employees are 
competitively positioned in terms of fixed pay. The Company follows a robust salary review process wherein 
revisions in fixed compensation are based on performance. The Company also makes salary adjustments taking into 
consideration pay positioning of employees vis-à-vis market reference points. Through this approach the Company 
endeavours to ensure that the talent risk due to attrition is mitigated. Fixed pay could be revised downwards as well, 
in the event of certain proven cases of misconduct by an employee.
	
Variable pay: The framework developed by the Company to arrive at the quantum of variable pay of KMP is based 
on the performance parameters developed by the Company. The quantitative parameters include overall financial 
soundness, Compliance with prevailing Expense of Management regulations and others (combined ratio, market 
share improvement). Apart from above, qualitative risk factors such as claims efficiency in terms of settlement and 
outstanding, improvement in grievance redressal status, reduction in unclaimed amounts of policyholders, renewal 
rate, overall compliance status with respect to all applicable laws will also be considered in the evaluation. The 
Company has devised appropriate malus and claw back clauses as a risk mitigant for KMP variable pay. In the event 
of a reasonable evidence of deterioration in financial performance of the Company as given in the remuneration 
policy, the NRC may evaluate the conditions leading to the deterioration, including changes in regulations, force 
majeure, market conditions, industry performance, economic social or other conditions whether under or beyond the 
control of the Company or any person and other relevant factors. In deciding whether to apply Malus/Clawback on 
part or all or none of the variable compensation, due regard to the principles of proportionality and of reasonable 
nexus between matters of ability, capability and expertise of the individual(s) versus matters or events outside the 
control or even nexus of the individual(s) to the events or situations shall be taken into evaluation.
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
184
D.	 Description of the ways in which the Company seeks to link performance during a performance 
measurement period, with levels of remuneration
	
a. 	
Overall financial soundness such as Net-Worth position, solvency, growth in AUM, Net Profit, etc.;
	
b. 	
Compliance with Expenses of Management Regulations;
	
c. 	
Claim efficiency in terms of settlement and outstanding;
	
d. 	
Improvement in grievance redressal status;
	
e.	
Reduction in Unclaimed Amounts of policyholders;
	
f.	
Renewal Rate;
	
g.	
Overall Compliance status with respect to all applicable laws.
	
h.	
Additional criteria - combined ratio, market share improvement
	
While considering the Variable Pay of KMPs for any given period, it shall be ensured that such Variable Pay to 
such employees is commensurate with the overall performance of the Company during the period. Besides, the 
same evaluation shall be used to form the basis for revision of Fixed Pay of the KMPs. The minimum parameters 
of performance, which may be taken into account for determination of Variable Pay of other employees for any 
period or for revision of Fixed Pay shall be as determined by the Head of Human Resources in consultation with 
concerned Head of the Department or as per the extant process followed by the Company. However, flexibility may 
be maintained while determination of Variable Pay and revision of Fixed Pay of employees for other than senior 
levels. The deterioration in the performance of the Company may lead to a contraction in the total amount of Variable 
Pay which may even be reduced to zero.
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
185
14
123
01
Annexure III – Segment reporting (Refer note 16)
The Company’s primary reportable segments are business segments, which have been identified in accordance with 
IRDAI Financial Statements Regulations and AS 17 – Segment Reporting. Operating expenses and investment income 
are allocated to business segments as per para 2.S of Schedule 16.
Segment revenue and segment results are shown in Financial Statements. Segmental assets and liabilities are disclosed 
to the extent identifiable.
As on & for the year ended March 31, 2025
Line of business
Segment Revenue
Segment Expense
Operating 
Profit
Segment Liability
Gross 
Direct 
Premium
Net 
Earned 
Premium
Investment 
& Other 
Income
Net 
Incurred 
Claims
Net 
Commission
Operating 
Expense
Advance 
premium
Claims 
outstanding, 
net
Unexpired 
risk reserve, 
net
Fire
48,396
11,926
2,231
8,198
(1,617)
1,341
6,235
61
14,515
11,555
Marine Cargo
5,142
975
55
585
(607)
227
825
16
660
370
Marine Hull
-
3
2
(36)
-
-
41
-
-
-
Miscellaneous
-
-
-
-
Motor
5,86,433
5,42,405
1,25,461
3,63,609
2,06,033
58,424
39,800
6,236
8,18,323
2,91,279
Workmen’s 
Compensation
7,432
6,687
623
4,886
1,939
799
(314)
87
3,804
2,955
Public / Product 
Liability
18
2
-
-
-
-
2
-
2
1
Engineering
12,593
1,556
270
1,604
(74)
237
59
8
2,378
1,680
Aviation
2,341
378
60
371
(6)
136
(63)
-
371
1,167
Personal Accident
41,679
17,839
4,740
7,400
(5,065)
7,238
13,006
6
8,377
15,314
Health Insurance
1,17,760
1,44,635
6,666
1,30,257
17,081
7,313
(3,350)
82
41,996
53,629
Travel
3,154
2,924
234
915
1,174
347
722
137
299
140
Crop
-
65,222
1,546
58,932
3,998
196
3,642
-
24,576
-
Others
22,268
10,044
1,468
9,175
(19)
1,504
852
109
10,949
9,127
Total
8,47,216
8,04,596
1,43,356
5,85,896
2,22,837
77,762
61,457
6,742
9,26,251
3,87,217
Particulars
Total Amount
Operating Profit
 61,457 
Add:  Income in Profit & Loss 
 21,603 
Less: Expenses in Profit & Loss
 40,566 
Profit / Loss before Tax
 42,494 
Secondary reportable segments as per AS 17
Particulars
Total Amount
Gross Direct Premium
 - In India
 8,47,216 
 - Outside India
 - 
Total 
 8,47,216 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
186
As on & for the year ended March 31, 2024
Line of business
Segment Revenue
Segment Expense
Operating 
Profit
Segment Liability
Gross 
Direct 
Premium
Net 
Earned 
Premium
Investment 
& Other 
Income
Net 
Incurred 
Claims
Net 
Commission
Operating 
Expense
Advance 
premium
Claims 
outstanding, 
net
Unexpired 
risk reserve, 
net
Fire
 48,695 
 8,784 
 1,641 
 7,528 
 (4,340)
 1,763 
 5,474 
 41 
 11,361 
 10,607 
Marine Cargo
 3,523 
 428 
 23 
 341 
 (740)
 174 
 676 
 6 
 224 
 133 
Marine Hull
 205 
 44 
 1 
 36 
 (1)
 5 
 5 
 - 
 36 
 3 
Miscellaneous
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Motor
 5,47,127  4,97,072 
 1,19,162  3,09,732 
 1,74,911 
 76,627 
 54,964 
 4,091 
 6,63,630 
 2,71,292 
Workmen’s 
Compensation
 6,071 
 5,011 
 572 
 2,588 
 1,509 
 943 
 543 
 84 
 1,845 
 2,507 
Public / Product 
Liability
 17 
 2 
 - 
 - 
 (1)
 - 
 3 
 - 
 2 
 1 
Engineering
 8,500 
 846 
 140 
 1,101 
 (433)
 217 
 101 
 15 
 1,258 
 1,085 
Aviation
 - 
 56 
 3 
 (19)
 (5)
 - 
 83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Personal Accident
 31,768 
 13,981 
 6,513 
 7,841 
 5,434 
 13,642 
 (6,423)
 13 
 5,749 
 28,575 
Health Insurance
 1,26,462  1,14,440 
 4,206  1,14,452 
 11,089 
 12,949 
 (19,844)
 236 
 20,798 
 51,513 
Travel
 2,331 
 2,232 
 213 
 353 
 664 
 408 
 1,020 
 104 
 268 
 67 
Crop
 - 
 54,091 
 737 
 50,322 
 1,684 
 162 
 2,660 
 - 
 15,046 
-
Others
 19,411 
 12,653 
 1,424 
 4,745 
 (925)
 1,098 
 9,159 
 112 
 7,304 
 2,950 
Total
 7,94,110  7,09,640 
 1,34,634  4,99,020 
 1,88,846 
 1,07,988 
 48,420 
 4,702 
 7,27,523 
 3,68,732 
Particulars
Total Amount
Operating Profit
 48,420 
Add:  Income in Profit & Loss 
 17,264 
Less: Expenses in Profit & Loss
 47,516 
Profit / Loss before Tax
 18,168 
Secondary reportable segments as per AS 17
Particulars
Total Amount
Gross Direct Premium
 - In India
 7,94,110 
 - Outside India
 - 
Total 
 7,94,110 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
187
14
123
01
Annexure IV – Accounting Ratios (Refer note 17)
Line of business
Gross 
Direct 
Premium 
Growth 
Rate
Net 
Retention 
Ratio
Net 
Commission 
Ratio
Expenses of 
Management 
to Gross Direct 
Premium Ratio
Expenses of 
Management 
to Net Written 
Premium 
Ratio
Net Incurred 
Claims to 
Net Earned 
Premium
Claims paid 
to claims 
provisions**
Combined 
Ratio
Technical 
Reserves 
to Net 
Premium 
Ratio
Fire
Current Year
-0.61%
15.64%
-12.56%
18.71%
-2.14%
68.74%
25.87%
66.60%
 2.02 
Previous Year
16.67%
13.84%
-38.90%
16.40%
-23.10%
85.70%
18.59%
62.60%
 1.97 
Marine Cargo
Current Year
45.96%
16.23%
-50.04%
16.39%
-31.33%
60.00%
7.40%
28.67%
 0.85 
Previous Year
1.65%
8.10%
-170.90%
15.13%
-130.72%
79.67%
86.90%
-51.05%
 0.83 
Marine Others
Current Year
-100.00%
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
0.04%
NA
0.00
Previous Year
NA
23.04%
-2.13%
4.39%
8.51%
81.82%
0.00%
90.33%
 0.82 
Marine Total
Current Year
37.93%
16.23%
-50.04%
16.39%
-31.33%
56.13%
6.39%
24.80%
 0.85 
Previous Year
7.57%
8.65%
-154.38%
14.54%
-117.08%
79.87%
87.13%
-37.21%
 0.83 
Motor OD
Current Year
14.07%
95.86%
39.62%
53.70%
55.26%
67.83%
67.66%
123.09%
 0.58 
Previous Year
46.12%
95.90%
33.80%
56.44%
57.63%
66.14%
74.06%
123.77%
 0.60 
Motor TP
Current Year
3.35%
95.92%
34.80%
40.47%
41.96%
66.56%
8.96%
108.52%
 2.83 
Previous Year
32.07%
95.91%
33.08%
41.84%
42.55%
60.45%
10.42%
103.00%
 2.44 
Motor Total
Current Year
7.18%
95.90%
36.64%
45.51%
47.02%
67.04%
10.20%
114.06%
 1.97 
Previous Year
36.77%
95.91%
33.34%
47.06%
47.94%
62.31%
11.69%
110.25%
 1.78 
Workmen 
Compensation
Current Year
22.42%
96.00%
27.18%
37.51%
38.37%
73.07%
60.83%
111.44%
 0.95 
Previous Year
39.18%
96.00%
25.89%
41.00%
42.07%
51.65%
57.06%
93.72%
 0.75 
Public Liability
Current Year
5.88%
11.11%
0.00%
16.67%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
 1.57 
Previous Year
-3.52%
11.76%
-50.00%
11.76%
-50.00%
0.00%
0.00%
-50.00%
 1.46 
Product Liability
Current Year
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
0.00%
NA
 NA 
Previous Year
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
0.00%
NA
 NA 
Engineering
Current Year
48.15%
14.42%
-3.44%
19.28%
7.58%
103.08%
26.84%
110.66%
 1.89 
Previous Year
33.78%
11.73%
-33.26%
21.61%
-16.59%
130.14%
23.89%
113.55%
 1.80 
Aviation
Current Year
NA
66.00%
-0.39%
7.82%
8.41%
98.15%
0.00%
106.56%
 1.00 
Previous Year
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
-33.93%
0.00%
NA
 NA 
Personal Accident
Current Year
31.20%
10.97%
-110.64%
46.19%
47.47%
41.48%
31.03%
88.95%
 5.17 
Previous Year
82.62%
92.44%
18.43%
61.48%
64.70%
56.08%
75.76%
120.78%
 1.16 
Health
Current Year
-6.88%
80.33%
11.64%
18.58%
16.62%
90.06%
67.91%
106.68%
 0.65 
Previous Year
75.69%
96.42%
8.13%
18.96%
17.63%
100.01%
88.53%
117.64%
 0.53 
Travel
Current Year
35.31%
95.02%
39.17%
48.76%
50.75%
31.29%
24.22%
82.04%
 0.15 
Previous Year
-41.12%
96.02%
29.56%
47.19%
47.73%
15.82%
13.86%
63.55%
 0.15 
Crop
Current Year
NA
100.04%
6.13%
NA
6.43%
90.36%
7.59%
96.79%
 0.38 
Previous Year
NA
99.94%
3.11%
NA
3.41%
93.03%
15.83%
96.44%
 0.28 
Others
Current Year
14.72%
47.00%
-0.12%
25.32%
9.15%
91.35%
34.80%
100.50%
 1.24 
Previous Year
-70.90%
34.85%
-12.43%
25.34%
2.32%
37.50%
41.98%
39.82%
 1.38 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
188
Line of business
Gross 
Direct 
Premium 
Growth 
Rate
Net 
Retention 
Ratio
Net 
Commission 
Ratio
Expenses of 
Management 
to Gross Direct 
Premium Ratio
Expenses of 
Management 
to Net Written 
Premium 
Ratio
Net Incurred 
Claims to 
Net Earned 
Premium
Claims paid 
to claims 
provisions**
Combined 
Ratio
Technical 
Reserves 
to Net 
Premium 
Ratio
Miscellaneous Total
Current Year
7.01%
86.21%
27.82%
40.42%
37.24%
72.90%
12.38%
110.14%
 1.59 
Previous Year
29.94%
93.38%
25.47%
42.00%
39.39%
70.12%
14.21%
109.51%
 1.41 
Grand Total
Current Year
6.69%
80.05%
27.07%
39.03%
36.52%
72.82%
12.59%
109.34%
 1.60 
Previous Year
28.91%
85.75%
24.43%
40.30%
38.40%
70.32%
14.27%
108.72%
 1.42 
Ratios for Non-Life Companies
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
1
Gross direct premium to net-worth ratio #
 2.10 
 3.16 
2
Growth rate of net-worth #
60.34%
8.16%
3
Investment Income ratio
7.19%
7.34%
4
Underwriting Balance Ratio
 -0.10 
 -0.12 
Fire
 0.34 
 0.44 
Marine
 0.83 
 1.39 
Miscellaneous
 -0.11 
 -0.13 
5
Operating Profit Ratio
7.64%
6.82%
6
Liquid Assets to liabilities ratio
 0.06 
 0.07 
7
Net Earning Ratio
5.16%
2.35%
8
Return on Net worth ratio#
10.54%
7.22%
9
Available Solvency Margin (ASM) to Required Solvency Margin 
(RSM) Ratio*
 2.24 
 1.61 
10
NPA Ratio
NA
NA
Policyholder’s Fund
 NA 
 NA 
Gross NPA Ratio
 NA 
 NA 
Net NPA Ratio
 NA 
 NA 
Shareholder’s Fund
 NA 
 NA 
Gross NPA Ratio
 NA 
 NA 
Net NPA Ratio
 NA 
 NA 
NPA Ratio
NA
NA
11
Debt Equity Ratio
 0.09 
 0.14 
12
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
 13.44 
 30.64 
13
Interest Service Coverage Ratio
 13.44 
 30.64 
14
Equity Holding Pattern for other than life insurers and information 
on earnings:
No. of shares
 92,30,25,934 
 87,51,64,404 
Indian
90.81%
96.17%
Foreign
9.19%
3.83%
15
Basic EPS before extraordinary items (net of tax expense) for the 
period (not to be annualized)
 4.65 
 2.08 
16
Diluted EPS before extraordinary items (net of tax   expense)   for   
the   period   (not   to   be annualized)
 4.62 
 2.05 
Basic EPS after extraordinary items (net of tax expense) for the 
period (not to be annualized)
 4.65 
 2.08 
Diluted EPS after extraordinary items (net of tax expense) for the 
period (not to be annualized
 4.62 
 2.05 
17
Book value per share
 43.69 
 28.74 
# Networth excludes ESOP outstanding reserve
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
189
14
123
01
Annexure V 
–  Employee Stock Option Plan (Refer note 18)
The Company has granted stock options under Employees Stock Option Plan 2018 (“ESOP 2018”) to its employees and 
employees of its holding company.
Date on 
which ESOP 
Granted
Tranche 
I
Tranche
II
Tranche 
III
Tranche 
IV
Tranche 
V
Tranche 
VI
Tranche 
VII
Tranche 
VIII
Tranche 
IX
01 Apr 2022
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
1,592
01 Mar 2022
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
85,331
Nil
01 Apr 2021
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
1,18,302
Nil
Nil
23 Nov 2021
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4,67,731
Nil
Nil
Nil
01 Jan 2021
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
8,05,652 at 
₹172
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
23 Jul 2020
Nil
Nil
Nil
18,30,758
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
12 May 2020
Nil
Nil
1,33,333
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
20 Jan 2020
Nil
12,23,557
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
16 Dec 2019
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
1,37,917 at 
₹75
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
18 Jan 2019
91,50,000 
at ₹10 & 
47,57,081 
at  ₹27
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Grant Price (₹)
₹10 & 
₹27
₹ 75
₹ 75
₹ 75
₹75 & ₹172
₹ 314
₹ 172
₹ 314
₹ 314
Vesting Period
after 1 but less than 6 years from the date of joining of employee or grant date
Exercise 
Period
4 years from the date of vesting
Date on 
which ESOP 
Granted
Tranche X
Tranche 
XI
Tranche 
XII
Tranche 
XIII
Tranche 
XIV
Tranche 
XV
Tranche 
XVI
Tranche 
XVII
Tranche 
XVIII
01 Aug 2023
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
22,663
01 Jan 2023
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5,59,095
Nil
18 Nov 2022
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
6,000
Nil
Nil
11 Oct 2022
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
12,987
Nil
Nil
Nil
29 Aug 2022
Nil
Nil
Nil
22,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
22 Aug 2022
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
63,695
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
18 Aug 2022
Nil
Nil
5,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
01 Jul 2022
Nil
10,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
01 May 2022
45,488
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Grant Price (₹)
₹ 328
₹ 328
₹ 328
₹ 328
₹ 314
₹ 385
₹ 385
₹ 385
₹ 385
Vesting Period
after 1 but less than 6 years from the date of joining of employee or grant date
Exercise 
Period
4 years from the date of vesting
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
190
Date on 
which ESOP 
Granted
Tranche 
XIX
Tranche 
XX
Tranche 
XXI
Tranche 
XXII
Tranche 
XXIII
Tranche 
XXIV
Tranche 
XXV
Tranche 
XXVI
Tranche 
XXVII
24 Oct 2024
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
37,070
08 Apr 2024
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
1,85,879
Nil
05 Feb 2024
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
7,752
Nil
Nil
09 Nov 2023
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
26 Oct 2023
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
10,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
01 Oct 2023
Nil
Nil
Nil
12,69,987
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
30 Sep 2023
Nil
Nil
6,410
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
11 Sep 2023
Nil
4,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
07 Aug 2023
2,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Grant Price (₹)
₹ 385
₹ 385
₹ 385
₹ 387
₹ 387
₹ 387
₹ 387
₹ 386
₹ 348
Vesting Period
after 1 but less than 6 years from the date of joining of employee or grant date
Exercise 
Period
4 years from the date of vesting
Date on which ESOP 
Granted
Tranche XXVIII
Tranche XXIX
Tranche XXX
Tranche XXXI
12 Feb 2025
Nil
Nil
Nil
17,500
24 Oct 2024
Nil
Nil
21,852
Nil
31 Dec 2024
Nil
32,69,835
Nil
Nil
24 Oct 2024
15,924
Nil
Nil
Nil
Grant Price (₹)
₹ 314
₹ 283
₹ 387
₹ 296
Vesting Period
after 1 but less than 6 years from the date of joining of employee or grant date
Exercise Period
4 years from the date of vesting
Method used for accounting-
The Company has adopted fair value method for computing the employee compensation expenses. The estimated fair 
value is computed on the basis of Black – Scholes model of option pricing for each stock option.
7,66,289 options are vested during the year. (For the year ended 31 Mar 2024  – 24,00,365).
Key assumptions used in Black-Scholes method for calculating fair value under ESOP 2018 are as follows-
Particulars
Risk Free Interest 
rate
Expected Life
Expected Volatility
Expected dividend 
yield
Tranche I
7.37%
5 years
13.49%
Nil
Tranche II
6.64%
4 Years
13.39%
Nil
Tranche III
6.16%
5 years
17.81%
Nil
Tranche IV
5.81%
4 years
18.11%
Nil
Tranche V
5.81%
5 years
18.04%
Nil
Tranche VI
6.24%
4 years
17.46%
Nil
Tranche VII
6.18%
5 years
16.52%
Nil
Tranche VIII
6.77%
5 years
18.49%
Nil
Tranche IX
6.84%
4 years
18.63%
Nil
Tranche X
7.11%
6 years
18.73%
Nil
Tranche XI
7.44%
6 years
19.04%
Nil
Tranche XII
7.24%
3 years
19.08%
Nil
Tranche XIII
7.25%
6 years
19.09%
Nil
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
191
14
123
01
Particulars
Risk Free Interest 
rate
Expected Life
Expected Volatility
Expected dividend 
yield
Tranche XIV
7.28%
5 years
19.04%
Nil
Tranche XV
7.45%
6 years
19.22%
Nil
Tranche XVI
7.29%
6 years
19.21%
Nil
Tranche XVII
7.33%
4 years
19.26%
Nil
Tranche XVIII
7.16%
4 years
19.18%
Nil
Tranche XIX
7.16%
6 years
19.18%
Nil
Tranche XX
7.21%
6 years
19.16%
Nil
Tranche XXI
7.21%
3 years
19.16%
Nil
Tranche XXII
7.21%
4 years
19.16%
Nil
Tranche XXIII
7.21%
5 years
19.16%
Nil
Tranche XXIV
7.27%
6 years
18.96%
Nil
Tranche XXV
7.05%
5 years
18.95%
Nil
Tranche XXVI
7.15%
5 years
18.94%
Nil
Tranche XXVII
6.94%
5 years
18.85%
Nil
Tranche XXVIII
6.94%
5 years
18.85%
Nil
Tranche XXIX
6.87%
3 years
18.92%
Nil
Tranche XXX
6.94%
4 years
18.82%
Nil
Tranche XXXI
6.81%
3 years
18.93%
Nil
Movement in the rights under ESOP 2018 as on March 31, 2025
Particulars
No. of rights
Range of exercise 
prices (₹)
Weighted average 
exercise price (₹)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Months)
Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
 1,47,74,369 
₹ 10 - ₹ 387
 84.43 
40 months
Granted during the year
 35,48,060 
 289.91 
Forfeited/Lapsed during 
the year
 2,54,885 
Exercised during the year
 65,01,236 
 32.65 
Outstanding at the end of 
the year
 1,15,66,308 
 171.71 
Exercisable at the end of 
the year
 62,38,465 
Movement in the rights under ESOP 2018 as on March 31, 2024
Total for all grants
No. of rights
Range of 
exercise prices
Weighted average 
exercise price
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Months)
Outstanding at the beginning 
of the year
 1,49,14,490 
₹ 10 - ₹ 387
60.42
34 months
Granted during the year
 13,24,812 
386.95
Forfeited/Lapsed during the 
year
 3,18,422 
Exercised during the year
 11,46,511 
55.95
Outstanding at the end of the 
year
 1,47,74,369 
84.43
Exercisable at the end of the 
year
 1,19,93,172 
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
192
Sno.
Particulars
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
 March 31,
 2023
 March 31, 
2022
 March 31, 
2021
Operating Results
1
Gross direct premium
 8,47,216 
 7,94,110 
 6,16,008 
 4,67,394 
 2,41,762 
2
Gross written premium
 10,28,214 
 9,01,559 
 7,24,299 
 5,26,763 
 3,24,339 
3
Net written premium @
 8,23,081 
 7,73,092 
 5,90,934 
 4,18,010 
 2,63,230 
4
Income from investments (net)
 1,10,910 
 87,879 
 61,656 
 35,523 
 24,136 
5
Other income
 22 
 3 
-
-
 - 
6
Contribution from the Shareholders a/c
Towards excess EOM
 32,401 
 46,752 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Towards remuneration of MD/CEO/WTD/
Other KMPs
 23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total income
 9,66,437 
 9,07,726 
 6,52,590 
 4,53,533 
 2,87,366 
7
Net incurred claims & other outgoes
 5,85,896 
 4,99,020 
 3,47,139 
 2,51,968 
 1,43,896 
8
Commission paid (net) (Including 
Brokerage)
 2,22,837 
 1,88,846 
 14,373 
 15,942 
 6,777 
9
Operating expenses
 77,762 
 1,07,988 
 2,23,139 
 1,45,556 
 86,375 
10
Change in unexpired risk reserve#
 18,485 
 63,452 
 74,566 
 77,582 
 68,867 
11
Premium Deficiency 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
12
Operating profit / (loss)
 61,457 
 48,420 
 (6,628)
 (37,515)
 (18,549)
Non-operating results
13
Total income under shareholders' account
 (18,963)
 (30,252)
 10,182 
 7,929 
 6,273 
14
Profit / (loss) before tax
 42,494 
 18,168 
 3,555 
 (29,586)
 (12,276)
15
Provision for tax
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
16
Profit / (loss) after tax
 42,494 
 18,168 
 3,555 
 (29,586)
 (12,276)
Miscellaneous
17
Policyholders' account
Total funds
NA
Total investments
 15,52,774 
 13,36,936 
 10,21,753 
 7,64,593 
 4,05,143 
Yield on investments
NA
18
Shareholders' account
Total funds
NA
Total investments
 3,93,628 
 2,03,828 
 2,17,152 
 1,60,143 
 1,37,879 
Yield on investments
NA
19
Paid up equity capital
 92,303 
 87,516 
 87,402 
 85,901 
 82,469 
20
**Net worth 
 4,03,292 
 2,51,521 
 2,32,547 
 1,86,687 
 1,13,458 
21
Total assets
 21,46,094 
 16,95,845 
 13,48,956  10,04,773 
 6,00,412 
22
Yield on total investments
7.19%
7.34%
6.29%
6.22%
6.85%
23
Earnings per share (in ₹)
 4.65 
 2.08 
 0.41 
 (3.55)
 (1.50)
24
Diluted Earnings per share (in ₹)
 4.62 
 2.05 
 0.40 
 (3.55)
 (1.50)
25
Book value per share (in ₹)
 44 
 29 
 27 
 22 
 14 
26
Total dividend
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
27
Dividend per share (in ₹)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
28
Solvency Ratio
 2.24 
 1.61 
 1.78 
 2.01 
 2.01 
** Networth excludes ESOP outstanding reserve
# including premium deficiency reserve
@ Net of reinsurance
Annexure VI 
– Summary of Financial Statements (Ref Note 22)	
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
193
14
123
01
Annexure VII 
– Statement showing the Age-wise Analysis of the Unclaimed Amount of the Policyholders (including income from 
Investment) (Refer note 28) 
Pursuant to IRDAI Master Circular No IRDA/F&A/CIR/Misc/173/07/2017 dated July 25th, 2017 regarding unclaimed 
amounts of policyholders, the Policyholders Protection Committee of the Board shall oversee timely pay-outs of the dues 
to the policyholders.
Statement showing the Age‐wise Analysis of the Unclaimed Amount of the Policyholders
As on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Total 
Amount
AGE-WISE ANALYSIS
0-6
 7-12
13-18
19-24
25-30
31-36
37-120
months
months
months
months
months
months
Months
Claims settled but not paid to the 
policy holders/ beneficiaries due to 
any reasons except under litigation 
from the policyholders/Beneficiaries*
 34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 34 
Sum due to the policyholders 
/ beneficiaries on maturity or 
otherwise
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Any excess collection of the 
premium/tax or any other charges 
which is refundable  to the 
policyholders/ beneficiaries either as 
terms of conditions of the policy or 
as per law or as may be directed by 
the Authority but not refunded so far
 2,063 
 252 
 703 
 517 
 274 
 251 
 53 
 13 
Cheques issued but not encashed by 
the policyholder/ beneficiaries
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 2,097 
 252 
 703 
 517 
 274 
 251 
 53 
 47 
*Excludes amount under “Litigation and Others” of ₹ 27 lakhs
Annual Report 2024-25
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
194
As on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Total 
Amount
AGE-WISE ANALYSIS
0-6
 7-12
13-18
19-24
25-30
31-36
36-120
months
months
months
months
months
months
Months
Claims settled but not paid to the 
policy holders / beneficiaries due to 
any reasons except under litigation 
from the policyholders/Beneficiaries
 34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 34 
 - 
Sum due to the policyholders 
/ beneficiaries on maturity or 
otherwise
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Any excess collection of the 
premium/tax or any other charges 
which is refundable  to the 
policyholders/ beneficiaries either as 
terms of conditions of the policy or 
as per law or as may be directed by 
the Authority but not refunded so far
 1,197 
 - 
 601 
 287 
 242 
 54 
 3 
 10 
Cheques issued but not encashed by 
the policyholder/ beneficiaries
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,231 
 - 
 601 
 287 
 242 
 54 
 37 
 10 
*Excludes amount under “Litigation and Others” of ₹ 7 lakhs
Details of Unclaimed Amount and Investment Income	
Maturity buckets
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
Opening Balance
 1,427 
 1,010 
Add: Amount transferred to Unclaimed Fund 
 1,100 
 300 
Add: Cheques issued out of the unclaimed       amount but not encashed by 
the policyholders (To be included only when the cheques are stale)
 - 
 - 
Add: Investment Income on Unclaimed Fund*
 174 
 117 
Less: Amount of claims paid during the year
 - 
Less: Amount transferred to SCWF (net of claims paid in respect of amounts 
transferred earlier)
 - 
Closing Balance of Unclaimed Amount Fund
 2,701 
 1,427 
* Including mark to market gain on mutual fund of ₹ 201 lakhs (For the year ended March 31, 2024 ₹ 77 lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Go Digit General Insurance Limited
195
14
123
01
