                                                                                                                                                                                               
 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
Registered Office: Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33 MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705, India  
T: +91 22 2087 7610 |  E: contact@heubach.com  |  www.heubach.com  |  CIN: L24110MH1956PLC010806 
 
 
 
September 05, 2025 
 
 
BSE Limited 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001  
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Scrip Code - 506390 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051 
 
Scrip Symbol - HEUBACHIND 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Notice convening 68th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report for FY 2024-25 
 
Please 
be 
informed 
that 
the 
68th 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
(“AGM”) 
of  
HEUBACH COLORANTS INDIA LIMITED (“the Company”) is scheduled to be held on 
Monday, September 29, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) /  
Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”), inter alia, to transact the business stated in the  
Notice convening 68th AGM.  
 
Pursuant to Regulations 30(2) and 34(1) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015”), we hereby submit  
a copy of the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25, along with Notice convening  
68th AGM scheduled as aforesaid, as circulated to the Shareholders through electronic mode 
today i.e. on Friday, September 05, 2025, whose email addresses were registered with the 
Company/Registrar and Transfer Agent/Depository Participant(s), in accordance with the 
applicable Circulars issued by The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”).  
 
Further, in accordance with the Regulation 36(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, a letter 
communicating the web-link, including the exact path, where complete details of the  
Annual Report for FY 2024-25 are available, is being dispatched to the Members who have not 
registered their email addresses with the Company. 
 
Further, as required under Regulation 34 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has 
also published Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) for the Financial 
Year 2024-25, which forms part of the said Annual Report. 
 
Notice of the 68th AGM and Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 is also available on 
the website of the Company at https://heubach.com/heubach-india/investor-relations-india-
overview/annual-reports/.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
Registered Office: Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33 MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705, India  
T: +91 22 2087 7610 |  E: contact@heubach.com  |  www.heubach.com  |  CIN: L24110MH1956PLC010806 
Brief details of the 68th AGM are as below: 
 
Date and Time of 68th AGM 
Monday, September 29, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. (IST) 
Web link for participating 
through VC/OAVM 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/  
Cut-off date for e-voting 
Monday, September 22, 2025 
Remote e-voting start date and 
time 
Wednesday, September 24, 2025 at 9:00 a.m. (IST) 
Remote e-voting end date and 
time 
Sunday, September 28, 2025 at 5:00 p.m. (IST) 
Access to remote e-voting 
website  
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL: https://evoting.nsdl.com/ 
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL: 
https://evoting.cdslindia.com/Evoting/EvotingLogin 
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in physical 
form/ Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/   
  
 
Kindly take the same on record. 
 
Thanking You, 
Yours Faithfully,  
 
For HEUBACH COLORANTS INDIA LIMITED 
 
 
 
ADWAIT JOSHI 
COMPANY SECRETARY 
 
Encl.: As above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adwait 
Shrikant Joshi
Digitally signed by 
Adwait Shrikant Joshi 
Date: 2025.09.05 
20:02:13 +05'30'
Coloring the Future. 
Brighter. Bolder. Together. 
Contents
At Heubach India, stepping into the 
future begins with a shift; from 
uncertainty to possibility, guiding us 
towards a world that is brighter, more 
vibrant, and full of promise. Coloring 
the future is about illuminating paths, 
delivering sustainable solutions, and 
inspiring confidence through color.
Brighter reflects our 
commitment to innovation, 
possibilities, driving clarity, and 
creating vibrant outcomes that 
leave a lasting impact across 
industries and communities. 
Integration Story...................................................02
ONE Sudarshan.....................................................04
Corporate Overview.............................................06
Geographical Presence.......................................08
Key Performance Indicators..............................09
Bolder embodies courage 
and ambition — our resolve to 
challenge convention, push 
boundaries, and turn challenges 
into opportunities for growth.
Message from the Chairman.............................10
Message from the Managing Director............12
Product Innovations and Applications...........14
Sustainable Operations.......................................16
Board of Directors.................................................18
Together represents collaboration 
and shared purpose, where growth 
happens because the strongest 
results come from working 
collectively. By combining expertise, 
creativity, and responsibility, we build 
solutions that are not only effective 
and meaningful, but also sustainable.
This is how we color the future — 
shaping a world where possibilities are 
limitless, innovation is constant, and 
every hue tells a story of progress.
Corporate Information............................................19
Management Discussion and Analysis...............20
Board’s Report...........................................................28
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report...............................................50
Corporate Governance Report..............................90
Independent Auditor’s Report........................... 109
Financial Statements........................................... 125
Integration Story
Weaving in Color
In FY2025, a defining chapter unfolded as Sudarshan Chemical 
Industries Limited (“SCIL”) united three global leaders — 
Sudarshan, Heubach, and Clariant’s pigment business — to form 
ONE Sudarshan. For Heubach India, this marked the dawn of a 
new era, weaving together of shared strengths, complementary 
expertise, and a united ambition to lead globally as a customer-
centric force in colorants and pigments. 
From the moment the Heubach-Sudarshan transaction was signed, the journey moved forward with purpose 
and precision. The Integrated Management Office (IMO) anchored this transition,  ensuring milestones were 
intentional and every decision aligned with the larger vision. 
Four Pillars of the IMO
Master 
Planning
Mapping milestones, 
timelines, and 
Day 1 readiness
Organisation
Defining leadership 
roles, aligning teams, 
and preparing new 
reporting structures
Value 
Capture
Identifying 
synergies in cost, 
growth, and cash
Change 
Management
Embedding cultural, 
operational, and 
communication 
foundations for a 
smooth transition
Led by a clear vision and strengthened by the 
commitment of teams worldwide, the integration 
has advanced with focus and momentum. Under 
ONE Sudarshan, Heubach now stands on a 
stronger foundation to accelerate scale, deepen 
capabilities, and enhance global relevance. 
Collaboration powers our progress. 
Ambition shapes our future.
“The integration with Sudarshan significantly 
strengthens our operational and supply chain 
capabilities. By combining Sudarshan’s agile operations 
with Heubach India’s global footprint, we gain a 
diversified asset base that enhances risk management, 
optimises logistics, and improves responsiveness to 
regional markets. Together, these synergies enable us 
to drive efficiency, accelerate innovation, and deliver 
superior service excellence to our customers.”
Sambit Roy
Managing Director,  
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
02
03
Annual Report 2024-25
Heubach Colorants India Limited
ONE Sudarshan 
Unveiling ONE Sudarshan 
In March 2025, a unified brand identity was unveiled, bringing together the heritage and 
strengths of Sudarshan, Heubach, and Clariant’s pigment business. With over 270 years 
of combined expertise, this rebranding reflects a bold ambition to be a global, customer-
centric leader in colorants and pigments.
ONE Sudarshan’s purpose is to unleash joy, vibrancy, 
and possibilities and its mission is to be the 
inspirational leader of the colorants industry, delivering 
breakthrough results for all our stakeholders through 
reliable and sustainable solutions.
Expanded Manufacturing Footprint
19 
Manufacturing 
facilities
11
Countries 
with sites
Truly Global Reach
4,000+
Global 
customers
Fastest growing and most profitable pigment 
company with 1,270+ employees
Customer centricity (Sevā) as a core value 
and strong entrepreneurial and agile culture 
75+ years of experience in pigment industry 
with global presence (85+ nations) and wide 
product portfolio (695 products)
Top-2 player globally with a legacy of over 200 
years and about a billion Euros in revenue
Global manufacturing footprint with 17 sites 
across the world and expansive customer base 
Broad and high-quality product portfolio 
with advanced product development and 
R&D capabilities
One Team | One Goal | One System | One Culture | One Face to All Stakeholders
A global, value-creating pigment leader, rooted in customer centricity and agility
120+
Countries with 
customers
Unrivalled Pigment Portfolio 
and Technology
~1,600
Pigment 
products
63
Brands
200+
Employees working 
in technology roles
“The new identity isn’t just visual — 
it is a symbol of our united purpose, 
our global vision, and our shared 
belief in delivering breakthrough 
value to customers worldwide.”
Rajesh Rathi 
Chairman
Heubach India Legacy
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
05
Annual Report 2024-25
04
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Our Purpose
Our Mission
Our Values
Today, as part of ONE Sudarshan, Heubach India 
enters a new chapter of growth and scale. 
Together, the companies have united complementary 
strengths in application expertise and global reach to 
deliver sustainable, high-performance solutions. This 
partnership reinforces our legacy of excellence while 
opening new horizons and shaping the next generation 
of innovative, sustainable colorant solutions for 
industries worldwide.
To unleash vibrancy, joy, 
and possibilities
To be the inspirational 
leader of the colorants 
industry, delivering 
breakthrough results 
for all our stakeholders 
through reliable and 
sustainable solutions
Respect: We listen actively 
and embrace diverse voices
Entrepreneurship: We spot 
opportunity, own it, do it
Agility: We act quickly 
and decisively
Passion: We put our heart in 
everything we do
Seva: We create joy 
through service
06
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Corporate Overview
An Evolving Legacy 
About Heubach Colorants India Limited
Heubach India has long mastered the hidden artistry of 
pigments, creating solutions that shape everyday experiences 
across industries. Our pigments and preparations find 
applications in interior and exterior paints, automotive and coil 
coatings, plastics, corrosion protection, pharmaceuticals, and 
even seed coloration. 
With deep expertise in complex chemistries, product 
performance, and applications, combined with a global 
manufacturing footprint, we have long been a driving force 
in the global pigment industry, delivering vibrancy and 
functionality across diverse markets worldwide.
Rooted in Sudarshan’s vision, mission, and purpose, we at Heubach India are weaving these 
guiding principles into our culture, strengthening the shared identity of ONE Sudarshan.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
07
Annual Report 2024-25
Heubach Colorants India Limited
06
Geographical Presence
Our Global Canvas 
One Sudarshan operates a global network of 19 production sites across 
Europe, the Americas, Asia, and Africa, built on operational excellence 
and sustainability. Supported by a worldwide sales and distribution 
presence, we ensure a reliable supply of high-quality materials, 
complemented by technical consultancy, swift delivery, tailored 
warehousing, and customised solutions.
Key Performance Indicators
The Pulse of Progress  
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
9.9 %
Operating EBITDA Margin
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
6.24 %
PAT Margin
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
I52,334 Lakh
Net Worth
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
I82,506 Lakh
Revenue from Operations
I8,180 Lakh
Operating EBITDA
I5,145 Lakh
Profit After Tax
82,506
73,077
83,951
76,642 79,070
8,180
7,208
6,147
6,165
8,186
5,145
4,114
1,918
4,332
3,511
9.9
9.1
8.0
7.3
11.2
6.24
5.2
2.5
5.2
4.8
52,334
47,244
43,242
41,387
40,722
Inorganic pigment
Organic pigment
Preparations
Fairless Hills 
PA, the US
Santa Clara, 
Mexico
Maipú, Chile
Suzano, 
Brazil
Chamdor, 
South Africa
Frankfurt, 
Germany
Langelsheim, 
Germany
Nagda, India
Tianjin, China
Shizuoka, 
Japan
Hangzhou, 
China
Bangpoo, 
Thailand
Tangerang, 
Indonesia
Roha*, India
*Roha includes two manufacturing plants.
Mahad, 
India
Dahej, India
Ankleshwar, 
India
Cuddalore, 
India
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
09
Annual Report 2024-25
08
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Message from the Chairman
Day-1 Readiness
Following the acquisition, our priority from day one was 
clear: to stabilise operations, harmonise product portfolios, 
and strengthen supply chains. Despite a six-week disruption 
linked to Group-level insolvency proceedings, Heubach India 
remained day-1 ready, ensuring business continuity and 
customer service. Revenues of ₹779 Crore during FY2024–
25 reflect the commitment of our people, the agility of our 
leadership, and the confidence of our customers.
Powering Ahead
Our immediate focus was to protect our core customers, 
accelerate integration, and exercise financial discipline 
while continuing to invest selectively in innovation and 
sustainability. Just as important has been the task of winning 
back trust among our customers, rebuilding relationships, 
and, most critically, regaining business. These actions have 
stabilised operations, unlocked early synergies, and reinforced 
confidence in our ability to deliver. Yet integration is a journey, 
and disciplined execution will remain essential.
Industry Positioning
With the pigments industry steadily consolidating into a 
few global players, Heubach India is well positioned in ONE 
Sudarshan, which is among the top two players in the global 
pigments industry. With 19 manufacturing sites across 11 
countries, Heubach India has the scale and reach to compete. 
At the same time, we operate in markets exposed to regulatory 
shifts, raw material volatility, and changing demand cycles — 
risks that we must continue to manage prudently.
Global Culture
A key dimension of our success lies in our people. Heubach 
brings together diverse teams across geographies and 
cultures, and our ability to integrate this talent into a unified 
organisation will shape long-term performance. Motivating 
employees, re-energising morale, and strengthening faith 
across the organisation are central to this effort. Our employees 
have shown remarkable resilience during uncertain times, and 
we are committed to upholding their confidence and advancing 
their aspirations as we move forward.
Innovation and Sustainability
In FY2024–25, we introduced certified Product Carbon 
Footprints for 13 Azo pigments, reinforcing transparency 
and supporting customers in achieving their sustainability 
goals. Our R&D pipeline balances near-term improvements 
in coatings, inks, plastics, and personal care with longer-
term research into bio-based pigments and emerging 
technologies. These opportunities hold promise but also 
require disciplined investment.
Sustainability is embedded in our strategy as both a responsibility 
and a driver of growth. We are advancing renewable energy 
use, efficiency measures, and eco-responsible product design, 
while embedding accountability through transparent ESG 
practices. Progress requires sustained effort and resources, 
but it is essential for long-term competitiveness.
Looking Ahead
The successful integration of ONE Sudarshan is the foundation 
for our future aspirations. Our objective is to make Heubach India 
a reliable growth driver for the Group, setting new benchmarks 
in customer trust, innovation, and sustainable operations.
As I assume this responsibility, I wish to thank all who stood 
with us during a challenging year — our employees for their 
dedication, our customers and suppliers for their confidence, 
and you, our shareholders, for your trust and patience. Together, 
we will overcome challenges and shape a more resilient, 
innovative, and sustainable future for the pigments industry.
Warm regards,
Rajesh Rathi
Chairman
FY2025 has proven that Heubach 
India is capable of turning adversity 
into opportunity — a quality that will 
continue to define our journey forward.
Dear Stakeholders,
It is with a sense of responsibility and 
humility that I present my first address 
as Chairman of Heubach Colorants India 
Limited, together with the Annual Report 
for the financial year 2024–25. This has 
been a year that tested our resilience 
while also reaffirming our position within 
the global pigment industry.
At this important juncture, I warmly 
welcome all of you into ONE Sudarshan — a 
unified company that honors the legacies 
of Sudarshan, Heubach, and Clariant 
Pigments. Each brings a heritage of 
innovation, customer trust, and technical 
excellence. Together, we have created the 
most valuable pigment player.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Heubach Colorants India Limited
10
11
Annual Report 2024-25
Message from the Managing Director 
Delivering Performance
At Heubach, our focus remains on driving sustainable growth, 
while delivering value to our customers and stakeholders. 
FY2025 demonstrated our resilience, strategic agility, 
and growth momentum. The integration with Sudarshan 
strengthens our global operations and supply chain, combining 
Sudarshan’s agility with Heubach’s footprint to optimise 
logistics, reduce lead times, and enhance service excellence. 
Despite a six-week disruption in April-May, domestic sales 
grew 5% and exports 6%, with our innovation pipeline and 
Business Continuity Plan contributing ₹77.2 Crore in revenue. 
This synergy, blending Heubach’s 200-year legacy with 
Sudarshan’s customer-centric “SEVA” approach, strengthens 
our innovation pipeline, broadens our market reach, and 
accelerates our ability to serve customers with both scale 
and speed. 
Purpose-Led Growth 
Amidst a year of complex challenges, our ability to respond 
decisively reinforced both performance and confidence. 
Disciplined execution, strong governance, and a customer-
first approach sustained growth across key segments and 
reinforced stakeholder confidence. This resilience now guides 
strategic investment in innovation, ESG initiatives, and 
capacity optimisation, underpinning long-term value creation 
while maintaining financial robustness.
Heubach is redefining growth beyond scale, creating value 
across markets for people, and with purpose. We are advancing 
green innovation, customer-centric solutions, and operational 
efficiencies globally. By fostering collaboration, empowerment, 
and trust, and embedding sustainability into our operations 
from low-emission pigments to carbon-reduction strategies, 
we ensure growth that delivers strong performance and 
meaningful, lasting impact.
Pioneering Innovations
The  integration has positioned Sudarshan Chemical Group as 
the second-largest pigment manufacturer globally, combing 
Sudarshan’s agility with Heubach’s technical legacy to drive 
next-generation, sustainable color solutions. Our R&D develops 
high-performance, customised pigments for coatings, 
plastics, inks, and specialty applications including Home and 
Personal Care, Agro, and Stationery. FY2025 witnessed the 
innovations of Ultrazur™ Ultramarine Blue, Hostatint™ SA, 
and the Automotive Styling Shades 2027 Trendbook – “Plan 
B for Planet A,” which provides a visionary color forecast for 
sustainable automotive design. With 19 global sites, we are 
expanding across geographies, segments, and industries while 
redefining benchmarks in sustainability and service.
Empowering Our People
Our people are at the heart of Heubach’s transformation, and 
the integration has been guided by a clear focus on talent 
alignment and empowerment. The integration focuses on 
aligning talent with the right roles and adopting potential-driven 
recruitment, using tools to identify adaptability, creativity, and 
problem-solving skills — the qualities that will shape our future. 
We are moving beyond productivity to emphasise well-being, 
innovation, and team-driven ways of working, with our leaders 
exemplifying the values and behaviours we strive to uphold. 
Transparency, open communication, and active employee 
participation foster trust, unify diverse teams, and build a 
high-performing global workforce. This approach ensures 
cultural integration becomes a source of long-term strength 
and growth.
Leading with Sustainability 
As sustainability regulations around the world become 
more stringent, Heubach is proactively preparing not just to 
comply, but to help shape industry standards for responsible 
color solutions. In India, we are investing in renewable 
energy projects to power our Roha and Cuddalore sites, 
targeting over 65% renewable energy usage in the near-term. 
To ensure transparency and accountability in measuring our 
environmental impact, we have adopted a TÜV Rheinland-
certified product carbon footprint methodology, setting a 
strong benchmark for the industry.
Our strategy is also firmly aligned with the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals, reflecting our broader commitment to 
global environmental stewardship. By embedding sustainability 
into innovation, operations, and governance, we are positioning 
Heubach to lead the transition toward environmentally 
responsible pigments worldwide.
Emerging Horizons 
As Heubach navigates this transformational phase, our 
leadership priorities focus on building a strong, sustainable 
foundation for the future. Safety and well-being remain 
paramount, alongside driving innovation, customer-centric 
solutions, and operational agility to adapt quickly to dynamic 
markets. Above all, we are committed to operating as ONE 
Sudarshan — a unified, purpose-driven organisation where 
global scale and local strength come together to deliver value 
for all stakeholders.
Integration challenges, including aligning operations, 
systems, and cultures, have been met with strategic focus, 
agile problem-solving, and financial discipline, stabilising 
the business while maintaining momentum toward long-
term growth. Looking ahead, our strategy is anchored on 
three pillars: customer intimacy, sustainable innovation, and 
operational agility. By anticipating evolving market needs and 
investing in breakthrough R&D over a 3-5-year horizon, we 
aim to shape the future of pigments. Operational flexibility and 
excellence ensure we respond swiftly to market shifts while 
maintaining service reliability.
Over the next three years, our ambition is to grow sustainably 
above GDP levels, complete integration to unlock synergies, and 
deliver high returns through disciplined financial management 
and strategic investments in technology, sustainability, and 
talent. These priorities position Heubach to lead the pigments 
industry, set new benchmarks in innovation and sustainability, 
and create lasting value for customers, employees, and 
shareholders alike.
As I close, I want to sincerely thank all our shareholders and 
stakeholders for their unwavering support and trust. Your 
confidence has enabled us to navigate challenges with clarity 
and purpose. Together, we have laid strong foundations, and I 
am confident that the future holds even greater opportunities 
for growth, innovation, and shared success.
Warm regards,
Sambit Roy
Managing Director 
As Heubach India navigates this 
transformational phase, our 
leadership priorities focus on 
building a strong, sustainable 
foundation for the future. 
Dear Stakeholders,
I am pleased to share Heubach’s journey over 
the past year, a period marked by growth 
and new opportunities. The integration 
with Sudarshan Chemical Group has been 
a transformative step, strengthening 
our operations, expanding our reach, and 
enhancing our ability to serve customers 
with speed and scale. Together, we are driving 
innovation, building capabilities, and creating 
lasting value for our stakeholders.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
13
Annual Report 2024-25
Heubach Colorants India Limited
12
Product Innovations and Applications
Innovations in Every Hue 
At Heubach India, innovation fuels agility and relevance. By 
uniting technical expertise with future-ready thinking, we create 
sustainable, high-impact solutions that anticipate market needs 
and shape tomorrow’s possibilities. 
At Heubach, innovation shapes how we 
create value and stay future-ready. Our 
approach is structured around two levels 
of innovation:
	y
Life Cycle Innovation (LCI): Enhancing and 
modifying existing products to align with changing 
application demands and customer requirements
	y
Top Line Innovation (TLI): Developing entirely new 
products designed for specific segments, applications, 
or regions, unlocking fresh growth opportunities
Every innovation initiative at Heubach is purpose-driven, 
designed to solve customer challenges, anticipate trends, 
optimise costs, secure alternative resources, meet evolving 
regulations, and enhance functional performance.
In FY2025, Heubach launched a series of 
impactful new products across industries, 
demonstrating both initiative and agility in 
responding to customer needs:
	y
Cosmenyl 100-IN series for home and personal 
care applications
	y
Polyfast PUF series for PU foam
	y
Colanyl 500-IN series, Hansa Brilliant Yellow 2GX 70-
IN, Hostaperm Pink E-WD-IN and Hostaperm Scarlet 
GO-01 for architectural coatings
	y
Novoperm Yellow HR 70-IN and Dalamar Yellow 805 
for industrial coatings
	y
PV Fast Orange H2GL-IN for plastics
Our innovative solutions strengthened our portfolio and drove 
adoption among key customers, reinforcing leadership in 
sustainable, high-performance color solutions. Backed by 
decades of expertise and global application knowledge, our 
cross-functional teams swiftly translate insights into solutions, 
reflecting our resilience, adaptability, and ambition to set new 
benchmarks in the pigments industry.
Sustainable Color Solutions 
Our portfolio is built to conserve resources, minimise 
environmental impact, and deliver high-performance 
solutions. We are introducing new sustainable color 
innovations that embody our commitment to safety, 
quality, and environmental responsibility. 
	y
Ultrazur HGIN62-R - Home & Personal Care
Ultramarine Blue is based on C.I. Pigment Blue 29. Ultramarine Blues provide a 
unique reddish undertone blue color and can easily tint many colors. Ultrazur 
HGIN62-R is an Ultramarine for which there is a special quality control to 
fulfil cosmetic purity specifications and succeed at meeting microbiological 
requirements for cosmetic and home care applications.
Shaping Future 
Solutions
Expanding the 
Palette
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
15
Annual Report 2024-25
14
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Sustainable Operations
Performance with Purpose 
As a manufacturer of chemical raw materials, we are committed to 
minimising environmental impact by embedding energy efficiency, 
sustainable operations, and resource optimisation into our processes. 
With a responsible and proactive approach, we ensure our operations 
uphold the highest standards of environmental stewardship.
Energy Efficiency
At Heubach India, we prioritise energy efficiency 
through initiatives such as installing Variable 
Frequency Drives (VFDs) for motors, switching 
to LED lighting in production plants, and 
implementing energy monitoring systems to 
optimise electricity use. The Hybrid Power Plant 
(solar + wind) marks a transition to renewable 
energy, while bio-briquettes for steam generation 
significantly reduce CO₂ emissions.
Operational Sustainability
We strengthen operational sustainability through 
initiatives such as the Hybrid Power Plant 
and transparent polycarbonate sheets that 
harness natural lighting. Additional measures, 
including waste heat recovery, adoption of 
alternate fuels, reduced water consumption, 
and advanced process controls, further reinforce 
environmentally responsible operations.
Resource Optimisation
Heubach drives resource efficiency by reducing 
batch cycle times and improving yields, ensuring 
better process output. Training and awareness 
programmes on water consumption, coupled 
with waste heat recovery measures, further 
emphasise responsible use of resources and 
minimising waste.
Driving ESG Through Operations
Powering Responsibly
From renewable energy adoption to eco-
green synthesis processes, we continue to 
reduce emissions, conserve resources, and 
embed Responsible Care in every aspect 
of manufacturing
Circular Solutions
Our Integrated Waste Management System (IWM 
System) transforms waste streams into useful 
inputs, setting new benchmarks for sustainable 
pigment manufacturing
Sustainability in Action
Greening the Landscape
For over 20 years, Heubach India has planted 
more than 50,000 trees and saplings, fostering 
biodiversity and creating a natural habitat for 
birds, insects, and plant species
The 3R Mindset
At our DSIR-recognised R&D Center, we embrace 
Recycle, Reuse, Reduce, ensuring product 
development is efficient, sustainable, and 
generates minimal waste
Water Stewardship
Through advanced treatment technologies 
and recycling practices, we ensure responsible 
water use while supporting both operations and 
the environment
Transparency and Commitment
Heubach upholds sustainability through 
transparent ESG reporting, keeping stakeholders 
informed of progress, challenges, and goals, while 
fostering a culture of continuous improvement. 
Our commitment extends publicly as we are 
signatories of the UN Global Compact and 
active partners in Responsible Care, reinforcing 
our dedication to human rights, anti-corruption, 
environmental protection, and safe chemical 
practices across the value chain
Ethical Sourcing
At Heubach, we work closely with suppliers 
across continents to ensure raw materials are 
procured responsibly, while actively setting 
higher standards for environmental and social 
responsibility. By engaging our partners, we 
aim to shape a more sustainable industry and 
future together
Quality Standards 
For Heubach, quality means aligning with 
customer expectations, safeguarding the 
environment, and ensuring the highest levels 
of safety. With 90% of our production sites 
certified under ISO 9001, 14001, and 45001, we 
continuously raise the bar, strengthening both 
product excellence and process integrity
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
16
17
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Board of Directors
Visionaries Guiding  
Innovation and Growth 
Corporate
Information
Mrs. Anu Wakhlu 
Non-Executive and  
Independent Director  
(effective April 14, 2025)
Mr. Naresh Raisinghani 
Non-Executive and  
Independent Director  
(effective April 14, 2025)
Mr. Mandar Velankar    
Non-Executive and 
Non-Independent Director  
(effective May 02, 2025)
Mr. Jugal Sahu 
Executive Director and 
Chief Financial Officer 
(ceased as an Executive Director 
effective August 11, 2025)
Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay   
Non-Executive and  
Independent Director  
(appointed effective April 14, 2025 and 
resigned effective August 11, 2025)
Mr. Kewal Handa 
Non-Executive and 
Independent Director
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar 
Non-Executive and 
Independent Director
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Non-Executive and 
Independent Director
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Jugal Sahu 
Company Secretary
Ms. Amee Joshi (till June 30, 2024)
Ms. Ashwini Natekar (Interim) (from 
September 20, 2024 till July 16, 2025)
Mr. Adwait Joshi (effective August 01, 2025)
Statutory Auditors
Citibank N.A. 
Standard Chartered Bank 
HDFC Bank Limited
Registrar & Transfer Agents
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly 
Link Intime India Private Limited) 
C-101, 247 Park, L. B. S. Marg, Vikhroli 
(West) Mumbai – 400 083, Maharashtra  
Phone: (+91) 22 20874406 
Email:investor.relations_india@heubach.com
Plant Locations  
Roha Site
113/114, M.I.D.C. Industrial Area 
A.V.P.O. Dhatav, Taluka Roha 
District Raigad – 402 116, Maharashtra  
Nagda Site 
Plot/Phase No. 378/2/2 
Durgapura Colony Road, Birlagram 
Nagda – 456 331, Madhya Pradesh  
Cuddalore Site
Kudikadu, SIPCOT 
Post Cuddalore – 607 005, Tamil Nadu
Bankers
M/s. MSKA & Associates 
Mr. Ravi Kapoor
Chairman (Non-Executive) 
(till July 16, 2025)
Mr. Rajesh Rathi 
Chairman and Non-Executive and 
Non-Independent Director  
(appointed as a Director effective 
April 14, 2025 and as a Chairman 
effective July 16, 2025)
Mr. Sambit Roy  
Managing Director 
(effective November 25, 2024) 
Mr. Bharath Sesha 
Managing Director 
(till August 31, 2024)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
19
Annual Report 2024-25
18
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Management Discussion and Analysis
Economic Outlook
Global
Despite uncertainty in the world economic outlook since April 
2025, global growth is projected at 3.0% in 2025 and 3.1% in 
2026, according to the International Monetary Fund’s World 
Economic Outlook Update (July 2025). The 2025 forecast is 
0.2 percentage points higher than April’s projection, while the 
2026 forecast is 0.1 points higher. The IMF attributes these 
upward revisions to front-loading of activity ahead of tariff 
measures, lower effective US tariff rates than previously 
assumed, and improved financial conditions, including support 
from a weaker US dollar.
At the same time, global headline inflation is expected to fall 
to 4.2% in 2025 and 3.6% in 2026, broadly unchanged from 
earlier projections.
World trade volume shows a short-term boost, with a +0.9 
percentage point revision in 2025, followed by a –0.6 point 
adjustment in 2026. This reflects the temporary lift from front-
loaded trade flows in the face of policy uncertainty, with a 
payback effect expected the following year.
Overall, the IMF notes that the global outlook shows resilience 
despite ongoing trade and policy uncertainty. Looking ahead, 
credible trade agreements, stronger labor market measures, 
and streamlined business regulations could provide fresh 
momentum to medium-term growth.
India
With RBI's GDP projection at 6.5% for FY2025 and FY2026, 
the Indian economy's growth momentum remains balanced 
and strong, supplemented by reviving urban demand, surging 
investments, uniform rural demand, and the government's 
continued nudge on capex. 
India’s headline consumer price index (CPI) inflation eased 
to 2.8% in May 2025, the lowest in six years, supported by 
steady crop production and moderating food prices. Softer 
commodity and crude oil prices, amid expectations of slower 
global growth, have also kept the risk of imported inflation 
relatively low, though geopolitical tensions remain a source 
of uncertainty.
On the growth front, India continues to draw strength from 
its resilient services sector, expanding manufacturing base 
under the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, and 
a stable banking system. High-value manufacturing and 
services—particularly in electronics and defence—underscore 
the country’s growing competitiveness and expanding role in 
global trade.
Overall, India’s economic trajectory reflects stability and 
resilience, supported by rural consumption, infrastructure 
investments, and favourable financing conditions, even as 
global headwinds persist.
Industry Overview
Global Speciality Chemical Industry
The global specialty chemicals market is looking at steady 
growth prospects, driven by rising demand across construction, 
water treatment, electronics, and personal care industries. 
Growth is further supported by advancements in process 
technology, trade liberalisation, and expanding opportunities 
in emerging economies. Increasing consumption of processed 
food and beverages in developed nations is boosting demand 
for flavouring agents, while novel flavours and fragrances 
continue to shape market growth. In the US, strong demand 
from the water treatment, automotive, and electronics sectors 
is expected to support expansion. Additionally, rising use of 
detergents, cleaning products, and crop protection chemicals 
is anticipated to further fuel market momentum over the 
forecast period.
The Asia Pacific region leads the specialty chemicals market, 
driven by rapid industrialisation, economic growth, and 
expansion of end-use sectors such as food and beverages, 
personal care, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals. China, India, 
and Japan are key manufacturing hubs, with China's position 
as a global production leader further reinforcing regional 
market strength.
India Speciality Chemical Industry
India is rapidly emerging as a global hub for specialty chemicals, 
with growth underpinned by innovation, collaboration, and a 
strong focus on sustainability. Specialty chemicals make up 
about one-fifth of the $4 Trillion global chemicals industry. 
India’s market is projected to grow at a robust 12% CAGR to 
reach $64 Billion by 2025.
A major driver has been the surge in exports, as global supply 
chain diversification prompts the US, Europe, and Japan 
to seek alternatives beyond China. In this regard, India's 
skilled workforce, technical expertise, and cost-efficient 
manufacturing give it a competitive edge. In response, 
domestic players are scaling up capacity and investing in R&D 
to capture rising global demand and strengthen their position 
in the value chain.
Furthermore, India's expanding middle class, rapid 
urbanisation, and rising living standards are driving demand 
for specialty chemicals. Growth is evident across personal 
care, household cleaning, and water treatment products, while 
construction chemicals are gaining traction in line with the 
country's infrastructure push and urban development goals.
Moreover, the government has prioritised specialty chemicals 
under its Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat programs, 
encouraging investment, localisation, and R&D. Measures 
include potential extension of the Production-Linked Incentive 
(PLI) scheme to the sector and efforts to reduce import 
dependence on critical raw materials by promoting upstream 
integration and a stronger domestic supply chain.
Global Organic Pigments Industry
The global organic pigments market, valued at $5.7 Billion 
in 2023, is projected to grow at a CAGR of 4.7% to reach 
nearly $8.6 Billion by 2032. Growth is driven by expanding 
use in printing inks and paints & coatings, alongside rising 
demand from packaging and textiles. Emerging economies 
are expected to play a key role, supported by growing textile 
output and a shift in consumer preference toward eco-friendly 
products. The market is also witnessing a clear move toward 
low-VOC and sustainable pigment solutions, reinforcing their 
appeal across diverse applications.
Emerging economies are driving the growth of the global 
organic pigments market, supported by rapid industrialisation, 
urbanisation, and expanding consumer demand. Strong 
momentum in construction, automotive, packaging, textiles, 
and consumer goods across countries such as China, India, 
Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia, and Vietnam continues to fuel 
market expansion.
India Organic Pigments Industry
In India, growing environmental awareness and stricter 
regulations are driving a shift from synthetic to organic 
pigments, with rising demand across textiles, coatings, 
and polymers. This transition is creating opportunities for 
local manufacturers to develop innovative, eco-friendly 
formulations for diverse industries.
India's rapidly expanding textile sector is a key driver of organic 
pigment demand. Government initiatives and budgetary 
support have provided strong momentum to the industry. 
Several initiatives have been introduced to support and grow 
the Indian textile market, with the Union Budget providing a 
notable boost.
Furthermore, India's growing packaging industry is driving 
demand for organic pigments as brands shift to safer, 
recyclable options, while the automotive sector is adopting 
them for durable, eco-friendly, high-performance coatings. 
Moreover, process innovations are fuelling growth in India's 
organic pigments market, with advances in biotechnology 
and nanotechnology enabling more vibrant, durable, and eco-
friendly pigments. The Department of Science and Technology 
reports a 30% rise in pigment-related patents over the past five 
years, highlighting a strong R&D focus on efficiency and quality.
Company Overview
Heubach Colorants India Limited (HCIL) (hereafter referred 
to as "HCIL" or "the Company") is among the leading global 
producers of organic pigments, offering a comprehensive 
portfolio backed by sustainability, Responsible Care practices, 
and a strong commitment to product safety. The Company 
operates a dedicated R&D centre along with advanced 
application and analytical laboratories to develop pigments 
and preparations for diverse uses in paints, inks, and plastics. 
HCIL also brings expertise in high-value segments such as 
automotive coatings and digital printing. Over the years, the 
Company has maintained steady growth through forward, 
backward, and lateral integration, ensuring supply security 
and strengthening client relationships. As a Responsible 
Care-certified organisation, with ISO 14000 and ISO 18000 
accreditations, HCIL embeds sustainability into every aspect 
of its operations, making it an intrinsic part of its culture.
HCIL, based in Navi Mumbai, India, has a strong manufacturing 
presence across India with manufacturing facilities 
strategically located in Roha (Maharashtra), Cuddalore (Tamil 
Nadu), and Nagda (Madhya Pradesh). The Company exports 
via associated entities to over 75 countries, serves more than 
100 domestic customers, and offers over 500 products.
HCIL has a rich history of shaping the world of colors and has 
established a legacy of excellence. The Company is committed 
to pioneering sustainable color technologies to create a 
brighter future. It is dedicated to driving positive change in the 
pigments industry through industry-leading Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) measures. These measures 
ensure that HCIL's operations meet the highest standards 
in quality and sustainability while maintaining ethical 
business practices.
On March 3, 2025, Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited 
(SCIL), through its wholly owned subsidiary Sudarshan Europe 
B.V., completed the acquisition of Germany-based Heubach 
Group in a combination of an asset and share deal, and as 
a result, 58 subsidiaries (including step-down subsidiaries) 
and two joint venture companies have now become a part of 
Sudarshan Chemical Group. SCIL, incorporated in 1951 in Pune, 
is a multinational pigment and color solutions leader. With over 
270 years of combined expertise between Sudarshan Chemical 
Group and Heubach Group, this strategic transaction has 
created a global pigment leader, combining SCIL's operational 
expertise with Heubach's advanced technological capabilities. 
ONE Sudarshan is a unified brand identity that brings together 
the heritage and strengths of Sudarshan, Heubach, and 
Clariant Pigments. The new identity reflects the ambition 
to build a global, customer-centric leader in colorants and 
pigments, while honouring the legacies that shaped its 
foundation. With an expanded, high-quality pigment range 
and a strong presence in key markets such as Europe and 
the Americas, ONE Sudarshan is well-positioned to deliver 
comprehensive, customer-focused solutions across the 
global pigments industry. While ownership has changed, the 
brand continuity and operational stability of Heubach colorant 
India remain intact. The immediate priority is to operate as 
ONE unified organisation, integrating Clariant Pigments, 
Heubach, and Sudarshan to drive synergies, unlock efficiencies, 
and build on shared values.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
20
21
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Product Portfolio
Organic Pigments: Offer vibrant colors across a broad range 
of colorful compounds derived from organic sources.
Inorganic Pigments: Known for excellent opacity and 
durability, though colors are less intense, and the range 
is narrower.
Pigment Preparations: Carefully formulated liquid or solid 
pigment mixes tailored for customised colors and specific uses.
Dyes: Sustainable specialty and aluminium dyes providing 
eco-friendly coloring solutions.
Product Features
Organic Pigments
	y
High chroma
	y
High color strength
	y
Large coverage of color space
	y
Limited resistance
Inorganic Pigments
	y
Lower chroma
	y
Lower color strength
	y
Limited color space
	y
High opacity
	y
High resistance/fastness properties
Pigment Preparations
	y
Pre-dispersed pigment in liquid & solid form
	y
Custom color blends
	y
Specialised properties for specific use cases
Dyes
	y
Specialty Dyes
	y
Aluminium Dyes
HCIL's Colorants Portfolio Composition
Organic Pigments
	y
Quinacridone
	y
Dioxazine
	y
Benzimidazolone
	y
DPP
	y
Isoindolinone
	y
Perylene
	y
Phthalos
Inorganic Pigments
	y
Bismuth Vanadate
	y
Rutile pigments
	y
Cobalt blue
	y
Spinel pigments
Pigment Preparations
	y
Based on high-performance pigments
	y
Customised solutions
Dyes
	y
Polymer soluble dyes
	y
Solvent dyes
	y
Water-soluble dyes
Applications
The Company's products are used in various industries, 
including coatings, plastics, printing, and special applications. 
Coatings is the largest segment by revenue, followed by 
plastics, special applications and printing, amongst others.
Coatings
HCIL's wide range of high-performance organic and inorganic 
pigments, as well as pigment preparations, are known for their 
brilliance and durability, especially in paints and coatings. 
They are highly effective in various applications, such as 
the following:
	y
Automotive coatings
	y
Coil coatings
	y
Corrosion protection
	y
Exterior paints and plasters
	y
Floor coatings
	y
Industrial coatings
	y
Interior decorative paints
	y
Powder coatings
	y
Road marking and traffic paints
	y
Wood coatings
Plastics
HCIL's products for plastics meet strict global standards 
for environmental, health, and safety, aiming to conserve 
energy and reduce carbon footprint. They are used in diverse 
applications such as:
	y
Automotive plastics
	y
Construction and electrical components
	y
Consumer goods
	y
Fiber production
	y
Packaging
Printing & Digital Printing
Modern printing demands versatile and high-quality solutions. 
HCIL's pigments and pigment preparations are tailored to meet 
the needs of inkjet, toner, offset, flexographic, and gravure 
printing, performing exceptionally well with UV, solvent, and 
water-based inks.
HCIL's printing solutions serve various industries:
	y
Inkjet printing
	y
Packaging printing
	y
Publication printing
	y
Specialty printing
	y
Toner
Special Applications
The Company's wide range of pigment dispersions and 
pigments is suitable for a variety of applications, from vibrant 
textiles to high-quality handbags, lightweight aluminium 
casings to colorful balloons.
HCIL's solutions are versatile and cater to:
	y
Home & fabric care
	y
Personal care products
	y
Seed coloration & crop protection
	y
Aluminium anodising dyes and chemicals
	y
Stationery
	y
Viscose coloration & Textile printing
	y
Latex coloration
	y
Leather and paper coloration
	y
Concrete & plaster
Innovations in Eco-Friendly Pigments and 
Colorants
The Company has introduced significant innovative products 
across the business segments that cater to its diverse 
customer base. The innovations include the following:
	y
Coatings:
	
−Shift to vibrant shades in automotive, especially EVs, 
leading to increased pigment consumption and the 
development of new shades in our portfolio
	
−Introduced low-VOC colorants for odourless paints along 
with water-borne systems (eco-friendly)
	
−Created lead-free pigments for eco-friendly paints
	
−Delivered high-quality pigments with strong color 
intensity for resource-efficient solutions, enhancing 
material longevity in paints and coatings
	y
Plastics and Printing:
	
−Enabled black polymer identification through Heubach's 
Near Infrared (NIR) technology, facilitating the recycling 
of black plastics
	
−Ensured biodegradability through selected products like 
PV Fast and Graphtol
	
−HCIL's organic pigments comply with strict 
environmental standards and are suitable for coloring 
biodegradable polymers such as polylactic acid (PLA), 
polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA), polybutylene succinate 
(PBS), and polybutylene adipate terephthalate (PBAT)
	
−Innovated pigments for NTNK packaging inks, replacing 
hazardous solvents like toluene and methyl ethyl ketone
	
−Promoted sustainability with biodegradable, OK 
Compost, and recyclable colorant options, prioritising 
environmental protection
	y
Others
	
−Developed water-based pigment preparations for 
three decades, catering to various applications without 
solvents for eco-friendliness
	
−Pioneering in zinc-free alternatives for a decade, HCIL's 
exclusive access to the range of orthophosphates and 
polyphosphates offers effective protection in various 
applications
	
−Prioritised the safe handling of pigments, adhering to 
and often surpassing global regulations
	
−Easy to disperse pigments that make production efficient 
and optimise energy costs
Four Pillars of Our Core Strategy:
Growth
	y
Protect the core and grow the domestic business
	y
Commercialise the innovation pipeline to enhance 
value creation
	y
Further expand our global footprint
	y
Enhance product portfolio across organics
Green Innovation
	y
Keep sustainability as the central driver for business 
and innovation
	y
Responsible use of natural resources
	y
Shifting the plants' energy source to renewable and 
enhancing focus on green chemistry
Efficiency
	y
Increase demand planning accuracy
	y
Focus on improving the production yield and implement a 
cost savings plan across sites
	y
Ensure sales as per the set pricing guidance
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
22
23
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	y
Optimise the net working capital and avoid any unnecessary 
cash blockages
Peace of Mind
	y
Focus on customer satisfaction by ensuring on-time and 
full delivery
	y
Focus on quality and a high complaint closure rate
	y
Product stewardship, safety and regulatory compliance are 
core differentiators
	y
Educate customers and the market on potentially harmful 
byproducts and regulatory issues
Financial Performance
The Company remains dedicated to achieving sustainable 
growth to meet stakeholder expectations. This commitment 
is driven by a strategic approach, efficient cost management, 
and the introduction of innovative products. The Company 
aims to capitalise on market opportunities, enhance its 
competitive position, and drive continued success by aligning 
these factors.
The Company ensures compliance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) for its financial statements in accordance 
with the Companies Act, 2013. In FY2025, the Company 
recorded net revenue of ₹82,506 Lakh, compared to ₹79,070 
Lakh in FY2024, growing by 4.4%. Exports accounted for 32% 
of the total revenue from contracts with customers in FY2025, 
demonstrating its strong global reach and market presence. 
EBITDA grew by 24.5% from ₹8,080 Lakh in FY2024 to ₹10,057 
Lakh in FY2025. EBITDA Margin also grew from 10.2% in 
FY2024 to 12.2% in FY2025. PAT registered 25.06% growth 
in FY2025, by growing from ₹4,114 Lakh in FY2024 to ₹5145 
Lakh in FY2025.
Financial Highlights FY2025 (in ₹ Lakh)
Particulars
Year ended 
on March 
31, 2025
Year ended 
on March 
31, 2024
Income from Operations
82,506
79,070
Operational Profit (EBITDA)
8,180
7,208
Other Income
1,877
872
Profit Before Tax and 
Exceptional Items
7,693
5,600
Exceptional Item
(882)
-
Profit Before Tax
6,811
5,600
Profit After Tax
5,145
4,114
EPS (H)
22.29
17.82
Key Ratio Analysis FY2025
Particulars
Year ended 
on March 
31, 2025
Year ended 
on March 
31, 2024
Debtors' Turnover ratio (x)
4.7
3.8
Inventory Turnover Ratio (x)
3.7
3.8
Debt to Equity Ratio (x)
No borrowings No borrowings
Particulars
Year ended 
on March 
31, 2025
Year ended 
on March 
31, 2024
Current Ratio (x)
2.8
2.2
Interest Coverage Ratio (x)
17.6
21.3
Return on Net Worth (%)
10%
9%
Return on Capital Employed 
(ROCE) (%)
13%
11%
Operating Profit Margin (%)
10%
9%
Net Profit Margin (%)
6%
5%
Outlook and Opportunities
Growing Domestic Demand
As a pigment manufacturing company, HCIL can benefit from 
the rising chemical consumption in sectors such as HPPC, 
textiles, and consumer goods, tapping into substantial growth 
opportunities. With projections indicating that 80% of Indian 
households will move into the middle-income bracket by 
2030, a substantial rise in demand is anticipated for paints 
and coatings. The demand will also be driven by infrastructure 
development, residential & commercial construction, and 
industrial expansion. Government initiatives like the ‘Smart 
Cities Mission’ and ‘Housing for All’ will further amplify these 
construction activities.
Strong Export Potential
With global companies diversifying supply chains away 
from China, India’s chemical sector has significant growth 
opportunities. Competitive manufacturing costs, high-quality 
products, and adherence to global standards position the Indian 
pigment chemicals industry for strong international expansion. 
India’s status as a major chemical exporter is enhanced by cost-
effective manufacturing and strategic location, facilitating 
trade and export opportunities. The Company can leverage 
these advantages to expand internationally and capitalise on 
the shift towards alternative sourcing markets.
Sustainability Initiatives
The growing global demand for eco-friendly and sustainable 
chemicals presents opportunities for Indian companies to 
innovate and capture new markets. Companies that adopt 
eco-friendly practices and offer green alternatives can 
gain a competitive advantage. For instance, the Company’s 
water-based pigment preparations, which are solvent-free, 
highlight its commitment to environmental responsibility. 
Moreover, the Company has invested in renewable energy 
sources to fulfil a significant portion of its energy requirements 
across its production facilities. Using biofuels for boilers 
and steam generation further mirrors HCIL’s dedication to 
sustainable practices.
Technological Advancements
Focusing on research and development for new products, 
improving existing ones, and adopting sustainable practices 
will strengthen the Company’s product portfolio. A key factor 
that sets the Company apart is that it develops innovative 
solutions by combining external insights with its core technical 
expertise. For example, its products address stringent 
regulatory requirements such as LVOC colorants, lead-free 
pigments, and pigments tailored for NTNK packaging ink.
Highly Fragmented Industry
The pigment chemicals industry is fragmented, presenting 
challenges like intense competition but also opportunities for 
companies to stand out and consolidate their position.
Customer-Centric Solutions through Product 
Innovation
HCIL uses its products to deliver meaningful solutions to 
customers. The Company regularly partners with customers 
to understand their most pressing challenges and develops 
solutions to address them. For example, in response to 
feedback to improve plastic recyclability, the Company 
introduced a black colorant. These colorants aid polymer 
identification using near-infrared technology sorting devices, 
offering a solution for enhancing plastic recycling processes.
Challenges
Economic Fluctuations
The expansion of domestic production capacities aimed at 
exports, combined with declining demand in global markets, 
may affect the Company’s business. Last year, downstream 
industrial demands from construction, paints, adhesives, and 
other fabric and packaging sectors dwelt at lower levels with 
stockpiling seen at customers’ end, especially in Europe.
Raw Material Dependency
The rising costs of essential raw materials due to inflation 
present further challenges to the Company. Reliance 
on imported raw materials with fluctuating prices can 
impact production costs and profitability. Exchange rate 
fluctuations can also affect profitability, especially for export-
oriented businesses.
Geopolitical Events
Several geopolitical disruptions adversely affected the overall 
pigments industry, both on the demand and supply side, which 
continues to remain an overhang on the industry. For instance, 
rising energy costs across the EU due to the Russia-Ukraine 
conflict (i.e. cut off from a cheap power supply) continue 
to affect RM prices, and the Red Sea blockage, have led to 
increased lead times and rising freight costs globally.
Environment, Corporate Sustainability, and 
Social Responsibility
The Company is deeply committed to ethical and sustainable 
business practices, guided by principles such as ESG, 
Responsible Care, and its own Code of Conduct. HCIL has 
set ambitious goals to reduce carbon emissions, supported 
by a clear roadmap for achieving them. Sustainability 
forms the foundation of HCIL’s growth strategy, shaping its 
goals, market positioning, differentiation strategy, and risk 
management practices. The Company innovates constantly 
to offer sustainable solutions, enhancing its role as a trusted 
solution provider.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is integral to the 
Company’s philosophy, aligning closely with the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. HCIL 
focuses on significant contributions to areas like education, 
safety, healthcare, and community support to make a 
positive impact on society. The CSR strategy places a strong 
emphasis on integrating sustainable practices, with a focus 
on achieving measurable impacts and promoting partnerships 
with government agencies and other stakeholders. Employee 
engagement programmes are designed to cultivate a culture 
of volunteerism and active participation in CSR initiatives, 
which serve to uphold the Company’s ethical standards 
and enhance its credibility within the community. The CSR 
committee plays a pivotal role in overseeing and conducting 
these CSR activities effectively.
Risk Mitigation and Strategies
The Company emphasises effective risk management to safeguard its business operations and ensure sustainable growth. It 
has established a comprehensive risk management framework that includes identifying, assessing, mitigating, and continuously 
monitoring potential risks across all operational aspects.
Risk Themes
Risk
Mitigation Approach
Business Related
Risk
Industry structure changes have led to 
oversupply and increased competition 
from small players with varying costs and 
quality standards
The Company focuses on product innovation, operational 
efficiency, and maintaining a strong reputation for 
consistent quality.
Challenges 
in 
tapping 
business 
opportunities arise due to a lack of 
innovation, 
insufficient 
customer 
engagement and partnerships
The Company prioritises innovation and promotes active 
customer 
engagement 
and 
strategic 
partnerships 
to overcome these challenges and seize business 
opportunities.
Failure to plan for fluctuating costs can 
affect profitable growth
The Company implements a dynamic cost management 
strategy, which includes regular cost analysis, strategic 
sourcing, and contingency planning.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
24
25
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Risk Themes
Risk
Mitigation Approach
Environmental Risk
Difficulty 
in 
creating 
environmentally 
friendly products through research & 
development
HCIL utilises a specialised research & development team 
focused on innovation and environmentally friendly 
practices to address challenges in developing green and 
sustainable products.
Operational Risk
Lower 
production 
capacity 
utilisation 
impacting efficiency
HCIL implements a detailed production optimisation plan 
to improve capacity utilisation and operational efficiency.
Inadequate planning for demand, supply, 
and logistics is resulting in higher costs
The Company implements strategies such as demand 
forecasting, optimising supply chain operations, and 
improving logistics coordination to reduce costs and 
enhance overall efficiency.
Attrition Risk
Facing 
challenges 
in 
attracting 
and 
retaining talent across the organisation
HCIL promotes a dynamic and inclusive workplace 
with competitive compensation, professional growth 
opportunities, and clear career paths.
Lack of a robust leadership succession plan 
at critical levels
The Company identifies high-potential individuals, 
offering 
targeted 
development 
opportunities, 
and 
promoting a culture of mentorship to ensure smooth 
leadership transitions and continuity.
Internal Control Systems
The Company has established robust internal control systems 
tailored to its size and business scope, including corporate 
policies, management information, and reporting systems 
crucial for overseeing key operational areas. Adhering 
to stringent internal financial controls mandated by the 
Companies Act, 2013, and SEBI Regulations, 2015, is essential 
for ensuring accurate financial reporting, maintaining policy 
compliance, safeguarding assets, preventing fraud, and 
ensuring timely disclosure of both financial and non-financial 
information. These measures contribute to the Company's 
transparency, integrity, and overall operational efficiency.
Independent auditors, authorised by the Audit Committee, 
assess the adequacy and compliance of these controls, 
providing detailed reports with observations and 
recommendations. The Audit Committee oversees these 
controls, approving the annual audit plan covering all business 
operations and functions, and reviewing quarterly audit results 
and recommendations for management actions.
An independent chartered accountant conducted a thorough 
review of these controls and governance processes, confirming 
their adequacy and effectiveness. The Audit Committee 
affirmed that as of March 31, 2025, the internal financial controls 
were operating effectively and met required standards.
Human Resources (HR)
Communication and Engagement
Effective communication remains at the core of our HR 
strategy. Regular town halls and HR forums have helped 
maintain transparency and engagement across all levels of 
the organisation.
HR Listening sessions, or open house sessions, were 
conducted across all sites to gauge employee sentiments 
and gather pointed feedback. Detailed action plans have 
been implemented based on the insights gained from these 
sessions, with progress being closely monitored to ensure 
continuous improvement.
By creating a supportive and growth-focused work 
environment, the Company aims to retain employee confidence 
and inspire them to reach their full potential. Through our 
commitment to innovation, continuous learning, and open 
communication, we are dedicated to fostering a workplace 
where every employee can thrive.
Training and Performance Management
Employee engagement and development are key priorities. 
Our workforce, comprising 485 employees—454 male and 31 
females, as of March 31, 2025, is supported through a variety 
of training programmes on topics of safety, behavioural skills, 
and technical knowledge.
Online sessions covered topics such as Leading Self, 
Communicating with Impact, Planning, Decision Making, 
Time Management and Execution, and Customer Centricity. 
Additionally, group learning opportunities like the Explorer 
Series and the Fireside Chats with senior organisational 
leaders provided employees with valuable insights and 
personal reflections. We also implemented our "Performance 
Management Cycle" in a timely and meaningful manner. This 
helped drive insightful performance conversations, laid the 
foundation for fair remuneration and ensured we retain the 
culture of transparency and meritocracy in the organisation.
Recognition and Rewards
To honour long-standing employees, various Long Service 
Awards were organised at our HQ, Roha, and Cuddalore 
locations, recognising their loyalty and commitment to 
the organisation.
We also launched a formal Reward and Recognition (R&R) 
programme to acknowledge exceptional performance and 
promote the Company's work culture. This programme 
included initiatives such as "On the Spot Appreciation Cards" 
for immediate recognition and special rewards for employees 
who embody the Company's values in action.
Job Evaluation and Grading Roles
Grade harmonisation across all levels and roles was completed 
this year, which includes the evaluation of jobs to build 
a robust grading framework. This has enabled us to also 
benchmark remuneration for the roles with the market, which 
will be a useful insight to develop reward programmes and 
organisational structures and design for the near future.
Cautionary Statement
Certain statements under "Management Discussion & 
Analysis" that describe the Company's objectives, projections, 
estimates, expectations, or predictions may constitute 
"forward-looking" statements within the meaning of applicable 
securities laws and regulations. While these expectations are 
based on reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ 
from those expressed or implied due to various external and 
internal factors beyond the Company's control. The Company 
does not assume any obligation to publicly amend, modify, or 
revise any "forward-looking" statements based on subsequent 
developments, information, or events.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
26
27
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Dear Members,
Your Directors are pleased to present the 68th Annual Report together with the Audited Statement of Accounts for the Year 
ended March 31, 2025.
1.	 Financial performance of the Company
(H in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
Sales
82,505.75
79,070.15
Profit before tax from continuing operations
6,811.07
5,599.99
Exceptional Item
-
Less : Tax expenses (Incl. deferred tax)
1,666.13
1,486.14
Profit after tax from continuing operations
5,144.94
4,113.85
Profit before tax for discontinued operations
-
-
Less : Tax expenses (Incl. deferred tax)
-
-
Profit After Tax for discontinued operations
-
-
Add : Balance brought forward from previous period
33,218.16
29,216.29
Amount available for appropriation
38,363.10
33,330.14
Appropriations
-
-
Dividend (including interim and final)
-
-
Corporate tax on dividend
-
-
Other comprehensive income (OCI)/(Loss)
(54.92)
(111.94)
Reversal of vested option forfeiture
-
-
Transferred to retained earnings
-
-
Balance carried forward to the balance sheet
38,308.18
33,218.16
2.	 Review of operations
	
The Company’s continued operations reported sales for 
the year ended March 31, 2025 of H82,505.75 Lakhs as 
against H79,070.15 Lakhs for the previous year ended 
March 31,2024. The Company recorded an increase 
in sales by 4.3% of the total sales revenue for the year 
under review, 32.1% is contributed by exports. There is no 
change in company affairs or business by the Company 
during the period under review.
3.	 Capacity Expansion
	
During the year, the Company continued its expansion 
plans and has incurred capex spend of ₹1,014.29 Lakhs 
during the year under review.
4.	 Reserves
	
As permitted by the Companies Act, 2013, and Rules 
made thereunder, the Directors do not propose to 
transfer any amount to the General Reserve pertaining 
to the Financial Year 2024-25.
5.	 Dividend
	
The Board of Directors have not recommended any 
Dividend for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
	
Pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 43A of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company has formulated and 
adopted Dividend Distribution Policy which is available on 
the website of the Company at https://admin.heubach.
com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/HCILDividend-
Distribution-Policy-EN.pdf
6.	 Corporate Governance, Management 
Discussions and Analysis Report 
& Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
	
The Company is committed to compliance with standards, 
ensuring checks and balances between the Board and 
Management, as well as a sustainable approach to 
creating value for all stakeholders. As stipulated under 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, Report on Corporate Governance, 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report as well as 
Directors’ Report
Certificate confirming the compliance with the conditions 
of corporate governance and Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report are annexed herewith and forms 
part of this Annual Report.
	
A certificate from a Practicing Company Secretary 
regarding compliance with the conditions of corporate 
governance is given separately in this Annual Report.
7.	
Significant and material orders passed 
by the regulators or courts or tribunals 
impacting the going concern status and 
Company’s operations in future
	
During the year under review, there has been no such 
significant and material orders passed by the regulators 
or courts or tribunals impacting on the going concern 
status and Company’s operations in future.
8.	 Acquisition of the Global Pigment 
Business Operations of Heubach Group
	
On April 22, 2024, the Company received a communication 
from Heubach GmbH, a related party within the Heubach 
Group, informing that it had issued a press release 
announcing the filing of an application for the opening of 
regular insolvency proceedings over its assets with the 
competent insolvency court in Braunschweig, Germany. 
In the same communication, Heubach GmbH also notified 
that it had applied for the Braunschweig insolvency court 
to serve as the group court for the German subgroup 
of the Heubach Group. The court has appointed an 
insolvency administrator to evaluate the feasibility of 
continuing business operations and exploring potential 
restructuring or sale options. Additionally, a preliminary 
insolvency administrator and custodian were appointed 
by the court.
	
Subsequently, on May 3, 2024, the Company received 
another communication from Heubach Group GmbH, 
the holding company of Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 
AG (formerly known as Heubach Holding Switzerland AG 
and Colorants International AG and one of the Company's 
promoter shareholders). The notice stated that Heubach 
Group GmbH, along with certain affiliated companies, had 
also filed for insolvency proceedings over its assets with 
the Braunschweig insolvency court.
	
Sudarshan Europe B.V., Wholly Owned Subsidiary of 
Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited, had entered 
into a definitive agreement on October 11, 2024 for 
the acquisition of Global Pigment Business Operations 
of Heubach Group through a combination of an asset 
and share deal, subject to completion of customary 
conditions and receipt of requisite regulatory approvals. 
The said acquisition was completed on March 3, 2025 
for a preliminary purchase consideration of approx. 
H138,990.0 Iakhs.
	
The acquisition comprises of the acquisition of (a) 
Assets and business operations of (i) Heubach Colorants 
Germany GmbH, (ii) Heubach GmbH (iii) Dr. Hans 
Heubach GmbH and (iv) Heubach Group GmbH and 
participations held by Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 
AG (formerly known as Heubach Holding Switzerland 
AG and Colorants International AG), in downstream 
Group Companies in various countries; and (b) 100% 
shareholding of Sudarshan Lux Holding S.à.r.l. (formerly 
known as Heubach Holding S.à.r.l.), a Luxemburg 
based Heubach Group Company having investments in 
shareholding of companies based in India and USA.
	
Pursuant to the acquisition related agreements, the 
acquisition of assets, business operations and shares 
were interdependent and were executed together to 
acquire the entire business operations of the Heubach 
Group. This acquisition is a strategic move aimed 
at consolidating market expertise and expanding 
global reach of Sudarshan Chemical Group in the 
pigment industry.
	
Consequent to the aforesaid acquisition, Sudarshan 
Europe B.V., Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Sudarshan 
Chemical Industries Limited has acquired entire 
shareholding of Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 AG (formerly 
known as Heubach Holding Switzerland AG and Colorants 
International AG) and Sudarshan Switzerland HLD2 AG 
(formerly known as Heubach Ebito Chemiebeteiligungen 
AG and Ebito Chemiebeteiligungen AG), promoters of the 
Company, resulting in indirectly acquiring 36.56% and 
17.80% shareholding, respectively, in the Company. As 
per the provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, as amended, 
Sudarshan Europe B.V., being an Acquirer, along with 
Persons Acting in Concert (“PACs”) is in a process of 
acquiring upto 6,001,268 Equity Shares of Face Value 
H10/- each, representing 26% of the voting share capital 
of the Company by way of an Open Offer process.
	
There have been no other material changes and 
commitments, affecting the financial position of the 
Company which have occurred between the end of the 
financial year of the Company to which the financial 
statements relate and the date of the report.
9.	
Highlights of Performance of Subsidiary / 
Associate / Joint Venture Companies
	
As of March 31, 2025, the Company do not have any 
subsidiary or joint venture or associate company.
	
Also, there were no instances where companies that 
became or ceased to be subsidiaries, joint venture 
companies or associate companies during the year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
28
29
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
10.	Share Capital
	
The paid-up Equity Share Capital as on March 31, 2025, 
was H23,08,17,980/-. There was no public issue, rights 
issue, bonus issue or preferential issue etc. during the 
year. The Company has not issued shares with differential 
voting rights or sweat equity shares.
11.	Details of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel
	
Your Company is dedicated to follow best practices and 
values through a diverse Board that enhances stakeholder 
value and ensures strong governance. The Company’s 
Board consists of highly skilled and respected individuals 
who provide valuable experience and leadership.
	
All Independent Directors of the Company have given 
declarations that they meet the criteria of independence 
as prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder and Regulation 
16(1)(b) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015”), as amended from time to time.
	
The Independent Directors have also confirmed that they 
have complied with the Code for Independent Directors 
prescribed in Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013. 
There has been no change in the circumstances affecting 
their status of Independent Directors of the Company. 
The Independent Directors have also given declaration of 
compliance with Rules 6(1) and 6(2) of the Companies 
(Appointment and qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended from time to time, with respect to their name 
appearing in the data bank of Independent Directors 
maintained by 'The Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, 
Manesar' ("IICA") and that they are exempt / have cleared 
the Online Proficiency Assessment Test, as applicable.
	
In the opinion of the Board, all Independent Directors 
possess requisite qualifications, experience, expertise 
and hold high standards of integrity required to discharge 
their duties with an objective independent judgment 
and without any external influence. List of key skills, 
expertise and core competencies of the Board, including 
the Independent Directors forms part of the Report on 
Corporate Governance.
	
The Board has also laid down a Code of Conduct for 
Independent Directors pursuant to Section 149(8) 
read with Schedule IV of the Act, which is a guide to 
professional conduct for Independent Directors of the 
Company. All Independent Directors have affirmed 
compliance with this Code for the Financial Year 2024-
25.
Changes in Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel
I.	
Changes in Directors
	
During the year under review:
	
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors 
at its meeting held on March 27, 2024 approved the 
appointment of Mrs. Diana Dhote (DIN: 10558367) as an 
Additional Director in the capacity of a Non-Executive 
and Independent Director of the Company for a term of 
five consecutive years commencing from April 01, 2024. 
Subsequently, the shareholders accorded its approval 
for appointment of Mrs. Diana Dhote as a Non-Executive 
and Independent Director of the Company through Postal 
Ballot on June 14, 2024.
	
Mr. Bharath Sesha (DIN 01983066), Managing Director of 
the Company, submitted his resignation vide letter dated 
June 28, 2024, to pursue other opportunities outside 
the Organization. The Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board formally accepted his 
resignation during its meeting held on June 28, 2024 
and Mr. Bharath Sesha was relieved from his service as a 
Managing Director of the Company with effect from the 
close of business hours on August 31, 2024. The Board 
of Directors and Management placed on record its sincere 
appreciation for the contribution made by Mr. Sesha 
towards growth of the Company under his leadership.
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder and the 
Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. Jugal Sahu 
(DIN: 02629782), Executive Director and Chief Financial 
Officer, was liable to retire by rotation, and being eligible, 
had offered himself for re-appointment at the 67th Annual 
General Meeting. Based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Board 
of Directors, approval of Shareholders was accorded at 
the 67th Annual General Meeting for re-appointment of 
Mr. Jugal Sahu as an Executive Director, liable to retire 
by rotation.
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on November 
14, 2024, appointed Mr. Sambit Roy (DIN: 08291664) 
as an Additional and Managing Director, based on the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee effective November 25, 2024 subject to the 
approval of shareholders. Subsequently, approval of 
shareholders was accorded for appointment of Mr. Sambit 
Roy as the Managing Director of the Company through 
Postal Ballot on January 22, 2025.
	
Consequent to the closure of Financial Year 2024-
25, based on the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its 
meeting held on April 14, 2025, approved:
	
1.	
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Rathi (DIN: 00018628) 
as an Additional Non- Executive Director of the 
Company, effective April 14, 2025, subject to 
approval of Shareholders;
	
2.	
Appointment of Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay (DIN: 
01806781) as an Additional Independent Director 
of the Company, for the term of 5 years, effective 
April 14, 2025, to April 13, 2030, subject to approval 
of Shareholders;
	
3.	
Appointment of Mr. Naresh Raisinghani (DIN: 
00568298) as an Additional Independent Director 
of the Company, for the term of 5 years effective 
April 14, 2025, to April 13, 2030, subject to approval 
of Shareholders;
	
4.	
Appointment of Mrs. Anu Wakhlu (DIN: 00122052) as 
an Additional Independent Director of the Company, 
for the term of 5 years effective April 14, 2025, to 
April 13, 2030, subject to approval of Shareholders.
	
Further, based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors 
also appointed Mr. Mandar Velankar (DIN: 11069055) as 
an Additional Non-Executive Director of the Company, 
effective May 2, 2025 by way of circular resolution dated 
May 2, 2025, subject to approval of Shareholders.
	
Approval of Shareholders was accorded for appointment 
of Mr. Rajesh Rathi as a Non-Executive and Non-
Independent Director, Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay as 
a Non-Executive and Independent Director, Mr. Naresh 
Raisinghani as a Non-Executive and Independent Director, 
Mrs. Anu Wakhlu as a Non-Executive and Independent 
Director and Mr. Mandar Velankar as a Non-Executive and 
Non-Independent Director through Postal Ballot on July 
6, 2025.
	
Mr. Ravi Kapoor (DIN: 01761752), Chairman and Non-
Executive Director of the Company, submitted his 
resignation vide letter dated July 16, 2025, due to 
his preoccupation with effect from close of business 
hours on July 16, 2025. The Board of Directors and 
Management placed on record their deep appreciation 
for the contributions made by Mr. Ravi Kapoor during his 
association with the Company.
	
Mr. Ravi Kapoor was succeeded by Mr. Rajesh Rathi (DIN: 
00018628) who was appointed as a Chairman of the 
Board of the Company with effect from July 16, 2025, in 
addition to his current role as a Non-Executive Director.
	
Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay (DIN: 01806781), 
Independent Director tendered his resignation with effect 
from close of business hours on August 11, 2025 due to 
possibility of Mr. Mukhopadhyay getting into increased 
level of engagement with one of the group Companies 
of Sudarshan Chemical Group, which might potentially 
affect his independence to continue as an Independent 
Director of the company. This was not envisaged earlier 
when Mr. Mukhopadhyay joined the Board of the Company. 
Mr. Mukhopadhyay confirmed that there were no other 
reasons, material or otherwise, for his resignation other 
than those mentioned above.
	
Mr. Jugal Sahu (DIN: 02629782), tendered his resignation 
from the position of Executive Director of the Company 
with effect from close of business hours on August 11, 
2025. However, Mr. Sahu shall continue to serve as a Chief 
Financial Officer, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company.
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder 
and as per Articles of Association of the Company and 
based on the recommendations of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and Board, Mr. Rajesh Rathi 
(DIN: 00018628), Chairman and Non-Executive Director 
of the Company retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment. A resolution seeking 
Shareholders' approval for his re-appointment forms part 
of Notice of the 68th Annual General Meeting.
	
During the year under review, the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company had no material pecuniary 
relationship or transactions with the Company, other than 
sitting fees, commission, if any and reimbursement of 
expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending 
meetings of the Board / Committee of the Company, if 
any. The Board has made the recommendation for the 
above appointment(s) / re-appointment(s) of Directors 
based on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee ("NRC") and the Committee has 
made its recommendation after ensuring that none of the 
Directors seeking appointment(s) / re-appointment(s) 
is debarred from holding the position of a Director by 
virtue of any Order from SEBI, The Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs ("MCA") or any other Regulatory Authority. The 
Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors 
appointed / re-appointed / proposed to be appointed 
are of integrity and possess the requisite expertise and 
experience (including the proficiency). Details of the 
Directors seeking appointment(s) / re-appointment(s) 
including profile of such Directors, are given in the 
Notice convening the 68th Annual General Meeting of 
the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
30
31
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
II.	
Key Managerial Personnel
	
Ms. Amee Joshi, Company Secretary and Nodal Officer 
of the Company, had submitted her resignation vide 
letter dated June 24, 2024, to pursue an alternate career 
opportunity outside the Organization. Ms. Amee Joshi 
was relieved from her duties with effect from the close 
of business hours on June 30, 2024.
	
Mr. Bharath Sesha (DIN 01983066), Managing Director of 
the Company, submitted his resignation vide letter dated 
June 28, 2024, to pursue other opportunities outside 
the Organization. The Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board formally accepted his 
resignation during its meeting held on June 28, 2024 
and Mr. Bharath Sesha was relieved from his service as a 
Managing Director of the Company with effect from the 
close of business hours on August 31, 2024. The Board 
of Directors and Management placed on record its sincere 
appreciation for the contribution made by Mr. Sesha 
towards growth of the Company under his leadership.
	
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors 
at its Meeting held on September 20, 2024, inter alia 
had considered and approved the appointment of 
Ms. Ashwini Natekar as an Interim Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer of the Company with effect from 
September 20, 2024.
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on November 
14, 2024, appointed Mr. Sambit Roy (DIN: 08291664) 
as an Additional and Managing Director, based on the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee effective November 25, 2024 subject to the 
approval of shareholders. Subsequently, approval of 
shareholders was accorded for appointment of Mr. Sambit 
Roy as the Managing Director of the Company through 
Postal Ballot on January 22, 2025.
	
Ms. Ashwini Natekar resigned from the position of Interim 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer vide letter 
dated April 17, 2025 effective close of business hours on 
July 16, 2025, to pursue an alternate career opportunity 
outside the Organization. Ms. Ashwini Natekar was 
relieved from her duties with effect from the close of 
business hours on July 16, 2025.
	
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its 
Meeting held on July 16, 2025, inter alia considered 
and approved the appointment of Mr. Adwait Joshi as 
a Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the 
Company with effect from August 01, 2025.
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 203 of 
the Companies Act, 2013, and Rules made thereunder, 
following were the Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company for the year ended March 31, 2025:
	
1.	
Mr. Sambit Roy, Managing Director (appointed 
effective November 25, 2024)
	
2.	
Mr. Jugal Sahu, Chief Financial Officer
	
3.	
Ms. Amee Joshi, Company Secretary (ceased 
effective June 30, 2024)
	
3.	
Ms. Ashwini Natekar, Interim Company Secretary 
(ceased effective July 16, 2025)
	
There were no changes other than those mentioned 
above in the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
during the year.
12.	Audit Committee
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 177 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, and Rules made thereunder and 
Regulation 18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the 
Company has in place an Audit Committee.
	
The details on the composition, meeting, attendance, 
etc. of the Audit Committee are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Section of the Annual Report. The Board 
has accepted all the recommendations of the Audit 
Committee during the Financial year under review.
	
Details of the current committee members are also 
available on website of the Company at https://heubach.
com/heubach-india/investor-relations-india-overview/
committee-information/
13.	Number of meetings of the Board
	
During the year under review, the Board of Directors met 
15 (Fifteen) times on April 3, 2024, April 23, 2024, May 1, 
2024, May 8, 2024, May 29, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 24, 
2024, August 31, 2024, September 20, 2024, October 16, 
2024, November 14, 2024, November 29, 2024, January 
3, 2025, January 29, 2025, March 29, 2025.
	
The maximum interval between any two meetings did not 
exceed 120 days as prescribed in the Companies Act, 
2013 and Rules made thereunder.
14.	Conservation of energy, technology 
absorption, foreign exchange earnings 
and outgo
	
As required under section 134(3)(m) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, the relevant information and 
data for the year ended March 31, 2025, are annexed to 
this report as ‘Annexure A’.
15.	Corporate Social Responsibility
	
In terms of the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended 
from time to time, the Board of Directors of your Company 
has constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR’) 
Committee which constitutes of following members:
Name
Category
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Chairperson
Mr. Kewal Handa
Member
Mr. Sambit Roy
(w.e.f. November 25, 2024)
Member
Ms. Anu Wakhlu
(w.e.f. August 11, 2025)
Member
	
Your Company also has a CSR policy in place and the 
same is available on the website of the Company at 
www.heubach.com A detailed report as per Rule 8 of 
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, is annexed as ‘Annexure B’, forming part of 
this report.
16.	Nomination and Remuneration Policy
	
The Board has, based on the recommendation of 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, framed a 
policy on Nomination and Remuneration of its Directors 
and Key Managerial Personnel, which is available on the 
website of the Company at www.heubach.com
17.	 Board Evaluation and Familiarization 
programme
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Board has carried 
out the annual evaluation of its own performance and 
Board Committees by seeking the input of Directors on 
various aspects of the Board/Committee Governance. 
The Board has reviewed the performance of the individual 
Directors and the Chairperson. The manner in which the 
evaluation has been carried out is stated in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
	
The details of programme for familiarization of the 
Independent Directors of your Company are available on 
the Company’s website at www.heubach.com
18.	Particulars of Employees
	
As per provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, disclosure pertaining to the particulars of 
employees who are in receipt of remuneration is annexed 
as ‘Annexure C’.
	
The statement of particulars of employees pursuant 
to Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
forms part of this Annual Report. However, pursuant to 
proviso to Section 136 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the report and accounts are being sent to members 
excluding this statement of particulars of employees. Any 
member interested in obtaining a copy of this statement, 
may write to Company Secretary at investor.relations_
india@heubach.com
19.	 Disclosure pursuant to Section 197(14) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, and Rules 
made thereunder
	
The Managing Director of the Company is not in receipt of 
any remuneration and / or commission from any Holding 
/ Subsidiary Company, as the case may be.
20.	Directors’ Responsibility Statement
	
Pursuant to the requirement under Section 134(3)(c) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 with respect to Directors’ 
Responsibility Statement, it is hereby confirmed that:
	
i.	
In the preparation of the annual accounts for the year 
ended March 31, 2025, the applicable accounting 
standards have been followed along with proper 
explanation relating to material departures;
	
ii.	
The Directors have selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company as of March 31, 2025 and 
of the profit and loss of the Company for that period;
	
iii.	
The Directors have taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting 
fraud and other irregularities;
	
iv.	
The Directors have prepared the annual accounts 
on a going concern basis;
	
v.	
The Directors have laid down Internal Financial 
Controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
	
vi.	
The Directors have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems were adequate and 
operating effectively.
21.	Statutory Auditor & Audit Report
	
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held 
on June 17, 2020 approved appointment of M/s. MSKA 
& Associates, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 105047W), as Statutory Auditors of the Company 
in the casual vacancy caused by the resignation of 
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountant LLP, for 
a term of 5 (Five) years i.e. till the conclusion of 68th 
Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
32
33
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 139, 142 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, and Rules made thereunder and 
based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
the Board of Directors at its meeting held on July 16, 
2025, had approved re-appointment of M/s. MSKA & 
Associates, (Firm Registration No.: 105047W), Chartered 
Accountants, as Statutory Auditors of the Company for 
a term of 5 (Five) years i.e. from the conclusion of 68th 
Annual General Meeting up to the conclusion of the 73rd 
Annual General Meeting to be held in the year 2030, 
subject to approval of Shareholders.
	
Pursuant to Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rules made thereunder, M/s. MSKA & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants, have confirmed that they 
are eligible to be re-appointed as Statutory Auditors. 
A resolution seeking approval of shareholders for re-
appointment of M/s. MSKA & Associates as Statutory 
Auditors forms part of the Notice convening 68th 
Annual General Meeting. The notes on the Audited 
Financial Statements referred to in the Auditor’s Report 
are self-explanatory and hence do not call for any 
further comments.
	
The Auditor's Report contains the following Qualification 
for the Financial Year 2024-25: 
	
We draw your attention to the following paragraph 
included in the audit report of the Company dated July 
16, 2025, and reproduced as under:
	
“We draw attention to Note 16 which describes that the 
Board of Directors is assessing the effect on the financial 
results with respect to transfer of certain items of 
property, plant and equipment without due approval from 
the Board of Directors. Pending Management review and 
reconciliation, and in absence of an appropriate valuation 
of the aforesaid items, we are unable to comment on the 
consequential effects, if any, on the financial results.
	
The reply by the Management of the Company to the 
Statutory Auditors’ qualifications is reproduced below, the 
contents of which are self-explanatory -
	
The management is assessing the appropriate course 
of action to evaluate the basis of valuation of certain 
items of property, plant and equipment. The Board of 
directors are unable to quantify the impact of aforesaid 
qualification on the financial statements of the Company 
as the management is evaluating various legal options 
to determine the appropriate course of action. As on the 
date of this report, the final resolution and its effects 
are pending.
22.	Cost Audit
	
The Board of Directors, in pursuance of order under 
Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 had appointed 
M/s. Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration No. 00294), as Cost Auditors of the 
Company to carry out the audit of the cost accounts of 
the Company for the Financial year 2025-26.
	
As required under the Companies Act, 2013, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is required to be 
ratified by the Shareholders of the Company. Accordingly, 
resolution seeking Shareholders’ approval for ratification 
of the remuneration to be paid to Cost Auditor is included 
in the Notice convening the 68th Annual General Meeting.
	
Further, the Board hereby confirms that the maintenance 
of cost records specified by the Central Government as 
per Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, and 
Rules made thereunder, is required and accordingly, such 
accounts / records have been made and maintained.
	
The Cost Auditors' Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 
did not contain any qualifications, reservations, adverse 
remarks or disclaimers.
23.	Secretarial Audit Report
	
Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, and Rule 9 of Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, the Board had appointed M/s J. R. Ahuja & Co., 
Company Secretary, as Secretarial Auditor to carry out 
the Secretarial Audit for the Financial year 2024-25.
	
The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed herewith as 
‘Annexure D’. The Secretarial Auditor Report does not 
contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark 
and is self–explanatory and thus does not require any 
further comments.
	
The Company is compliant with the Secretarial Standard 
on Meetings of the Board of Directors ("SS-1") and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings ("SS-2"), 
issued by 'The Institute of Company Secretaries of India' 
(“ICSI”).
	
In terms of amended Regulation 24A of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015, the Board at its meeting held on July 
16, 2025,  has approved the appointment of M/s. J. B. 
Bhave & Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, a peer 
reviewed firm (Peer Review Certificate No. 1238/2021 
and UIN S1999MH025400) as the Secretarial Auditor 
of the Company for a period of five consecutive years 
commencing from FY2025-26 till FY2029-30, subject to 
approval of shareholders of the Company at the ensuing 
68th Annual General Meeting. Detailed explanatory 
statement setting out the terms of appointment forms 
part of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
24.	Internal Financial Controls and their 
Adequacy
	
The details in respect of Internal Financial Controls 
and their adequacy are included in the Management 
Discussion & Analysis Report, which forms part of 
this Report.
25.	Internal Auditors
	
M/s. Mahajan & Aibara, Chartered Accountants, were 
appointed as Internal Auditors of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25. As prescribed under Section 138 
of the Companies Act, 2013, and Rules made thereunder, 
M/s. Mahajan & Aibara, Chartered Accountants carried 
out the Internal Audit of the Company for the Financial 
year 2024-25. The Internal Audit was completed as per 
the scope defined by the Audit Committee from time 
to time.
26.	Extract of Annual Return
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 92(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Return in Form MGT-7 
as on March 31, 2025, is available on Company’s website 
at www.heubach.com
27.	 Risk management policy
	
The Company has a robust Risk Management Policy 
to identify, evaluate business risks and opportunities. 
This framework seeks to create transparency, 
minimize adverse impact on the business objectives 
and enhance the Company’s competitive advantage. 
Many risks identified by the business and functions are 
systematically addressed through mitigating actions 
on a continuing basis. The Company has framed a Risk 
Management Policy to manage the risks involved in all 
activities of the Company, to maximize opportunities and 
minimize adversities.
	
In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Board of Directors of the Company has 
constituted a Risk Management Committee. Particulars 
of the committee are provided in the Report on Corporate 
Governance forming part of this Annual Report.
28.	Related Party Transactions
	
In line with the requirements of Companies Act, 2013 and 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company has framed a Policy on 
Material Related Party Transactions which is available on 
Company’s website at www.heubach.com
	
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year 
under review were in ordinary course of business and 
on arm’s length basis. All Related Party Transactions 
were placed before the Audit Committee for review and 
approval. Prior omnibus approvals are granted by Audit 
Committee for Related Party Transactions which are 
of repetitive nature, entered in the ordinary course of 
business and are on arm’s length basis.
	
The disclosure of Related Party Transactions as required 
under Section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 
2014 in the Form AOC-2 is annexed as ‘Annexure E’ to 
this report.
29.	Particulars of loans, guarantees or 
investments
	
The details of loans, guarantees and investments covered 
under the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, are given in the notes forming part of 
Financial Statements.
30.	Public Deposits
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
accepted any deposit from the public / members 
pursuant to Section 73 and Section 76 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Acceptance of 
Deposits) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, 
and hence as on March 31, 2025 there are no deposits 
outstanding, except as required statutorily and which 
have been unclaimed at the end of the year under review.
31.	Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle Blower Policy
	
The Company believes in upholding professional integrity 
and ethical behavior in the conduct of its business. To 
uphold and promote these standards, the Company 
has adopted Whistle Blower Policy for its Directors and 
Employees to report genuine concerns about unethical 
behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the 
Code of Conduct without fear of reprisal.
	
During the year under review, two complaints were 
received and both these complaints were resolved.
	
The vigil mechanism / whistle blower policy is available 
on the Company's website at www.heubach.com
32.	Prevention of Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace
	
The Company has in place an Anti-Sexual Harassment 
Policy in line with the requirements of The Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
	
The Company has the Policy on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace which is available on the 
website of the Company at www.heubach.com
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
34
35
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
Further, below is the status of complaints received 
under 'The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013:
Sr. 
No. Particulars
No. of 
Complaints
1.
Number of Sexual Harassment 
Complaints received during FY 2024-
25
Nil
2.
Number of Sexual Harassment 
Complaints disposed off during FY 
2024-25
Nil
3.
Number of Sexual Harassment 
Complaints pending beyond 90 days
Nil
33.	Constitution of Internal Complaints 
Committee
	
The Company has Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) 
in place and complied with all the requirements of 
provisions of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
34.	Details in respect of frauds reported 
by auditors under Sub-Section (12) of 
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
No matter of actual or alleged fraud has been reported 
by the auditors under Sub-Section (12) of Section 143 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
35.	Details of application made or any 
proceeding pending under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, during the 
year along with their status as at the end 
of the Financial Year: Nil, hence not applicable.
36.	Details of difference between amount of 
the valuation done at the time of one-time 
settlement and the valuation done while 
taking loan from the Banks or Financial 
Institutions along with the reasons thereof: 
Nil, hence not applicable.
37.	 No. of employees as on the closure of the 
Financial Year:
Sr. 
No. Particulars
No. of 
employees
1.
Male
454
2.
Female
31
3.
Transgender
Nil
Total
485
Annexure A
Information under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 and forming part of the Directors’ Report
A.	 Conservation of Energy
(i)	 Steps taken or impact on conservation of 
energy:
	y
Water consumptions optimized by:
	
−Closely monitoring of daily water consumption 
report.
	
−Closely monitoring and controlling of each individual 
filter press wash water parameter and in- wash 
water time and quantity.
	
−Recycling of alkaline wash water collected from filter 
press, in acidic filter press washing purpose.
	
−Continuous usage of WWTP treated wastewater for 
various applications such as - plant floor washing, 
scrubber system, drum washings, lime solution 
preparation etc. and maximize its use by finding 
more scope of its use.
	
−Monitoring and controlling cooling tower loss.
	
−Closing loops of water used for water ring vacuum 
pumps to avoid wastage of water.
	
−Implementing sensor-based water tap in the 
washroom area.
	
−Conducting campaign to close water leakages 
across the site under TPM.
	
−Using treated water generated from sewage water 
treatment plant towards use in the cooling tower and 
gardening purposes.
	y
Steam consumption optimized by:
	
−Weekly monitoring of steam network, including the 
initiation of replacing defective steam traps using a 
leak tag system, as well as the regular monitoring 
and repairing of steam traps.
	
−Usage of high-pressure filtrations.
	
−Setting revised target to reduce steam consumption 
per ton of product.
	
−Conducting regular steam and air audits.
	
−Conducing campaign under TPM to close steam and 
air leakages across sites.
	
−Implementing steam trap servicing of band dryer 
and drying chambers by expert external agency.
	
−Daily monitoring of steam line network for any 
leakages.
	
−Utilities consumptions optimized by increasing 
various batch sizes.
	
−Consumption of Electrical units reduced per ton of 
production.
	y
Electricity 
consumption 
optimized 
by 
implementing the following:
	
−Reduction of frequency with VFD for higher HP 
motor to get desired result without compromising 
quality and quantity.
	
−Replaced conventional lights by energy efficient LED 
lights across pigment plants, plant offices, admin 
building offices etc.
	
−Replacement of old AC’s by latest energy efficient 
AC’s and usage at optimized temperatures and set 
on & off system based on timer.
	
−“Compressed Air audit” Conducted on weekly basis.
	
−Replacing old motors by energy efficient motors.
	
−Installed permanent magnet VSD (PM VSD) air 
compressor.
	
−VFD based process air compressor to save electricity 
during load variation.
	
−Use of gravity flow for effluent handling instead of 
pumping.
	
−Disposal of bi-product instead of treating at site has 
reduced energy consumption.
	
−Installation of VFD.
	
−Installed energy efficient pump for effluent transfer.
	
−Implemented conductivity-based auto-wash 
system for filter press for conservation of water.
	
−Installed PP membrane filter plates to increase cake 
dryness and reduce further energy for drying the 
product.
	
−7.5 MWp Offsite Solar Power Plant is installed for 
Roha site which has resulted in achieving annual 
saving of ₹3.62 Crores during the year under review.
	
−Cuddalore site is on renewable electricity source of 
Wind + Solar, which has resulted in achieving savings 
of ₹111.14 Lakhs during the year under review.
	
−Existing Spin Flash Dryers at Cuddalore site have 
been converted on LPG fuel as a green energy 
initiative which has successfully reduced CO2 
emission.
	
−Electricity consumption is optimized by reducing the 
Batch Cycle Time at Nagda plant.
38.	Compliance of provisions of the Maternity 
Benefit Act, 1961:
	
The company is in compliance with the applicable 
provisions of Maternity Benefit Act, 1961.
39.	 Recognition:
	
Details of the awards received during the year under 
review are disclosed separately in this Annual Report.
40.	Other Disclosures
	
Change in nature of business
	
During the year, there has been no change in the nature 
of the business of the company.
	
Details of deposits which are not in compliance with 
the Chapter V of the Act: Nil
41.	Acknowledgement
	
The Board of Directors wishes to place on record its 
sincere appreciation for the support received from 
its stakeholders including shareholders, bankers, 
distributors, suppliers and business associates. The 
Directors recognize and appreciate the sincere and hard 
work, loyalty, dedicated efforts and contribution of all 
the employees that ensured sustained performance in a 
challenging business environment.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Rajesh Rathi
Sambit Roy
Chairman
Managing Director
DIN (00018628)
DIN (08291664)
Place: Navi-Mumbai,
Date: August 11, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
36
37
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	y
Improved productivity resulting in energy saving 
by implementing following:
	
−Reduction in drying time at tray dryers and RVDs by 
optimizing drying temperature.
	
−Water batching system modification for consistent 
water supply which has reduced the batch cycle 
time.
	
−Additional chlorine tonner operation implemented 
which eliminated cylinder changeover time.
	
−A4R ACM 30 – Introduced 5 Micron Cartridge Filter 
for better Milling Operation.
	
−Direct Fired HAG was introduced for one SFD to 
minimize LPG consumption.
	
−Process operation was optimized in chloranil plant 
to reduce the batch cycle time.
	
−MCB Solvent consumption reduced by 20 % in 
Intermediate Plant.
	
−INT Conversion Cost reduced by 10%.
	
−INT Plant Hypo concentration increased to 8.2% 
from 6%.
	
−Reduced the milling pases without affecting quality 
resulting electricity saving at Nagda plat.
(ii)	Steps taken by the Company for utilizing 
alternate sources of energy:
	y
Usage of higher calorific value LPG instead of Bio Diesel 
for hot air generator which resulted in environment 
benefit and cost savings.
	y
Usage of LSHS oil as fuel instead of furnace oil.
	y
Usage of briquette as green fuel for steam generation.
	y
 Renewable solar power supply at the Roha site.
	y
 Renewable hybrid (solar and wind) power supply at 
the Cuddalore site.
	y
In preparation plant air operated pumps for bead mills 
were replaced with electrically operated pumps which 
resulted in air consumption optimization.
(iii)	Capital investment in energy conservation 
equipment: ₹195 Lakhs.
B.	 Technology Absorption
(i)	 The efforts made towards technology 
absorption:
	y
Polyelectrolyte was used at WWTP water at primary 
treatment and secondary treatment side to get 
maximum solid content on disposal of solid waste.
	y
Use of bag compactor machine to pack the waste bags 
to minimize the space occupation.
	y
Instrument control for consistent quantity of water 
to the reactor based on chlorine consumption to 
complete the reaction in time with quality.
	y
Auto changeover of LPG header manifold without 
manual intervention and also triggering of SMS 
to concerned person on leakage of LPG and 
Manifold empty.
	y
Installed HDPE drum shredding machine at Roha for 
enabling plastic recycle.
(ii)	The 
benefits 
derived 
like 
product 
improvement, 
cost 
reduction, 
product 
development or import substitution:
	y
Batch cycle and quality was improved by maintaining 
the chlorine gas pressure consistent by introducing 
control valve-based pressure transmitter.
	y
Use of double blow leg in the reactor for more 
absorption of chlorine gas to reduce the cycle time.
	y
Recovery and reuse of Methanol and MTT from crude 
generated during process.
	y
25 m3 coupling vessels replaced with 60m3 
coupling vessels.
	y
Increased the number of plates in filter press to 
accommodate additional feed.
	y
Provided a separate header and feed lines facility to 
Filter Press so primary and secondary sludge could be 
discarded smoothly which may hamper operation of 
WWTP and final quality of treated effluent.
	y
Usage of Poly Aluminium Chloride (PAC) which is by-
product of Mahad unit and started using a coagulant 
in place of Alum which will result in significant WWTP 
treatment cost.
	y
By Reducing the milling passes without affecting 
quality resulting electricity saving at Nagda plant.
(iii)	In case of imported technology (imported 
during the last three years reckoned from 
the beginning of the financial year): Nil
(iv)	The expenditure incurred on Research and 
Development: Nil
C.	 Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
	
The particulars of foreign exchange earned and used 
during the year is given below:
	
The Foreign Exchange earned ₹26,238.80 lakhs 
(previous period ₹25,003.10 lakhs)
	
Foreign exchange used ₹11,273.09 lakhs (previous 
period ₹12,226.64 lakhs 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Rajesh Rathi 	
Sambit Roy
Chairman	
 Managing Director
DIN (00018628) 	
DIN (08291664)
Place : Navi-Mumbai,
Date: August 11, 2025
Annexure B
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) INITIATIVES
(Particulars required as per the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time)
1.	 Overview of Corporate Social 
Responsibility
a.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
The CSR Policy of the Company has been framed in 
accordance with Section 135 of Companies Act 2013 
read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules 2014 as amended from time to time The 
Policy is applicable to all our sites and offices in India 
and the emphasis is towards allocation of resources and 
employee engagement to the marginalized groups in 
the society.
	
The Company’s CSR Vision is based on tenets of trust, 
fairness, and care. Following are the keystones to 
Company’s CSR Philosophy.
	y
To actively initiate projects and/ or participate in 
projects that together make us the local lighthouse of 
the region which significantly improves the lives of the 
people where we operate and are present.
	y
To provide vocational training and impart skilling to 
enhance the livelihood and skills of people who are 
primarily from the unorganized sector.
	y
Commitment in creating social and economic value 
as a corporate citizen and encourage employees to 
participate and contribute to various CSR programmes.
	y
To manage our operations using principles of 
sustainable development to minimize resource 
footprint and protect health and safety of all 
the stakeholders.
	
The Company believes in responsible growth and thus 
undertakes CSR initiatives that will be effective to the 
communities and the environment in which we operate.
b.	
Activities
	
Areas around which the Company focuses its CSR 
initiatives and channelizes the resources on a sustained 
basis is as follows:
	y
Health and Hygiene: Primary health care support 
through infrastructure support, building awareness 
about hygiene, sanitation, clean habits etc.
	y
Disaster Management: Relief, rehabilitation and 
reconstruction activities, mitigating the effects of 
crisis created by natural disasters, pandemic or 
likewise and partnering with government authorities 
and local partners to support the communities.
	y
Enhancing Vocational Skills: Specialized vocational 
training and skill-based training to women enabling 
them to secure better employment opportunities.
	y
Education: Enabling initiatives that support in providing 
education to the children in the communities that we 
operate in. The interventions include infrastructure building, 
support with tutoring for children etc.
	
The CSR areas are monitored and reviewed by the 
Management, CSR committee and the Board of Directors, 
from time to time. All CSR initiatives/ projects/ programs/ 
activities fall under the purview of Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDG).
c.	
Governance
	
We have a dynamic structure in place for effective 
implementation of CSR projects and activities. The 
implementation of all activities is taken under guidance 
of the Board of Directors. The Board has empowered the 
CSR Committee to closely monitor and report its progress. 
The Company adopts a comprehensive approach while 
initiating, implementing, monitoring, and utilizing the CSR 
budgets. The commitment is ensured at the beginning 
of the year and the budgets are allocated as per the long 
term and short-term projects of each site, under the 
supervision of CSR Committee and the Board.
	
The Company undertakes the CSR either on its own 
or jointly along with any other companies, and/ or in 
collaboration with its stakeholder which includes the 
NGOs, local communities, and district authorities.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee
	
The composition of the CSR Committee is in compliance with the Act and the CSR Rules. The Composition of the Committee 
and attendance of the Members at meetings held during the year is as below:
Sr. 
No. Name of Member
Position held
Number of Meetings of CSR 
Committee
Held
Attended
1.
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Chairperson
1
1
2.
Mr. Bharath Sesha (upto August 31, 2024)
Member
1
1
3.
Mr. Kewal Handa
Member
1
1
4.
Mr. Sambit Roy (with effect from November 25, 2024)
Member
NA
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
38
39
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
3.	 Web-links where CSR related information 
of the Company is available:
	
a)	
Composition of the CSR Committee: https://www.
heubach.com/heubach-india/investor-relations-
india-overview/committee-information/
	
b)	
CSR Policy: https://admin.heubach.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/04/CSR-Policy.pdf
	
c)	
CSR projects (approved by the Board of Directors): 
ht tps://admin.heubach.com/wp-content /
uploads/2025/08/CSR-Annual-action-plan-24-25.
pdf
4.	
Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in 
pursuance of Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014: 
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance 
of Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount 
required for set off for the Financial year: Not Applicable
6.	
Average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): 
₹51,04,74,000/-
7.	
Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of the amount as in item 
6 above): ₹1,02,09,480/-
8.	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or 
activities of the previous financial years: Nil
9.	
Amount required to be set off for the Financial Year: Nil
10.	 Total CSR obligation for the Financial Year (7+8-9): 
₹1,02,09,480/-
11.	CSR expenditure
(a)	CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial year:
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial 
Year. (in ₹)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified  
under Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 
135(5)
Amount.
Date of transfer Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
₹1,02,21,826/-
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the Financial year: Nil
(c)	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the Financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities 
in Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the 
project
Amount 
spent for the 
project (in ₹)
Mode of 
implementation 
(Direct / 
Indirect)
Mode of 
implementation 
Direct - Through 
implementing agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
1
Empowering Women
1.	
Sewing Machines for needy women 
at Vicinity Gram panchayat
2.	
Domestic Flour Mills for needy 
women Kolad.
3.	
Bicycles for remote area girl 
students at Dhatav High School
4.	
Construction of Classroom at M 
B More Arts Science Commerce 
Women College
(i)
Yes
Maharashtra
Roha
11,07,628/-
Direct
None
NA
2
Health & Hygiene
1.	
Gymnasium Equipment for youth at 
Killa Village
2.	
Water Purifier System at R Z P 
School Kolad
3.	
Washroom for Girls at New English 
School Kokban
4.	
Washroom for Girls at R Z P School 
Aare Khurd
5.	
Constructing shed at Dhatav Police 
Station Premises
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Roha
5,84,004/-
Direct
None
NA
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities 
in Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the 
project
Amount 
spent for the 
project (in ₹)
Mode of 
implementation 
(Direct / 
Indirect)
Mode of 
implementation 
Direct - Through 
implementing agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
3
Promoting Education
•	
Construction of Washroom for 
Ladies at New English School 
Chanera
•	
Construction of Science Lab for 
students at R M Wagle Medium 
School- Dhamansai
•	
Construction of Classroomat M B 
Patil English School- Varse
•	
Education Infrastructure 
Development at J M Rathi English 
School - Roth
(iii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Roha
20,85,792/-
Direct
None
NA
4
Environment
•	
Branding of Waste Collection 
Vehicle
(i)
Yes
Maharashtra
Roha
1,207/-
Direct
None
NA
5
Empowering Women
•	
Tailoring project in Kudikadu 
location
(i)
Yes
Tamil Nadu Cuddalore
1,18,016/-
Direct
None
NA
6
Health & Hygiene
•	
Providing medical equipment 
Cuddalore Govt General Hospital.
•	
Blood Donation and Health 
promotion camp organized in 
Cuddalore Govt Hospital.
•	
Provide ECG machine(1no) and 
inverter (1no)for Thondamanatham 
Govt primary health centre.
•	
R.O. Plant for Patient and other 
equipment at Govt. Hospital- 
Kannarapettai.
•	
Providing medical equipment and 
RO drinking water to Cuddalore 
Govt General Hospital.
•	
Arranging for the medical 
camp(Eye)-Surrounding the 
villages from Aravind Eye hospital 
-Pondicherry Sothikuppam Village.
(iii)
Yes
Tamil Nadu Cuddalore
13,03,134/-
Direct
None
NA
6
Health & Hygiene
•	
Providing medical equipment 
Cuddalore Govt General Hospital.
•	
Blood Donation and Health 
promotion camp organized in 
Cuddalore Govt Hospital.
•	
Provide ECG machine(1no) and 
inverter (1no)for Thondamanatham 
Govt primary health centre.
•	
R.O. Plant for Patient and other 
equipment at Govt. Hospital- 
Kannarapettai.
•	
Providing medical equipment and 
RO drinking water to Cuddalore 
Govt General Hospital.
•	
Arranging for the medical 
camp(Eye)-Surrounding the 
villages from Aravind Eye hospital 
-Pondicherry Sothikuppam Village.
(iii)
Yes
Tamil Nadu Cuddalore
13,03,134/-
Direct
None
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
40
41
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities 
in Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the 
project
Amount 
spent for the 
project (in ₹)
Mode of 
implementation 
(Direct / 
Indirect)
Mode of 
implementation 
Direct - Through 
implementing agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
7
Promoting Education
•	
Sothikuppam Evening Learning 
centre running project and 
distributing notebooks to students.
•	
Installing CCTV on the playground 
in Nellikuppam Govt Girls High 
School.
•	
Painting - to Kudikadu Middle 
School infrastructure
•	
Provide school bench, computer 
and Cupboards to Sothikuppam 
Govt High School.
•	
Govt school Classroom - 
Infrastructure / Construction 
of class room - As per advice of 
CEO(Chief Education Officer)
Cuddalore
(IV)
Yes
Tamil nadu Cuddalore
18,83,050/-
Direct
None
NA
8
Environment
1.	
Tree plants for tree plantation
(i)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Nagda
14,172/-
Direct
None
NA
10
Health & Hygiene
1.	
Girls & Boys school new toilet 
Rupeta
2.	
Girls school damaged flooring work 
Bhdla
3.	
Distribution of Cotton sweaters to 
Uchaheda School
(ii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Nagda
11,06,105/-
Direct
None
NA
11
Promoting Education
•	
Medical books & Project material 
for CSR
•	
School Bag & Compass box
•	
CCTV Camera work - CSR
•	
Wooden plywood writing table
(iii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Nagda
2,20,492/-
Direct
None
NA
12
Women Empowering
•	
USHA Sewing Machines with Stand.
•	
Sewing Machine Training honorium
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Nagda
90,270/-
Direct
None
NA
13
Health & Hygiene
•	
Helen Keller institute of deaf and 
blind (Swimming pool / roof and 
Open Gym)
•	
TRIUMPH Blood Centre Thane
•	
8 Thalassaemic patients and 100 
NAT Test
(i)
Yes
Maharashtra Jui Nagar 
Navi 
Mumbai
15,11,256/-
Direct
None
NA
14
Promoting Education
•	
Sponsor for International 
Conference on Computing STEM 
and Applied Sciences to be held at 
Birla College, Kalyan
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra Jui Nagar 
Navi 
Mumbai
1,00,000/-
Direct
None
NA
15
Environment Sustainability
•	
Earthern Routes - Voluntary 
Participation to plant vegetables, 
herbs and donated fertilizer.
(iii)
Yes
Maharashtra Jui Nagar 
Navi 
Mumbai
96,700/-
Direct
None
NA
Total
1,02,21,826/-
(d)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
(e)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not applicable for FY 2024-25 as per the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder
(f)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year: ₹1,02,21,826/-
(g)	 Excess amount for set off in succeeding financial years, if any: ₹12,346/-
i.	
Unspent CSR Expenditure
	
(a)	 Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three Financial years:
Sr. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135
(in ₹)
Amount spent 
in the reporting 
Financial Year
(in ₹)
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per section 135(5), 
if any.
Amount remaining to 
be spent in succeeding 
financial years (in ₹)
Name of the 
Fund
Amount 
(in ₹)
Date of transfer
Nil
	
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent in the Financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding Financial year(s): Nil
ii.	
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired 
through CSR spent in the Financial year: Not applicable
iii.	
Reason(s) for not spending the amount at 7: Not applicable for FY 2024-25
12.	 Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two % of the average net profit as per section 135(5) 
- Not Applicable since the Company has spent according to its CSR obligation.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Mrs. Diana Dhote 	
 Mr. Sambit Roy
Chairperson	
 	
Managing Director
DIN: 10558367	
 DIN:08291664
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 29, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
42
43
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure C
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 
5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
i.	
The ratio of remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees 
of the Company and percentage increase in remuneration of each director for the 
financial year 2024-25:
	
Median Salary for FY 2024-25 is ₹7,25,148/-
Name
Total 
remuneration 
(in ₹)
Ratio
% increase in 
remuneration
Mr. Ravi Kapoor
Nil
NA
NA
Mr. Bharath Sesha
1,63,00,899/-
22:1
Not Comparable
Mr. Sambit Roy
1,13,39,411/-
16:1
Not Comparable
Mr. Jugal Sahu
2,09,29,029/-
29:1
124.0
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
5,00,000/-
1:1
(58.3)
Mr. Kewal Handa
5,00,000/-
1:1
(50.0)
Mrs. Diana Dhote
5,00,000/-
1:1
Not Comparable
Ms. Amee Joshi
64,99,761/-
9:1
Not Comparable
Ms. Ashwini Natekar
5,57,695/-
1:1
Not Comparable
Notes:
(a)	 Mr. Bharath Sesha resigned effective August 31, 2024.
(b)	 Mr. Sambit Roy was appointed effective November 25, 2024.
(c)	 Ms. Amee Joshi resigned as a Company Secretary and Compliance Officer effective June 30, 2024.
(d)	 Ms. Ashwini Natekar was appointed as an Interim Company Secretary and Compliance Officer effective September 20, 2024 
and resigned effective July 16, 2025..
(e)	 Remuneration paid to Mr. Bharath Sesha, Mr. Sambit Roy and Mr. Jugal Sahu includes PLVA, special incentive, as the case 
may be and does not contain Commission as it is not paid to the Executive Directors.
(f)	 Remuneration paid to Ms. Amee Joshi and Ms. Ashwini Natekar includes PLVA, special incentive, as the case may be.
(d)	 Remuneration relating to Non-Executive and Independent Directors includes commission which is proposed to be paid for 
FY 2024-25.
ii.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 8.7%
iii.	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company as on March 31, 2025: 485
iv.	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile 
increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there 
are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
	
Average Percentile Increase for other than managerial personnel: 9.24%
	
Average Percentile Increase for managerial personnel: 21.62%
v.	
It is affirmed that the remuneration paid during the year under review is as per the 
remuneration policy of the Company.
	
STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF RULE 5(2)(I) 
OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION) RULES, 2014 AND FORMING PART OF 
THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025:
Sr. 
No.
Name and Age  
(in years)
Designation
Nature of 
Employment
Total 
Remuneration 
(in ₹)
Qualification and 
Experience (in 
years)
 Date of 
Commencement 
of Service
Last employment 
eld before joining 
the Company 
1.
Mr. Bharath Sesha Managing Director 
(upto August 31, 
2024)
Permanent 
Employee
1,63,00,899/-
Engineering with 
Management Degree - 
Institute for Technology 
and Management, 
Chennai. Master’s 
in International 
Management - 
Thunderbird School of 
Global Management, 
USA. (over 20 years)
April 23, 2022
Diverse experience 
across multiple 
sectors, including 
life sciences, 
industrial, and 
material sciences.
2.
Mr. Sambit Roy
Managing Director 
(effective November 
25, 2024)
Permanent 
Employee
1,13,39,411/-
B.E. Chemical  
(29 years)
January 02, 2002
Kesoram Rayon  
(BK Birla)
3.
Mr. Jugal Sahu
Executive Director 
and Chief Financial 
Officer 
Permanent 
Employee
2,09,29,029/-
FCA, ACS, CMA and 
CIMA (UK) (29 years)
June 01, 2022
JSW Steel Limited
	
1.	
The gross remuneration includes Salary, PLVA, Company’s contribution to Provident Fund and Superannuation Scheme, 
Leave Travel Allowance, Medical, House Rent Allowance, Pension and value of perquisites in respect of car facility, 
which is calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, and the Rules made thereunder.
	
2.	
The conditions of employment are contractual.
	
3.	
Other terms and conditions are as per the rules of the Company.
	
4.	
In terms of Rule 5(2)(iii) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration) Rules, 2014, it is clarified that during 
the Financial Year under review, no employee of the Company was in receipt of remuneration in that year, which in the 
aggregate or as the case may be at a rate which in the aggregate is in excess of that drawn by the Working Directors 
and holds himself / herself along with their spouse and dependent children not less than 2% of the equity shares of 
the Company.
	
5.	
None of the employees / Directors mentioned above are related to any other Director in terms of the provisions of 
The Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015. 1,960 equity shares of the 
Company are being held in the name of Jugal Sahu HUF of which Mr. Jugal Sahu is the Karta.
	
7.	
Details of remuneration of top 10 employees other than Directors which form part of the Directors’ Report, will be 
made available to any member on request, in terms of provision of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
44
45
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure D
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule no.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To
The Members
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33,
MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar,
Navi Mumbai 400705 India
CIN: L24110MH1956PLC010806
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Heubach Colorants India Limited, 
(hereinafter called as the ‘Company’). This Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances 
and expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I 
hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during 
the audit period covering the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed, and other returns maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
read with Amendments;
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee 
Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999; (no 
event to report)
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; 
(no event to report)
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 read with Amendments, regarding 
the Companies Act and dealing with client;
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (no 
event to report)
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (no 
event to report)
vi.	
The other laws that are applicable specifically to the 
Company are as follows:
	
a.	
Factories Act, 1948;
	
b.	
Environment Protection Act, 1986 and other 
applicable environmental laws;
	
c.	
Hazardous Waste (Management and Handling) 
Rules, 1989 and Amendment Rules, 2003;
	
d.	
All applicable labour laws including Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, Minimum Wages Act, 1948, 
Employees' Provident Fund & Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act, 1952, etc.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
(ii)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
During the year under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. as mentioned above.
I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is 
duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The 
changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were 
sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
Majority decisions are carried through, with no dissenting 
members for any agenda item at the Board Meetings held 
during the period under review
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
During the year under review, M/s Sudarshan Europe BV, 
which is the wholly owned company of M/s Sudarshan 
Chemical Industries Limited along with M/s Sudarshan 
Chemical Industries Limited acquired Global Pigment Business 
Operations of Heubach Group. Consequently, M/s Sudarshan 
Chemical Industries Limited became the ultimate holding 
company of the Company by way of indirect holding of 54.36% 
shareholding in the Company.
There was a delay in submission of audited financial results 
for the quarter and year ended on March 31, 2025 as the 
finalization of accounts and audit was under process and dais 
results were considered and approved by the Audit Committee 
and Board of Directors at its meeting held on July 16, 2025 and 
necessary formalities and submissions were completed as per 
the statutory requirements. BSE and NSE had imposed fine on 
the Company attributable to the said delay and the Company 
has paid the said fine within the timeline as specified by the 
Stock Exchanges.
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure and forms an integral part of this Report.
For J.R. Ahuja & Co.
Company Secretary
Jagdish Ahuja
Proprietor
FCS No. 9079; C.P. No. 10563
	
Peer Review Certificate 
Date: August 11, 2025	
No. 1877/2022
Place: Mumbai	
UDIN: F009079G000973251
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
46
47
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
To
The Members
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33,
MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar,
Navi Mumbai 400705 India
CIN: L24110MH1956PLC010806
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is responsibility of the management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about correctness of 
the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that the correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. I believe that the processes and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of account of the Company as well 
as correctness of the values and figures reported in various disclosures and returns as required to be submitted by the 
Company under the specified laws, though we have relied to a certain extent on the information furnished in such returns.
4.	
Wherever required, I obtained management representation about the compliance of laws, rules, regulations, norms and 
standards and happening of events.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of the corporate and other laws, rules, regulations, norms and standards is the responsibility 
of the management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The secretarial audit report is neither as assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For J.R. Ahuja & Co.
Company Secretary
Jagdish Ahuja
Proprietor
Date: August 11, 2025	
FCS No. 9079; C.P. No. 10563
Place: Mumbai	
Peer Review Certificate No. 1877/2022
Annexure E
FORM AOC-2
Pursuant to Clause (h) of Sub-Section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm's length basis: Not Applicable
1.	
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm's length basis for the year ended March 31, 2025:
(₹ in Lakhs)
Name(s) of the 
related party 
and nature of 
relationship
Nature of 
contracts/ 
arrangement/ 
transactions
Duration of the 
contracts / 
arrangements / 
transactions
Salient terms of 
the contracts or 
arrangements or 
transactions
Date(s) of 
approval by 
the Board, 
if any:
Amount 
paid as 
advances, 
if any
Value
Sudarshan 
Singapore SLO 
Pte. Ltd. (formerly 
known as Heubach 
Colorants Singapore 
Pte. Ltd.)
Sale of finished goods 
as per the purchase 
order raised from time 
to time.
Ongoing
Ordinary course of 
business and at arm’s 
length price
-
-
13,063
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Rajesh Rathi	
Sambit Roy
Chairman	
Managing Director
DIN (00018628)	
DIN (08291664)
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: August 11, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
48
49
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
INDEX
Section A
General Disclosures
Section B
Management and Process Disclosures
Section C
Principle wise Performance Disclosures
Principle 1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and 
accountable
Principle 2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Principle 3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Principle 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Principle 5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Principle 6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Principle 7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
Principle 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Principle 9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Section A: General Disclosures
	
	
	
	
I.	
Details of Heubach Colorants India Limited
	
Heubach Colorants India Limited (HCIL), formerly known as Clariant Chemicals (India) Limited, was established in 1956 
and has since evolved into a global leader in color chemistry and material science. With a strong legacy and deep expertise 
in pigment manufacturing, HCIL is committed to driving innovation and sustainability across the industry.
	
Sustainability is embedded in HCIL’s core values and strategic vision. In response to global challenges such as resource 
scarcity, demographic shifts, and climate change, the Company takes proactive responsibility for people, the environment, 
and the communities it serves. Through collaborative efforts with customers, partners, and suppliers, HCIL aims to transform 
the pigment industry toward a greener future ensuring that “All colors are green.”
Q. No. Details Required
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) 
of the Listed Entity
L24110MH1956PLC010806
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Heubach Colorants India Limited, formerly known as Clariant Chemicals (India) 
Limited
3.
Year of Incorporation
1956
4.
Registered office address
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor D-33, MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area 
Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705 India
5.
Corporate office address
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor D-33, MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area 
Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705 India
6.
E-mail
investor.relations_india@heubach.com
7.
Telephone
022 20874406
8.
Website
www.heubach.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting 
is being done
FY 2024-25
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) 
where shares are listed
BSE Limited & National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11.
Paid-up Capital (₹ in lakhs)
23,08,17,980
Q. No. Details Required
12.
Name and contact details 
(telephone, email address) of the 
person for BRSR Reporting
Mr. Jugal Sahu
Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer jugal.sahu@heubach.com
022 – 2087 4406
13.
Reporting boundary
As the Company does not have any subsidiaries, the Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report has been prepared on a standalone basis.
14.
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II.	 Products/Services
16. 	Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% Of Turnover of the 
entity
1
Manufacturing and sale of 
synthetic organic coloring matter
Manufacture of organic, pigment preparations, dyes and 
specialty materials for various applications
100%
17. 	Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover)
Sr. 
No.
Product/Services
NIC Code
% of total turnover 
contributed
1
Manufacture of organic, pigment preparations, dyes and specialty 
materials for various applications
20114
89%
III.	 Operations
18. 	Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Sr. 
No.
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
1.
National
3
2
5
2.
International
Nil
Nil
Nil
19. 	Markets served by the entity
	
a.	
Number of locations
Sr. 
No.
Locations
Number
1.
National (Number of states)
27
2.
International (Number of countries)
4
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
Out of total revenue 81,803.79 Lakhs INR on a standalone basis for the year 2024-25, the percentage of revenue from 
exports contribute to 32.19% (26,259 Lakhs INR).
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
We serve a broad spectrum of industries for our high‑performance organic and inorganic pigments, as well as pigment 
preparations. Our product portfolio encompasses approximately 500 offerings tailored to cater diverse coating 
applications. An overview of our key product categories and their applications can be found hereunder:
Sr. 
No.
Category
Applications
1
Coatings
Automotive coatings, coil coatings, corrosion protection, exterior paints & plasters, 
floor coatings, industrial coatings, interior decorative paints, point of sale, powder 
coatings, road marking & traffic paints and wood coatings.
2
Corrosion Protection
Anti-corrosive pigments for steel, protective coating alternatives for chrome based 
anti-corrosives and zinc free anti-corrosive pigments
3
Plastics
Automotive plastics, construction & electrical, consumer goods, fiber and packaging
4
Printing & digital printing
Ink jet, printing for packaging, publication, specialty printing and toner
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
50
51
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sr. 
No.
Category
Applications
5
Special applications
Home & fabric care, personal care, seed coloration & crop protection, aluminium 
anodizing dyes & chemicals, stationery, viscose coloration, latex coloration, leather 
and paper coloration, concrete & plaster
	
	
For more details, please visit the website https://heubach.com/products-applications/
IV.	 Employees
20. 	Details as at the end of Financial Year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
%(B/A)
No. (C )
% (C/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)
225
198
88%
27
12%
2
Other than Permanent (E )
21
18
86%
3
14%
3
Total employees (D+E)
246
216
88%
30
12%
Workers
4
Permanent (F)
260
257
99%
3
1%
5.
Other than Permanent (G )
649
616
95%
33
5%
6.
Total workers (F+G)
909
873
96%
36
4%
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
%(B/A)
No. (C )
% (C/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
1
1
100%
0
NA
2
Other than Permanent (E )
0
0
NA
0
NA
3
Total differently employees (D+E)
1
1
NA
NA
NA
Differently Abled Workers
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
NA
0
NA
5
Other than Permanent (G )
0
0
NA
0
NA
6
Total differently abled workers (F+G)
0
0
NA
0
NA
21. 	Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total
No. and percentage of 
Females
No. (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
6
1
17%
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33%
22. 	Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2025
(Turnover rate in  
Current Year)
FY 2024
(Turnover rate in  
Previous Year)
FY 2023
(Turnover rate in the prior to 
previous year)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent employees
18.67%
36.07%
20.94%
18.78%
28.57%
20.00%
17.66%
19.05%
17.80%
Workers
3.87%
28.57%
4.20%
6.27%
0.00%
6.20%
5.64%
0.00%
5.59%
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including Joint ventures)
23. 	Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / 
associate companies / joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares held by 
listed entity
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Heubach Holding Switzerland AG
(formerly Colorants International AG)
Holding
36.56%
No
2.
Heubach EBITO Chemiebeteiligungen AG
(formerly EBITO Chemiebeteiligungen AG)
Holding
17.80%
No
VI.	 CSR details
24. 	i.	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: 
	
ii.	
If yes, Turnover – (in ₹) 82,506 Lakhs
	
iii.	 Net worth - (in ₹) 52,334 Lakhs
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. 	Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct (NGBRC):
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(If yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
No. of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
No. of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
No. of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
No. of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Investors 
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Shareholders 
https://heubach.
com/heubach-
india/investor-
relations-india-
overview/ 
7
Nil
Nil
4
Nil
Nil
Employees 
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Workers
3
0
NA
3
0
NA
Customers
241
0
NA
26
2
NA
Value Chain 
Partners 
(Suppliers, 
Vendors, 
Contractors, 
Transportators, 
Indirect Material 
Suppliers etc)
38
0
NA
36
0
NA
Other (please 
specify)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
52
53
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
26. 	Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Sr. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
Environment
1
Carbon 
emission
Risk
•	 Higher carbon footprint of the 
products has negative impact 
on sales and revenue generation 
as customers are preferring 
lesser carbon footprint 
products.
•	 Climate change poses 
significant physical and 
transition risks to operations 
and supply chain of the 
Company.
•	 Global swift towards low carbon 
economy and sustainable 
practices leads to change in 
existing technologies to align 
with the requirements
•	 Conduct Life Cycle Assessment 
(LCA) of products to estimate 
the carbon footprint.
•	 Deploy eco-friendly 
technologies and processes to 
reduce the carbon footprint of 
the products.
•	 Switch to renewable energy and 
replace fossil fuels with cleaner 
fuels.
•	 Conduct energy audit and 
implement energy conservation 
measures.
•	 Implement risk mitigation 
plan for the identified risks of 
physical and transition risks of 
climate change.
Negative
2
Circular 
economy 
(Waste & Water 
Management)
Opportunity
Waste Management:
•	 Promoting sustainable waste 
management practices 
(Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) 
reduces the dependency on 
natural resources and also 
conserves energy associated 
with raw material extraction, 
processing and transportation. 
•	 Recycling and reuse of waste 
reduces waste disposal 
costs and also mitigates the 
environmental risks arising due 
to waste disposal.
•	 Enhance the recycling of waste 
by identifying the end use 
applications. 
•	 Optimize raw material 
consumption for resource 
conservation and to reduce 
waste generation.
Positive
Water Management:
•	 100% of treatment and reuse of 
treated wastewater in various 
industrial applications helps in 
mitigating water related risks. 
•	 Conservation of water 
helps in reducing the water 
procurement, treatment & 
disposal costs of wastewater.
•	 Improve the treated wastewater 
parameters to reuse within 
the operations and reduce the 
dependency on freshwater 
resources. 
•	 Implement water conservation 
measures through deployment 
of water efficient technologies 
and processes etc. 
•	 Conduct water audits and 
identify the areas for water 
conservation. Practice rainwater 
harvesting.
Sr. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
3
Sustainable 
Innovation
Opportunity
•	 Innovation leads to production 
of greener and sustainable 
products which has high market 
potential due to increase in 
the environmentally conscious 
customers.
•	 Innovation of new pigment 
products with improved 
characteristics such as better 
color, intensity, durability and 
resistance to fading shall have 
high customer acceptance and 
helps in business growth and 
expansion.
•	 Conservation of resources 
can be achieved through use 
of alternative and recycled 
materials in the product 
development.
•	 Invest in research and 
development of products with 
lesser environmental footprint 
and more sustainable. 
•	 Collaborate with research 
institutes to leverage their 
expertise, resources and 
knowledge to develop 
breakthrough innovations.
Positive
Social
4
Occupational 
Health & Safety
Risk
•	 Operations at manufacturing 
facilities involve working 
with heavy machinery & 
equipment and exposure to 
higher temperatures, chemical 
& physical hazards which may 
pose health & safety risks to 
employees and workers.
•	 Health & safety related 
incidents may hamper the 
operations of the company 
leading to lesser productivity.
•	 Non-compliance to health & 
safety standards may lead to 
legal actions by the regulatory 
agencies as per the local laws.
•	 Identify and mitigate the health 
& safety related risks through 
Risk Assessment and Hazard 
Identification process.
•	 Conduct safety audits to 
identify & mitigate health & 
safety related risks.
•	 Conduct regular training 
programs to employees and 
workers on health & safety 
practices.
•	 Provide necessary treatment 
to employees and workers 
by diagnosis of occupational 
and non-occupational health 
diseases.
•	 Improvement in ergonomics 
and implement 5S at workplace 
to mitigate the health & safety 
related risks.
•	 Ensure Personal Protective 
Equipment (PPE) is mandatory 
to all employees and workers 
prior to entry into plant 
premises.
Negative
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
54
55
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sr. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
5
Operations & 
Supply Chain
Opportunity
•	 Improves operational efficiency 
by promoting circular economy, 
energy conservation and 
conservation of resources.
•	 Responsible and ethical 
sourcing of raw materials 
mitigates environmental risks 
arising from the extraction of 
raw materials.
•	 Implementation of sustainable 
supply chain management 
practices mitigates the business 
disruption related risks in the 
value chain of the Company.
•	 Implement sustainable supply 
chain management practices 
to mitigate supply chain related 
business disruptions and 
associated risks.
•	 Diversify the suppliers and 
modes of transportation to 
mitigate the supply chain risks 
during adverse conditions.
•	 Assess the suppliers on 
environmental, social and 
governance parameters.
•	 Ensure HCIL responsible 
sourcing policy is adopted by 
all value chain partners of the 
Company.
Positive
6
Talent 
management
Opportunity
•	 Enhancing the skills of the 
employees and workers fosters 
innovation, improve productivity 
and operational performance of 
the company. 
•	 Retention of talented employees 
and workers with required 
skill set, experience and 
expertise improves the overall 
performance of the Company 
and ensures sustainable growth.
•	 Identify skill gaps and enhance 
the skills by conducting 
necessary technical and 
leadership training programs.
•	 Implement robust hiring system 
to hire talented people.
•	 Provide necessary support 
to employees and workers to 
motivate, empower and achieve 
their career aspirations.
Positive
Governance
7
Business EthicsOpportunity
•	 Implementation of robust 
governance practices and 
ensuring utmost integrity, 
accountability and transparency 
helps in achieving long-term 
growth and success of the 
Company.
•	 Operating the business in 
an ethical and transparent 
manner in compliance with the 
local regulatory requirements 
mitigates business risks and 
enhance the reputation & brand 
value for the Company.
•	 Conduct due diligence on 
ethics and compliance-related 
matters.
•	 Ensure adherence to all 
applicable laws and regulations.
•	 Maintain strict compliance 
with the Company’s Code of 
Conduct.
•	 Implement an enterprise-level 
risk management framework to 
address ESG-related risks.
•	 Establish robust systems and 
practices to prevent non-
compliances.
Positive
8
Succession 
Plan
Opportunity
•	 Implementation of succession 
planning helps in smooth 
transition of leadership roles 
avoiding disruption of business 
operations.
•	 Upcoming future leaders are 
aligned with the Company’s 
strategic goals, targets & 
commitments facilitating long 
term execution of business 
strategies.
•	 Implement a robust leadership 
succession plan by identifying 
critical roles across the 
organization.
•	 Develop a detailed succession 
roadmap outlining role 
transitions, timelines, and 
procedures.
•	 Establish mitigation measures 
to manage business continuity 
risks during leadership 
transitions.
Positive
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
	
	
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies, and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements
Policy and Management processes
Points
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1. (a)	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
(b)	
Has the policy been approved by 
the Board? (Yes/No) 
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
(c) 	
Web Link of the Policies, if available The link (https://heubach.com/heubach-india/investor-relations-india-overview/
policies/) contains the following 15 policies: 
•	 Heubach Code of Conduct
•	 Detail of Training Imparted to Independent Directors 
•	 HCIL Vigil Mechanism Policy
•	 HCIL Policy on Preservation of Documents
•	 HCIL Related Party Transaction Policy
•	 HCIL Draft Letter of Appointment of Independent Director
•	 HCIL Prohibition of Insider Trading Policy
•	 HCIL Familiarization Programme
•	 HCIL Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior Management
•	 HCIL Code for Independent Directors
•	 HCIL Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy
•	 HCIL Policy on Materiality of Events
•	 HCIL Risk Management Policy
•	 HCIL Dividend Distribution Policy
•	 HCIL Nomination & Remuneration Policy
2. Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3
Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4
Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ standards 
(e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
Principle 2:
•	 ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management Systems)
•	 ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental Management Systems)
•	 ISO 50001:2018 (Energy Management Systems)
•	 UN Global Compact
•	 The Chemical Industry Responsible Care Initiative
•	 Global labelling Mgt GLM Tool
Principle 3:
•	 ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System)
Principle 4:
•	 Membership of Bombay Chambers of Commerce 
•	 Indian Chemical Council
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
56
57
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Points
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Principle 6:
•	 OEKO-TEX
•	 Eco Passport Certification
•	 SDG Initiative
Principle 8:
•	 As per CSR rules defined under the Companies Act, 2013
Principle 9:
•	 ISO 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety
•	 ISO 172025:2017 (Testing and Calibration Laboratories Standard)
5
Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any.
The Company has identified its key ESG priorities through a structured materiality 
assessment and integrated them into its overall business strategy. Progress on 
ESG-related commitments, goals, and targets is reviewed by the CSR and Risk 
Management Committee and reported to the Board on a periodic basis.
The Company has set the following targets to be achieved by 2030, with FY2019 as 
the baseline year:
•	 3% reduction in total water intake
•	 10% reduction in wastewater generation
•	 10% reduction in specific hazardous waste generation
•	 10% reduction in specific energy consumption
•	 10% reduction in specific direct CO₂ emissions
•	 10% reduction in specific water discharge
•	 Implement sustainable water management practices at its manufacturing 
sites located in Roha, Cuddalore, and Nagda.
6
Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals, and 
targets along-with reasons in case the 
same are not met.
Yes, the performance on ESG goals and other relevant details are disclosed in this 
Annual Report FY 2024-25.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7
Statement by director responsible 
for the business responsibility report, 
highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets, and achievements (listed entity 
has flexibility regarding the placement of 
this disclosure)
Sustainability remains integral to Heubach Colorants India Limited’s (HCIL) 
corporate strategy driving innovation, product life-cycle stewardship, and circular 
economy solutions that collectively reduce our environmental footprint and 
enhance long-term value creation.
In FY25, we continued to advance our environmental agenda by improving 
energy-use efficiency and accelerating the transition to cleaner fuels. Our water 
stewardship programs at Roha, Cuddalore, and Nagda sites made measurable 
progress in optimizing water intake, discharge, and reuse. These efforts are 
aligned with our 2030 sustainability commitments (baseline: 2019), which 
include targeted reductions in specific energy consumption, direct CO₂ emissions, 
freshwater usage, wastewater generation, and hazardous waste volumes. 
These goals guide site-level action plans and performance reviews, ensuring 
accountability and continuous improvement.
We remain committed to delivering high-quality, resource-efficient products that 
support our customers in achieving their own sustainability objectives. Over 90% of 
our production sites continue to be certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 
45001, reflecting our disciplined approach to quality, environmental management, 
and occupational health and safety.
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact and an active participant in Responsible 
Care, we uphold global principles of human and labor rights, anti-corruption, and 
responsible environmental practices across our value chain. These affiliations 
reinforce our commitment to ethical governance and sustainable operations.
Our people agenda is centered on health and safety, inclusion, and capability 
development. We invest in leadership and skill-building programs to empower 
our workforce and foster a culture of innovation and collaboration. Through our 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, we continue to deliver meaningful 
outcomes for marginalized and vulnerable communities, contributing to inclusive 
and equitable societal progress.
Oversight of our sustainability strategy rests with the Managing Director and Board-
level committees responsible for CSR and Risk Management. This governance 
structure ensures transparent decision-making, regulatory compliance, and 
ongoing stakeholder engagement.
As we look ahead, we remain focused on deepening our ESG impact, scaling 
clean technologies, and strengthening our partnerships for a more resilient and 
sustainable future.
8
Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
Mr. Sambit Roy
DIN: 08291664
Designation: Managing Director
9
Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). 
If yes, provide details.
Yes. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Risk Management Committee 
of the Company is responsible for decision-making on sustainability-related 
commitments, goals, and targets. The Committee periodically updates the Board 
of Directors on the status of implementation. In addition, the Company has internal 
frameworks and cross-functional committees in place to monitor the effective 
implementation of sustainability-related policies and initiatives.
10 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company
a
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee
Subject for Review
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
2
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b
Frequency (Annually (A) / Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other – please specify)
Subject for Review
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
The business responsibility policies are periodically reviewed by the department 
heads, plant heads and Board of Directors on an annual basis. During these 
assessments, the adequacy of the policies is reviewed and adequate changes to 
policies, procedures and internal controls are implemented accordingly.
2
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and the rectification of any 
non-compliances
The Company is compliant will all statutory requirements and applicable laws. There 
were no instances of non-compliance in the reporting period.
11 Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working 
of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the 
agency.
The evaluation and assessment of policies are carried out periodically by an internal 
audit committee and group company auditors, risk management committee, CSR 
committee and the respective department heads to identify the improvement areas 
and updated to the board of directors for necessary amendments. Independent 
assessment is carried out by an external agency on need basis.
12 If answer to question (1) above is 
“No” i.e., not all Principles are covered 
by a policy, reasons to be stated:     
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a 
position to formulate and implement the 
policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/
human and technical resources available 
for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next 
financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
58
59
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Section C: Principle-wise performance disclosure
Principle 1: Business should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is 
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
Heubach Colorants India Limited (HCIL) is committed to the highest standards of integrity, transparency, and accountability 
across its operations. The Company’s corporate governance framework is built on well-established systems, robust internal 
controls, and adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements. These elements collectively support informed and 
ethical decision-making across all levels of the organisation.
HCIL’s Code of Conduct is anchored in three core values of Safety, Sustainability (People, Planet, Profit), and Compliance which 
guide employee behavior and business practices. These values are reinforced through regular communication, training, and 
monitoring mechanisms. Compliance is embedded into daily operations via periodic internal reviews, quality assurance protocols, 
and risk management systems. With sustainability deeply integrated into its strategy, HCIL proactively identifies and mitigates 
ESG risks to ensure long-term value creation for all stakeholders.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the FY 2025
Segment
Total number 
of training & 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training 
and its impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
4
As part of our familiarisation programme and 
meetings, we arrange special sessions for Board 
Members with the Executive Management Team and 
Key Managers. These sessions give detailed insights 
covering important areas such as business ethics, 
regulatory compliance, corporate governance, ESG, 
CSR, insider trading regulations, code of conduct, and 
anti-harassment policies. These initiatives help foster 
a culture of integrity, awareness, and responsible 
decision-making across the organisation.
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
4
100%
Employees other than 
BoD and KMPs
12
Health & Safety, E-Procurement, operations 
management, statutory requirements, reporting 
mechanism, resource optimization, skill development, 
human rights, Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
(PoSH) of men and women, Code of Conduct, 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and 
Emergency preparedness.
100%
Workers
12
Health & Safety, E-Procurement, operations 
management, statutory requirements, reporting 
mechanism, resource optimization, skill development, 
human rights, Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
(PoSH), Code of Conduct, Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) and Emergency preparedness.
100%
2.	
Details of fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by its directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions in FY 2025
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
Judicial institutions
Amount  
(In ₹)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/ No)
Penalty/Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non – Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
Judicial institutions
Amount  
(In ₹)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/ No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal / Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or nonmonetary action has been appealed
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
NA
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption policy or antibribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if 
available, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes. The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABC) Policy that applies to all employees and third 
parties engaged in business activities with the Company. The policy is aligned with global best practices and relevant legal 
frameworks, including the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials, the UK Bribery Act, the US 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (India), and other applicable local laws.
	
The ABAC Policy outlines the Company’s commitment to zero tolerance for bribery and corruption and provides guidance 
on ethical conduct, reporting mechanisms, and compliance responsibilities. The policy is accessible to employees via the 
Company’s intranet.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/Employees/Workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption
Segment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
1
Directors
Nil
Nil
2
Key Managerial Personnel
Nil
Nil
3
Employees
Nil
Nil
4
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest
Segment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
1
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
2
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
60
61
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and 
conflicts of interest.
	
Not Applicable
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in 
the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
122
132
9.	
Open-ness of business:
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans 
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a. 	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
12.14
9.15%
b. 	 Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
73
76
c. 	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
49
51
Concentration of Sales a. 	 Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
Nil
Nil
b. 	 Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are 
made
Nil
Nil
c. 	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers / distributors
Nil
Nil
Share of RPTs in
a. 	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
0.11
22.39%
b. 	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
28.47%
30.40%
c. 	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties / Total loans & advances)
Nil
Nil
d. 	 Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
Nil
Nil
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial 
year:
Total number 
of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training
%age of value chain partners covered 
(by value of business done with 
such partners) under the awareness 
programmes
2
Human rights, Child and forced labors, Working 
conditions, responsible sourcing, Environment & 
Health Protection, Safety, Occupational Health & 
Safety, Compliance- Business ethics, fair competition
100%
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/No) If yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes. The Company has appropriate systems and practices in place to avoid and manage conflicts of interest at the Board 
level. A separate Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Senior Management outlines the expectation that they 
shall not engage in any business, relationship, or activity that may conflict with the interests of the Company.
	
In the event of a potential conflict, the concerned Director is required to make full disclosure of all relevant facts and 
circumstances. Such disclosures are placed before the Board, which is collectively responsible for evaluating the matter 
and taking decisions in the best interest of the Company. 
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is a pioneer in  developing sustainable color technologies that prioritize environmental safety and regulatory 
compliance. The Company integrates bio-based materials and eliminates substances of concern to enhance the sustainability 
profile of its products. 
Guided by the principles of Green Chemistry, HCIL designs products and processes that minimize hazardous substances, improve 
energy efficiency, and promote circularity ensuring that innovation is both responsible and future-ready.
Product safety and quality remain central to HCIL’s value proposition, enabling customers to make informed and environmentally 
responsible choices. The Company’s Responsible Sourcing Policy sets clear expectations for ethical and compliant practices 
across its value chain, particularly in areas such as mineral sourcing and chemical safety. Through these measures, HCIL ensures 
that its goods and services are not only high-performing but also aligned with global standards for sustainability and safety.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
Segment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
Nil
Nil
Disclosed in HCIL’s Annual Report for 
the FY 2024-25
Capex
36%
₹2,018.65 Lakhs
2.	
a. 
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes. HCIL has established comprehensive procedures to promote sustainable sourcing across its value chain. All 
suppliers- including those providing goods, services, distribution, and sales support- are required to comply with our 
Responsible Sourcing Policy, which aims to ensure legal compliance, mitigate supply chain risks, enhance sustainability 
performance, and uphold our reputation for responsible business conduct.
	
	
Procurement decisions are guided by the highest ethical and professional standards, as outlined in Heubach’s Code 
of Conduct, and are based on key criteria such as quality, service, price, and sustainability performance.
	
	
All suppliers are expected to adhere to the following sustainability and ethical principles:
	
	
i.	
Health and Safety: Compliance with all applicable occupational health and safety laws and regulations 
is mandatory.
	
	
ii.	
Human Rights: Suppliers must uphold human rights, including prohibiting child labour, forced labour, and 
modern slavery; preventing workplace harassment and discrimination; and respecting freedom of association 
and collective bargaining rights.
	
	
iii.	
Resource Efficiency & Environmental Protection: Suppliers are encouraged to reduce emissions, waste, and 
consumption of energy, water, raw materials, and soil. All waste must be handled and disposed of in accordance 
with environmental laws.
	
	
iv.	
Conflict Minerals – Mica & Cobalt: Suppliers must not source minerals from conflict-affected or high-risk areas. 
Heubach conducts supplier audits in line with the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) for cobalt. 
The use of mica as a raw material is strictly controlled and requires prior approval.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
62
63
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
	
v.	
Land and Property Rights: Suppliers must respect the lawful ownership and use rights of individuals and 
communities and avoid any unlawful acquisition.
	
	
vi.	
Environmental & Health Protection: Continuous efforts must be made to reduce environmental impact 
and improve product and process safety through robust Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) and quality 
management systems.
	
	
vii.	 Occupational Health & Safety: All applicable occupational health and safety regulations must be 
followed diligently.
	
	
viii.	 Emergency Preparedness: Suppliers are expected to identify potential emergency scenarios and implement 
adequate preparedness and response mechanisms.
	
	
ix.	
Business Ethics: Offering or accepting any form of undue advantage, including gifts or entertainment, to 
influence business decisions is strictly prohibited.
	
	
x.	
Fair Competition: Suppliers must comply with all relevant anti-trust and competition laws.
	
	
xi.	
Accurate Business Records: All transactions must be recorded truthfully, and financial records should be 
maintained in accordance with applicable laws and accounting standards.
	
	
xii.	 Trade Controls & Embargoes: Suppliers must comply with all relevant trade regulations, embargoes, 
and restrictions.
	
	
xiii.	 Anti-Money Laundering: Suppliers must implement measures to prevent and detect money laundering activities.
	
	
xiv.	 Conflict of Interest: Any actual or potential conflict of interest involving a Heubach employee or representative 
must be disclosed to the company.
	
	
xv.	 Data Protection: All personal data must be processed and protected in accordance with applicable data 
protection laws.
	
	
xvi.	 Confidentiality & Intellectual Property: Suppliers are required to safeguard confidential information and 
respect Heubach’s and third parties’ intellectual property rights.
	
	
	
To uphold transparency and accountability, any violations of the Supplier Code of Conduct can be reported—
anonymously if needed—via Heubach’s Digital Whistleblower System, accessible at: www.heubach.com/about/
compliance/ or by email: group.compliance@heubach.com. Heubach maintains a strict non-retaliation policy—no 
adverse action will be taken against individuals who report concerns in good faith.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
100% of the input materials were sourced sustainably by adopting Heubach’s responsible sourcing policy.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste
	
The Company is implementing sustainable waste management practices in all facilities through prioritizing reduce, reuse 
and recycle of waste wherever possible and dispose the residual waste fractions in safe manner. Plastic waste, other 
hazardous waste and other non-hazardous waste is being generated from the plant operations. Plastic waste is either 
recycled or co- processed, non-hazardous waste is composted, and hazardous waste is either incinerated or landfilled 
based on the type and composition of the waste.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If 
yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan 
submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable as per the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 and subsequent 
amendments. The Company has already obtained Plastic Waste EPR Authorization from the Central Pollution Control Board 
(CPCB) and the waste collection plan is in line with the EPR targets given by the CPCB.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following 
format?
NIC Code
Name of Product/
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment 
was conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No) 
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No) If yes, 
provide the web-
link.
201114
13 Azo Pigments
Refer the weblink for details https://heubach.com/sustainability/sustainable-
solutions/
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or 
disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or 
through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material 
to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Packaging Material (Paper box, HDPE)
2.3
0.3
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
Nil
214.23
24.92
Nil
29
97.35
E-waste
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Hazardous waste
Nil
109.32
2405.92
Nil
Nil
4181.09
Other Waste
Nil
367.58
1032.55
Nil
Nil
1971.40
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product 
category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total 
products sold in respective category
Plastic waste
More than 90%
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
At HCIL, we believe that our people are the foundation of our success. We foster a collaborative and inclusive work environment 
that promotes employee engagement, recognizes individual contributions, and supports professional growth. Our culture of 
high performance is built on mutual respect, trust, and equal opportunity irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age, or background. 
Through targeted training programs in technical skills and leadership development, we empower employees to unlock their 
potential and enhance both personal well-being and career advancement.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
64
65
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Employee health and safety are paramount at HCIL. We uphold a ‘Safety First’ culture across all operations, supported by rigorous 
standards and continuous improvement in workplace safety practices. Our commitment to employee well-being extends beyond 
compliance, aiming to boost morale, productivity, and overall satisfaction. By prioritizing inclusion, capability development, and 
a safe working environment, HCIL ensures that all employees and those across its value chain are respected, supported, and 
enabled to thrive.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No.
(B)
%
(B/A)
No.
(C)
%
(C/A)
No.
(D)
%
(D/A)
No.
(E)
%
(E/A)
No.
(F)
%
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
198
198
100%
198
100%
NA
NA
198
100%
NA
NA
Female
27
27
100%
27
100%
27
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
225
225
100%
225
100%
27
12%
198
88%
NA
NA
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
18
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
3
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
21
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No.
(B)
%
(B/A)
No.
(C)
%
(C/A)
No.
(D)
%
(D/A)
No.
(E)
%
(E/A)
No.
(F)
%
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male 
257
257
100%
257
100%
NA
NA
257
100%
NA
NA
Female
3
3
100%
3
100%
3
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
260
260
100%
260
100%
3
1.1%
257 98.9%
NA
NA
Other than Permanent Employees
Male 
616
For contract (other than permanent WORKERS), the service provider is 
responsible for insurance
Female
33
Total
649
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the company
0.81%
0.13%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits for Current and Previous Financial Years
Sr. 
No. Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
cover
ed as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.)
1
PF
100%
100%
Yes
100%
100%
Yes
2
Gratuity
100%
100%
Yes
100%
100%
Yes
3
ESI
Nil
4.61%
Yes
NA
4.09%
Yes
4
Superannuation
27.23%
Nil
Yes
37.87%
Nil
Yes
5
NPS
9.75%
Nil
Yes
Nil
Nil
NA
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces - Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled 
employees, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether 
any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, all offices and plants of the Company are accessible to differently abled employees.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, our Code of Conduct addresses equal opportunity in alignment with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. 
It explicitly prohibits discrimination based on gender, race or ethnicity, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual identity, or 
any other characteristic that contributes to individual uniqueness. We ensure equal opportunities throughout all stages of 
employment including recruitment, promotion, and professional development- and actively cultivate an inclusive culture 
where diversity is valued and leveraged. The Code of Conduct can be accessed through the weblink https://admin.heubach.
com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/New-Heubach-Code-of-Conduct.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave
Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Return to work 
Rate (%)
Retention Rate 
(%)
Return to work 
Rate (%)
Retention Rate 
(%)
Male
100%
100%
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of 
employees and workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
	
Yes, HCIL has a structured grievance redressal mechanism applicable to all categories of employees and workers. The 
Company’s Whistle Blower Policy (Vigil Mechanism) enables permanent and non-permanent employees and workers to 
confidentially report concerns or misconduct, including violations of the Code of Conduct.
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
1
Permanent 
workers
The Company’s Vigil Mechanism & Whistle-Blower Policy provides a secure and confidential platform to 
report concerns related to unethical conduct, legal violations, or breaches of the Code of Conduct. The 
mechanism is overseen by the Chairperson of the Audit Committee.
•	 Grievances may be reported through:
•	 Immediate supervisor or local/site management
•	 Country Compliance Officer, Legal Counsel, or HR Manager
Sealed written complaint addressed to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee at the Company’s 
registered office.
The policy ensures strict confidentiality and protection against retaliation for anyone raising concerns 
in good faith. While anonymous reports are permitted, disclosure of identity is encouraged to aid 
investigation. All complaints are investigated promptly, and outcomes are reported quarterly to the Audit 
Committee.
The Company’s Whistle Blower policy is available at https://admin.heubach.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/05/HCIL_Vigil-Mechanism-Policy.pdf
2
Other than 
Permanent 
Workers
3
Permanent 
Employees
4
Other than 
Permanent 
Employees
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
66
67
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
7.	
Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees 
/ Workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ Workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total 
Employees 
/ Workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D / C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
225
Nil
Nil
235
Nil
Nil
Male
198
Nil
Nil
201
Nil
Nil
Female
27
Nil
Nil
34
Nil
Nil
Total Permanent Workers
260
200
77%
269
192
71%
Male
257
198
77%
266
192
72%
Female
3
2
67%
3
Nil
Nil
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A) 
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D) 
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No (B) % (B/A) No (C) % (C/A)
No (E) % (E/D) No (F) % (F/D)
Employees
Male
198
198
100%
198
100%
201
201
100%
21
100%
Female
27
27
100%
27
100%
34
34
100%
34
100%
Total
225
225
100%
225
100%
235
235
100%
235
100%
Workers
Male
257
257
100%
Nil
Nil
266
266
100%
Nil
Nil
Female
3
3
100%
Nil
Nil
3
3
100%
Nil
Nil
Total
260
260
100%
Nil
Nil
269
269
100%
Nil
Nil
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers: 
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
198
198
100%
201
201
100%
Female
27
27
100%
34
34
100%
Total
225
225
100%
235
235
100%
Workers
Male
257
NA
NA
266
NA
NA
Female
3
NA
NA
3
NA
NA
Total
260
NA
NA
269
NA
NA
10.	 Health and Safety Management System
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes / No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
Yes. The Company has implemented a comprehensive Occupational Health and Safety Management System that 
covers 100% of its sites, including all employees and contract workers. At HCIL, safety is not just a priority- it is a core 
value and a non-negotiable commitment. We believe that our success stems from ensuring every individual returns 
home from work as healthy and safe as they arrived. This commitment extends to employees, contractors, guests, and 
visitors. Our facilities are certified under ISO 45001, and regular audits are conducted to ensure continual improvement 
and compliance with OHS standards.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
	
	
HCIL follows a structured and detailed approach to identifying work-related hazards and assessing risks, as outlined in 
our Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Guidelines. This includes mechanisms for routine and non-routine activities 
across all operational areas. We regularly evaluate and enhance systems, processes, and controls based on the risk 
assessments conducted.
	
	
As part of our proactive safety culture, we have introduced the initiative “Tag the Unsafe @ 48 hr” across all 
manufacturing units, commercial offices, warehouses, and laboratories. This involves red-tagging unsafe conditions, 
actions, situations, and behaviors, serving as a visual alert system to foster awareness and preventive action, 
contributing to our vision of “Together We Make Heubach Injury-Free.”
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes. The Company has established robust procedures for reporting unsafe conditions, hazards, and near-miss 
incidents. Employees and workers are empowered and encouraged to take immediate action, including withdrawing 
from unsafe work environments, to ensure personal and collective safety.
	
d.	
Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes / No)
	
	
Yes. HCIL operates a fully equipped Occupational Health Centre staffed with a qualified medical officer and support 
personnel. The Centre addresses both the physical and mental well-being of employees and contract workers, 
providing access to comprehensive medical and healthcare services beyond occupational requirements.
11.	 Details of Safety related incidents Data
Sr. 
No. Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
1
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
2
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
3
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
4
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
1
	
*Including contract workforce
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace
	
HCIL has adopted a comprehensive set of measures to create and maintain a safe, healthy, and efficient workplace. Key 
initiatives include:
	
1. 	
Ergonomics and Workplace Organization
	y
The Company has implemented ergonomic improvements across its facilities to reduce physical strain and enhance 
employee comfort.
	y
The 5S methodology has been introduced across workplaces to foster a culture of safety, efficiency, and continuous 
improvement. The five pillars of 5S include:
	
−Sort: Eliminate unnecessary items to reduce clutter.
	
−Set in Order: Organize tools and materials to ensure easy accessibility.
	
−Shine: Maintain cleanliness to improve safety and operational quality.
	
−Standardize: Develop standardized procedures to maintain consistency.
	
−Sustain: Embed 5S into daily operations, fostering accountability and continuous improvement.
	
	
Implementation of 5S has led to:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
68
69
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	y
Waste elimination and optimization of workflows, resulting in enhanced productivity, reduced lead times, and 
improved customer satisfaction.
	y
Improved safety by minimizing hazards in clean, organized environments.
	y
Enhanced quality through consistent adherence to defined standards.
	
2. 	
Safety Management Systems and Risk Mitigation
	y
Implementation of mitigation measures based on identified work-related hazards.
	y
Awareness programs to promote best practices in health and safety across all levels.
	y
Regular safety training for employees, workers, and contractors to build a culture of safety consciousness.
	
3. 	 Risk Assessment and Control Mechanisms
	y
Job Safety Analysis (JSA): Conducted prior to any job modification to ensure all necessary precautions are 
in place.
	y
HAZOP Study: Hazard and Operability analysis is undertaken to proactively identify and mitigate operational risks.
	y
Management of Change (MOC): Ensures all changes in operations or systems go through a structured safety 
evaluation process.
	y
Site ESHA Clearance: All new products are assessed and approved by the ESHA team before initiation to ensure 
safety compliance.
	y
Pre-Start Safety Review (PSSR): All new processes and installations undergo safety review prior to commissioning.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Health & Safety
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
14.	 Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) 
and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working 
conditions.
	
Not applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) 
Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N)?
	
Yes. All employees and workers are covered under health and accident insurance policies. In addition, permanent employees 
are also covered under a term life insurance plan. In the unfortunate event of death, the insurance amount—based on the 
employee or worker’s coverage—is paid to the designated nominee.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners.
	
The Company ensures that statutory dues are duly deducted and deposited by value chain partners in compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. This is monitored through contractual obligations and is also subject to periodic verification 
during internal and statutory audits. The Company expects all partners in its value chain to maintain compliance with 
statutory requirements as a fundamental part of responsible business conduct.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-
health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and 
placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees 
Nil
Nil
NA
NA
Workers
Nil
Nil
NA
NA
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
In certain cases, there can be an extension of employment for retired employees. No other transition assistance programs 
are available.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions 
100%
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns 
arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not applicable 
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
	
	
	
We are committed to sustainable and inclusive growth by aligning our business practices with the expectations and interests 
of all stakeholders. Our structured stakeholder engagement framework is supported by multiple communication channels that 
facilitate open dialogue, gather feedback, and address concerns in a timely and transparent manner. This approach enables us 
to build trust, foster collaboration, and drive shared value across our ecosystem.
We uphold ethical business conduct through transparent interactions and responsible decision-making. A dedicated team with 
clearly defined roles manages stakeholder relationships, supported by regular reviews and tracking mechanisms to ensure 
effective implementation of our engagement plans. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives are focused on uplifting 
marginalized and vulnerable communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to inclusive development 
and long-term societal impact.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Stakeholders play a critical role in supporting Heubach’s ESG objectives, business continuity, and overall value creation. 
The Company has established a structured stakeholder identification and engagement process, designed in alignment with 
the nature of its operations and associated activities. Stakeholders—both internal and external—are identified based on 
their level of influence, interest, impact, and criticality to the Company’s performance and services. A prioritization matrix 
is used to determine the most relevant stakeholder groups.
	
The process is supported by the following elements:
	
a.	
Stakeholder Identification: Key factors considered during stakeholder identification include impact, interest, 
legitimacy, influence, and criticality. This ensures that the Company engages with stakeholders who are most relevant 
to its business and sustainability priorities.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
70
71
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
b.	
Review Process: The stakeholder identification framework is periodically reviewed and updated to reflect changes 
in business strategy, operational dynamics, and applicable laws and regulations. Stakeholder feedback is collected 
on a regular basis to address emerging concerns and ensure responsiveness.
	
c.	
Channels of Communication: Stakeholders are engaged through a variety of channels including in-person and virtual 
meetings, site visits, surveys, focus group discussions, and email communications. The choice of communication 
channel is based on accessibility and relevance to the stakeholder group.
	
d.	
Frequency of Engagement: Engagement frequency varies by stakeholder group, depending on materiality, 
relevance, and priority. Interactions may be conducted on a daily, weekly, quarterly, half-yearly, or annual basis, as 
deemed appropriate.
	
To enable effective stakeholder engagement, the Company has defined clear roles and responsibilities and established 
tailored engagement approaches suited to each stakeholder group’s needs. Regular awareness programs are also conducted 
for employees to build internal capacity and ensure that stakeholder concerns are appropriately understood and addressed.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group
Stakeholder group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key topics 
and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Shareholders
No
All important information relating 
to the Company, its performance, 
shareholding pattern, quarterly 
results, press releases and 
other information as per the 
SEBI Regulations are regularly 
posted on Company’s website 
and also forwarded to the Stock 
Exchanges. The quarterly, half-
yearly and annual Financial results 
of the Company are published 
in newspapers. Annual Report is 
circulated to the shareholders. 
Annual General Meeting is 
conducted once a year. 
Periodic & annually
Provide them the updates 
about the Company 
Suppliers & Vendors No
Emails, meetings
Yearly
Company’s policies, 
achievements, 
targets, sustainability 
improvements, business 
status & progress. 
Employees
No
Emails, meetings, notice board, 
website etc.
Monthly townhall 
meetings by MD, 
monthly cascade 
meetings by 
department leads 
Purpose - Establish 
connect and sense of 
engagement within the 
employees. Key topics - 
Business performance, 
Key business updates, 
Challenges and 
achievements. Initiatives 
like - Employee 
engagement groups, HR 
Open House, Sales meets 
etc are also undertaken. 
Communities
Yes
Email, meetings, focused group 
discussions 
Monthly
Implementation of CSR 
initiatives and projects
Regulatory and 
statutory bodies
No
Emails, meetings
As per the 
requirement
Statutory Compliances
Certifying and testing 
agencies
No
Emails, meetings
Yearly
Statutory Compliances
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations 
provided to the Board.
	
Consultations with identified stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics are facilitated through periodic 
interactions led by the CSR and Risk Management Committees. These committees serve as key channels for stakeholder 
engagement. The Board is updated on a quarterly basis through formal reporting mechanisms, wherein inputs received 
from stakeholders are consolidated and presented to support strategic decision-making.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of 
environmental, and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs 
received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes. Stakeholder consultations are integral to the identification and management of material environmental and social 
topics. Feedback is obtained through surveys and engagement forums and has informed the formulation of the Company’s 
sustainability strategy across four key pillars:
	
i.	
Economic Performance: Innovation, product quality, and product safety
	
ii.	
Environment: CO₂ emissions, waste management, and sustainable product development
	
iii.	
Social: Occupational health and safety, HR policies, and human rights
	
iv.	
Corporate Governance: Code of Conduct, compliance mechanisms, and stakeholder collaboration
	
The feedback from both internal and external stakeholders has directly contributed to revising company policies and aligning 
operational priorities with stakeholder expectations and sustainability goals.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of 
vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
The Company’s CSR Committee is specifically mandated to engage with vulnerable and marginalized stakeholder 
groups. Through structured needs assessments and community engagement, the Committee identifies priority areas for 
intervention. CSR initiatives and projects are then designed and implemented in alignment with the CSR Policy to address 
the specific concerns raised by these groups. These initiatives aim to create measurable positive impact and support 
inclusive development.
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is firmly committed to respecting and promoting human rights across its operations and value chain. The Company 
maintains a zero-tolerance policy towards discrimination, child labor, and forced labor, and expects all value chain partners to 
adhere to its Responsible Sourcing Policy, which mandates compliance with human rights standards. HCIL fosters an inclusive 
workplace that upholds dignity, equality, and fairness for all individuals, regardless of identity or background.
To reinforce this commitment, HCIL conducts regular employee training on human rights principles, best practices, and the 
grievance redressal mechanism. The Company aligns its practices with globally recognized frameworks, including the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Conventions, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Any reported 
violations related to health and safety, fair compensation, labor rights, or privacy are addressed promptly and transparently, 
ensuring a respectful and rights-based approach to business conduct.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
72
73
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity 
Category
FY 2025 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2024(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Permanent
225
225
100%
235
235
100%
Other than permanent
21
21
100%
28
28
100%
Total Employees
246
246
100%
263
263
100%
Workers
Permanent
260
260
100%
269
269
100%
Other than permanent
649
649
100%
700
700
100%
Total Workers
909
909
100%
969
969
100%
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers
Category
FY 2025 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2024 (Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
No. (E) % (E / D) No. (F)
No. (F)
Employees
Permanent
225
0
0
225
100
235
0
0
235
100
Male
198
0
0
198
100
201
0
0
201
100
Female
27
0
0
27
100
34
0
0
34
100
Other than 
Permanent
21
0
0
21
100
28
0
0
28
100
Male
18
0
0
18
100
21
0
0
21
100
Female
3
0
0
3
100
7
0
0
7
100
Workers
Permanent
260
0
0
260
100
269
0
0
269
100
Male
257
0
0
257
100
266
0
0
266
100
Female
3
0
0
3
100
3
0
0
3
100
Other than 
Permanent
649
0
0
649
100
700
0
0
700
100
Male
616
0
0
616
100
666
0
0
666
100
Female
33
0
0
33
100
34
0
0
34
100
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
	
a.	
Median remuneration/wages: 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category (in Lakhs)
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category (in Lakhs)
Board of Directors (BoD)
6
59.20
1
29.50
Key Managerial Personnel
3
163.01
2
35.38
Employees other than BoD and 
KMP
195
13.15
25
14.06
Workers
257
6.02
3
3.62
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
7.2%
6.7%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Yes, the Company has a Whistle Blower Policy applicable to all directors, employees, officers, and third parties to report 
human rights violations through a secure vigil mechanism, overseen by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Grievances 
related to human rights are addressed by the Internal Compliance Committee, ensuring prompt and fair resolution. The 
mechanism aligns with international standards, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Nil
NA
Discrimination at 
workplace
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Forced Labour/ 
Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Wages
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Other human rights 
related issues
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
0
3
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0
3.85
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
3
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
	
The Company ensures strict confidentiality in all discrimination and harassment cases and follows a zero-retaliation policy. 
Access to complainant-related data is restricted to the investigation team and individuals responsible for implementing 
corrective actions.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. Human rights clauses are included in all business agreements and contracts. Suppliers and service providers are required 
to accept the human rights provisions outlined in HCIL’s Responsible Sourcing Policy before entering into any agreement.
10.	 Assessments for the year
Section
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child Labour
100%
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
100%
Sexual Harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
100%
Others – please specify
NA
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns 
arising from the assessments at Question 10 above
	
Not applicable
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
74
75
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints.
	
Not Applicable. The existing policies, processes and mechanisms addresses all kinds of human rights related risks and there 
is no such requirement for business process modification.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
	
None
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Child Labour
100%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
100%
Wages
100%
Others – please specify
NA
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns 
arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Not applicable 
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
At HCIL, environmental stewardship is a core pillar of our sustainability strategy. We are committed to minimizing our ecological 
footprint by integrating environmentally responsible practices across our operations, product development, and value chain. 
Our approach is guided by the principles of resource efficiency, pollution prevention, and circular economy, with a strong focus 
on reducing emissions, conserving water, managing waste responsibly, and transitioning to cleaner energy sources.
We continuously invest in green technologies and process innovations that support long-term environmental protection and 
restoration. Our environmental management systems are aligned with global standards and regularly reviewed to ensure 
compliance with applicable regulations and evolving stakeholder expectations. Through proactive risk assessments, site-level 
action plans, and transparent reporting, HCIL remains dedicated to protecting natural ecosystems while contributing to a more 
sustainable and resilient future.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in GJ) and energy intensity
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) (GJ)
50,521
40,446
Total fuel consumption (B) (GJ)
4,22,289
4,65,075
Energy consumption through other sources (C) (GJ)
58,020
58,020
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) (GJ)
5,30,830
5,63,541
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
37,977
51,391
Total fuel consumption (E)
55,496
53,485
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
93,473
1,04,876
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
6,24,303
6,68,417
Energy intensity per crore of turnover (Total energy consumed/ Revenue 
from operations in crores)
763.17
845.35
Energy intensity per crore of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations in crores 
adjusted for PPP)
16,901
15,972
Energy intensity in terms of physical output **
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the 
Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose 
whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, 
provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
Not applicable 
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i) Surface water
Nil
Nil
(ii) Groundwater
3,06,981
2,85,149
(iii) Third party water
7,27,616
9,32,910
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
Nil
Nil
(v) Others
Nil
Nil
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
10,34,597
12,18,059
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
10,34,597
12,18,059
Water intensity per crore of turnover (Total water consumption / Revenue 
from operations in crores)
1,356
1,441
Water intensity per crore of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations in crores adjusted 
for PPP)
28,008
29,106
Water intensity in terms of physical output **
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
76
77
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)	To Surface water
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	To Groundwater
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	To Seawater
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
2,68,600
2,29,475
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
6,31,708
5,70,568
(v)	Others
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
3,601
3,099
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
9,03,909
8,03,142
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
The Company is having 3 facilities in Roha, Nagda and Cuddalore. Among these 3 facilities, Nagda facility has implemented 
Zero Liquid Discharge Mechanism and in the remaining plants more than 80% of the water is being recycled.
6.	
Provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
Tonnes
37.64
5.49
SOx
Tonnes
6.46
5.42
Particulate matter (PM)
Tonnes
2.36
1.45
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
NA
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
NA
NA
Others – please specify
-
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into  
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Tonnes CO2 equivalent 
(tCO2e)
1,868
1,476
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into  
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Tonnes CO2 equivalent 
(tCO2e)
10,612
10,428
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
crore of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions/ Revenue from operations in crores)
16.35
14.08
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
crore of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 
/ Revenue from operations in crores adjusted for PPP)
337.85
284.45
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms 
of physical output **
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency
	
No
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide 
details.
	
Yes. The Company has implemented several initiatives to reduce GHG emissions across its operations through renewable 
energy adoption, energy efficiency, operational optimization, and fuel transition. Key initiatives include:
	
1.	
Renewable Energy Adoption
	y
Roha Site: Commissioned a solar power project; currently, 57% of total electricity consumption is sourced from 
renewable energy.
	y
Cuddalore Site: Implemented a hybrid model using wind and solar; 40% of total electricity is sourced from 
renewable energy.
	
2.	
Energy Conservation through Steam Optimization
	y
Weekly monitoring of the steam network; defective steam traps replaced using a leak tag system.
	y
Reuse of steam condensate to conserve energy.
	y
Rationalized targets for steam consumption per ton of production.
	y
Conducted regular Steam/Air Audits to identify conservation opportunities.
	y
Installed additional spin flash dryers and membrane filter presses at Roha, reducing dependence on steam and 
compressed air.
	
3.	
Energy Optimization through System Improvements
	y
Installed valve bag auto packing machine at Roha to optimize container loading and minimize transport-related 
energy use.
	y
Reduced frequency of VFDs for high HP motors without affecting output.
	y
Replaced conventional lighting with LED lights across all facilities.
	y
Upgraded to energy-efficient air conditioners with automated temperature control.
	y
Conducted weekly compressed air audits and replaced old motors with energy-efficient models.
	y
Used transparent roofing sheets to enhance natural lighting and reduce dependency on electric lights.
	y
Implemented timer logic for non-critical stirrer operations and installed VFD-based air compressors to manage 
load fluctuations.
	y
Replaced pumping with gravity flow for effluent handling to reduce energy use.
	y
Switched to localized lighting controls to avoid unnecessary energy consumption.
	
4.	
Operational Efficiency Measures
	y
Increased batch sizes where feasible to conserve energy and raw materials.
	y
Optimized drying temperature to reduce drying time in tray dryers and RVDs.
	
5.	
Transition to Cleaner Fuels and Alternate Energy Sources
	y
Replaced biodiesel with high calorific value LPG for hot air generators to lower emissions.
	y
Installed solar water heaters at restroom facilities to reduce electricity usage.
	y
Switched from furnace oil to LSHS oil, and from diesel to LPG (Cuddalore) for spin flash dryers to reduce 
GHG emissions.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
78
79
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in MT)
Plastic waste (A)
214
126
E-waste (B)
Nil
Nil
Bio-medical waste (C)
Nil
Nil
Construction and demolition waste (D)
Nil
6.82
Battery waste (E)
Nil
Nil
Radioactive waste (F)
Nil
Nil
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) 
3,540
4,181
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
1,770
1,971
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
5,524
6,286
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue from 
operations in crores)
6.96
7.44
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations in crores 
adjusted for PPP)
143.74
150.20
Waste intensity in terms of physical output **
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be s7elected by the entity
NA
NA
	
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in MT)
(i) Recycled
112.13
102.35
(ii) Re-used
Nil
Nil
(iii) Other recovery operations
Nil
Nil
Total
112.13
102.35
	
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in MT)
(i) Incineration
71.76
48.18
(ii) Landfilling
2436.24
2179.17
(iii) Other disposal operations 
2030.72
4058.31
Total
4538.71
6285.65
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and 
processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
i.	
At Nagda, chemical sludge from wastewater treatment plant- Generation, Collection, storage and disposal M/s TSDF, 
Pithmpur waste management.
	
ii.	
Empty barrels/ containers/ liners/ contaminated with hazardous chemicals/ wastes- Generation, Collection, storage 
and send to Authorized Recyclers (Recyclable)/Generation, Collection, storage and disposal authorized recycler.
	
iii.	
We are having the facility of collection, segregation, separation, decontamination and storage in well-defined and 
scientifically established of all kinds of waste with fire protection facility.
	
iv.	
We have the standard operating procedure for each type of waste generated (in metric tonnes) available on site. We 
are keeping the record of generation and disposal. Also, we are sending all these records to authority MPPCB in time.
	
v.	
Reduce and reuse the waste pattern is applied in each area of operation at Roha through waste minimization program. 
Various process waste is reduced by process improvements and modifications.
	
vi.	
Used or spent oil: Generation, collection, storage and send to Authorized Recyclers (Recyclable)
	
vii.	
Chemical sludge form wastewater treatment plant: Generation, Collection, storage and disposal M/s TSDF, 
Gummidipoondi/ Generation, Collection, storage and send to cement industries for Coprocessing
	
viii.	 Empty barrels/ containers/ liners/ contaminated with hazardous chemicals/ wastes: Generation, Collection, storage 
and send to Authorized Recyclers (Recyclable)/ Generation, Collection, storage and disposal M/s TSDF, Gummidipoondi
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, 
wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation 
zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details
S. No. Location of operations/
offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N). If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
1
Plot No. 113/114 MIDC Dhatav 
Industrial Estate, Dhatav village, 
Roha Taluka, Raigad
Production
Yes
12.	 Details environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year
Name and brief 
details of project EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency  
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain  
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
1 (d) schedule B-2 
Category project 
(New Cogeneration 
Plant in the existing 
unit of the company 
in MIDC Dhatav
SEIAAEC-0000000510 November 6, 
2018
Yes 
Yes
SEIAA Meeting No: 143 
Meeting Date: October 19, 
2018 ( SEIAASTATEMENT- 
0000000763 ) SEIAA-
MINUTES-0000000722 
SEIAA-EC-0000000510
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law / regulations / guidelines in India, such 
as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act, Environment Protection Act, and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-
compliances:
S. No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken 
by regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control boards or by courts
Corrective 
action taken, 
if any
Yes, the Company is compliant with all applicable laws, regulations and guidelines and there are no non-compliances in the 
reported period.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters):  
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information: 
	
(i) 	 Name of the area:  Cuddalore & Nagda
	
(ii)  Nature of operations: Pigments and Intermediates
	
(iii) 	Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i) To Surface water
NA
NA
(ii) Groundwater
3,06,981
2,85,149
(iii) Third party water
56,111
39,409
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
80
81
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
NA
NA
(v) Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters)
3,63,092
3,24,558
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
3,63,092
3,24,558
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
565.02
410.47
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)	Into Surface water
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	Into Groundwater
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	Into Seawater
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
2,68,600
2,29,475
(iv)	Sent to third parties
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	Others
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
3,601
NA
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
2,72,201
2,29,475
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
	
No
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
Not Monitored
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency
	
No
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, 
provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-
with prevention and remediation activities.
	
Not applicable 
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please 
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives:
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, 
if any, may be provided along-with 
summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
LPG Usage started in place of 
diesel for Spin flash dryer Burners
LPG introduced as a cleaner alternative to 
diesel fue
Cost Reduction and 25% less sulphur 
and co2 emission compare with diesel.
2
Wind and solar power Usage 
started in place of EB Power
Integration of renewable energy sources
Cost savings achieved; renewable 
energy transition has reduced CO₂ 
emissions
3
Solar power Usage started in 
place of EB Power
Solar power now contributes 54% of total 
energy requirement
Significant cost reduction; 100% 
reduction in CO₂ emissions from the 
replaced electricity consumption
4
Sustainable pigment developmentSustainable PCF and bio-based selected 
Azo & HPP product development for coating 
and plastic application
Resource conservation and reduces 
the environmental footprint of the 
products.
5
Implementation of circularity in 
preparation of pigments for
plastic industry
Circular economy colour solution for 
pigments used in plastics industry.
a.	 Detectable black
b.	 PCR shade matching
c.	 Re-cycle range
d.	 Ok for compostable
Promotes recycling of
materials
6
Preparation of biodegradable 
pigment products
Biodegradable colour solution to H&PC
Reduces environmental footprint of 
pigment products
7
Resource conservation in the 
production process of pigment
Mass coloration of Lyocell fibre for reducing 
water consumption
Water conserved through deployment 
of mass coloration for Lyocell fibres
8
Utilization of renewable fuels
•	 Non-renewable fuels and high 
carbon emitting fuels are replaced 
with Biomass briquettes at Roha and 
Cuddalore facilities.
•	 85% of the fuel for production of steam 
comprises of biomass briquettes.
Reduces greenhouse gas emissions 
from the operations of the Company.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ 
web link.
	
Yes. We are having a well-defined disaster management plan and is linked with our raw material requirements and supporting 
utility services. We are a member of district disaster management and industrial association group. By undertaking the 
various drill competition planned we are ensuring the preparedness and crisis management plan effectiveness. This will 
help for any disaster activities and required mitigation help, which will reduce the adverse impact on environment.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. 
What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
Not Applicable
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed 
for environmental impacts
	
None
8.	
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:
By the organization
By the top ten value chain partners
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
82
83
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
We actively engage with industry associations, regulatory bodies, and relevant stakeholders to support the sustainable growth 
of the pigment manufacturing sector. The Company actively contributes to policy discussions that address sector-specific risks 
and advocates for long-term sustainability, innovation, and responsible business practices. These engagements are aligned 
with HCIL’s strategic priorities and aim to foster a balanced regulatory environment that benefits both industry and society.
All public policy interactions are conducted in a responsible, ethical, and transparent manner, in accordance with HCIL’s internal 
governance framework, applicable laws, and business conduct policies. A structured approach ensures that advocacy efforts are 
carried out with integrity and accountability. HCIL also collaborates with non-governmental organizations and institutions involved 
in shaping regulatory decisions, reinforcing its commitment to responsible influence and transparent stakeholder dialogue.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers / associations:
	
	
2
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers / associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of / affiliated to
Sr. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
The Bombay Chamber of Commerce
State
Indian Chemical Council
National 
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct 
by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr. 
No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly 
/ Others – please specify)
Web Link, if 
available
Nil
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
We deeply committed to promoting inclusive growth and equitable development, particularly in communities surrounding 
our operational areas. Through targeted Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, the Company focuses on uplifting 
marginalized and vulnerable groups by addressing critical needs in education, healthcare, infrastructure, livelihood generation, and 
environmental restoration. These efforts are designed to create long-term socio-economic value and foster community resilience.
HCIL’s CSR strategy is anchored on the pillars of goodwill, compliance, and impact, ensuring that all initiatives are thoughtfully 
designed, responsibly executed, and aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A dedicated CSR Policy and 
Committee oversee project implementation and grievance redressal, enabling transparent governance and effective community 
engagement. By integrating social responsibility into our core business philosophy, HCIL continues to contribute meaningfully 
to inclusive and sustainable development.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in FY 25
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes 
/ No)
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity
Sr. 
No.
Name of project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY 24 (in ₹)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community
	
The CSR committee periodically interacts with the communities to receive and redress grievances. The communities 
can also communicate their grievances to site level CSR team or to the corporate office via email. The site level team 
also regularly communicates with key stakeholders from the surroundings communities. The CSR team also implement 
necessary initiatives and projects through its CSR policy redressing the grievances of the communities.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
14%
5%
Directly from within India 
90.50%
78.38%
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or 
workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in following locations, as % of 
total wage cost
Location 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural 
Nil
Nil
Semi-urban 
48%
36%
Urban 
39%
10%
Metropolitan 
13%
54%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
84
85
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
Sr. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (in ₹)
Nil
3.	
a.	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No
	
b.	
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not applicable
	
c.	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your 
entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared (Yes 
/ No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property 
related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority 
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Sr. No.State
District
Amount Spent (in ₹)
1
Tamil Nadu
Cuddalore
31,52,820
2
Madhya Pradesh
Ujjain
14,31,039
3
Maharashtra
Juinagar, Navi Mumbai
17,07,956
Sr. 
No. CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefitted from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
Cuddlore 
1
Tailoring Classes organized in Kudikadu location
17
4%
2
Providing medical equipment Cuddalore Govt General Hospital as per the 
request letter was received  from GH, Cuddalore on 20.01.2025
1500
16%
3
Blood Donation and Health promotion camp organized in Cuddalore Govt 
Hospital
76
2%
4
Provide ECG machine(1no) and inverter (1no)for Thondamanatham Govt 
primary health centre
500
3%
5
Providing medical equipment and RO drinking water to Cuddalore Govt 
General Hospital
1500
8%
6
R.O. Plant for Patient and other equipment at Govt. Hospital- 
Kannarapettai, battery provide
750
8%
7
Sothikuppam Evening Learing centre running project and distributing 
notebooks to students
60
5%
Sr. 
No. CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefitted from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
8
Installing CCTV on the playground in Nellikuppam Govt Girls High School
475
5%
9
Painting - to Kudikadu Middle School infrastructure
90
5%
10
Provide school bench, computer and Cupboards to Sothikuppam Govt 
High School
200
10%
11
Govt school Classroom - Infrastructure / Construction of class room - As 
per advice of CEO(Chief Education Officer)Cuddalore
200
33%
Nagda
1
Girls & Boys school new toilet at  Rupeta school
145
14%
2
Girls school damaged flooring work Bhadla
70
7%
3
Distribution of Cotton swetors to needy studentsat Uchaheda School 
108
11%
4
Medical books & Project material for needy poor girl
1
1%
5
Distribution of School Bag & Compass box
40
4%
6
CCTV Camera installation work, Durgapura village
500
47%
7
Wooden plywood writing table doneted to Gov school
51
5%
8
 Sewing Machines classes in Durgapura village
15
2%
9
Tree plantation at Banbani village school
94
9%
Juinagar
1
Earthern Routes - Voluntary Participation completed to plant vegetables
40
100%
2
Birla School Kalyan "Sponsor for International Conference on Computing 
STEM and Applied Sciences"
300
7%
3
Thalassemic - TRIUMPH Blood Centre Dialysis and NAT Kit
108
9%
4
Helen Keller Institute for Deaf & Deafblind - Swimming Pool / Open Gym 
85
43%
Roha
1
Gymnasium Equipment for youth at Killa Village
85
34%
2
Construction of Washroom for Ladies at New English School Chanera
300
65%
3
Sewing Machines for needy women at Vicinity Gram panchayat 
6
100%
4
Domestic Flour Mills for needy women Kolad.
6
100%
5
Water Purifier System at R Z P School Kolad
224
80%
6
Bicycles for remote area girl students at Dhatav High School
20
100%
7
Washroom for Girls at New English School Kokban
90
70%
8
Washroom for Girls at R Z P School Aare Khurd
26
54%
9
Construction of Classroom at M B More Arts Science Commerce Women 
College 
1000
67%
10
Construction of Science Lab for students at R M Wagle Medium School- 
Dhamansai
108
61%
11
Construction of Classroomat M B Patil English School- Varse
550
84%
12
Education Infrastructure at J M Rathi English School - Roth
1600
32%
13
Provion of Shed at premises of Dhatav Police station for daily visiting 
villegers
200
24%
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
	
	
	
	
	
HCIL is committed to delivering high-quality, sustainable products that meet evolving customer expectations and enable 
environmentally responsible choices. The Company continuously invests in product innovation and enhancement to create long-
term value for its consumers, ensuring that its offerings align with global sustainability standards and performance benchmarks.
A robust Quality Management System (QMS) underpins HCIL’s commitment to excellence, ensuring adherence to stringent quality 
protocols across its product portfolio. The Company prioritizes exceptional customer service through timely, personalized support 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
86
87
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
and maintains effective mechanisms to address consumer concerns. By fostering trust, transparency, and responsiveness, HCIL 
ensures that its engagement with consumers is ethical, responsible, and value driven.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback
	
The customer complaints are handled through QNS system in SAP Database. The Company is having online customer 
complaints register and evaluation system is connected in System Application and Product Database. All registered 
complaints are shared with applicable area owner & quality managers who would analyze it and share the solutions with 
concerns. All these complaints are in reference with the quality safety, transportation issue, packing issue, environment 
issue, dispatch issues.
2.	
Turnover of products and / services as a percentage of turnover from all products/ service that carry 
information about
State
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
Advertising
Cyber-security
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
Delivery of essential 
services
18
0
None
26
2
None
Restrictive trade 
practices
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
Unfair trade practices
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
Others
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
No Incident 
Reported
N/A
None
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on accounts of safety issues
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Nil
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
Nil
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework / policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Currently, the Company has a framework information security. But there is no company-wide data protection policy. Our 
policies are not publicly available.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and 
delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances 
of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services
	
Not applicable as no Incident Reported.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches
	
	
Not applicable as no Incident Reported
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
	
Not applicable as no Incident Reported
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
	
Not applicable as no Incident Reported
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide 
web link, if available).
	
Information on all products of Company is available on the website of the Company. Information can be accessed through 
the weblink https://www.heubach.com/products/.
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or 
services.
	
Every consignment is provided with necessary product details, Material Safety Data sheets (MSDS) which elaborates 
details on safe usage of various products manufactured by the Company.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services.
	
Any disruptions in supply of products will be informed to customers on priority basis through sales team located across India.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per 
local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable). If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey 
with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant 
locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
No data breaches
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
88
89
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Principles of Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance is a set of principles, processes and 
systems which governs a Company. The elements of Corporate 
Governance are independence, transparency, accountability, 
responsibility, compliance, ethics, values and trust. Corporate 
Governance enables an organisation to perform efficiently and 
ethically generate long-term wealth and create value for all 
its stakeholders.
The Corporate Governance policy in the Company encompasses 
the simple tenets of integrity, transparency, accountability and 
fairness in whatever the Company does. Heubach is ordained to 
set the highest standards of corporate governance right from 
its inception, benchmarked with the best-in-class practices 
across the globe. The corporate governance principles, that 
the Company adheres to, aims to provide shareholder value 
and transparency to ensure sustainable and long-term growth. 
The entire governance system is supported by well-structured 
systems and procedures that ensure well-informed decision 
making across different levels of management.
1.	
Group Structure
	
Heubach Colorants India Limited was a part of the 
Heubach group. With a tradition of delivering excellence 
that stretches back over 200 years, the Company name 
is synonymous with innovation, attention to customer 
needs and reliability in creating colors.
	
Sudarshan Europe B.V., Wholly Owned Subsidiary of 
Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited, had entered 
into a definitive agreement on October 11, 2024 for 
the acquisition of Global Pigment Business Operations 
of Heubach Group through a combination of an asset 
and share deal, subject to completion of customary 
conditions and receipt of requisite regulatory approvals. 
The said acquisition was completed on March 3, 2025 
for a preliminary purchase consideration of approx. 
₹138,990.0 Iakhs.
	
Consequent to the aforesaid acquisition, Sudarshan 
Europe B.V., Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Sudarshan 
Chemical Industries Limited has acquired entire 
shareholding of Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 AG 
(formerly known as Heubach Holding Switzerland 
AG and Colorants International AG) and Sudarshan 
Switzerland HLD2 AG (formerly known as Heubach Ebito 
Chemiebeteiligungen AG and Ebito Chemiebeteiligungen 
AG), promoters of the Company, resulting in indirectly 
acquiring 36.56% and 17.80% shareholding, respectively, 
in the Company. As per the provisions of SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, 
as amended, Sudarshan Europe B.V., being an Acquirer, 
along with Persons Acting in Concert (“PACs”) is in a 
process of acquiring upto 6,001,268 Equity Shares of 
Report on Corporate Governance
	
Approval of Shareholders was accorded for appointment 
of Mr. Rajesh Rathi as a Non-Executive Director and Non-
Independent Director, Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay as 
a Non-Executive and Independent Director, Mr. Naresh 
Raisinghani as a Non-Executive and Independent Director, 
Mrs. Anu Wakhlu as a Non-Executive and Independent 
Director and Mr. Mandar Velankar as a Non-Executive and 
Non-Independent Director through Postal Ballot on July 
6, 2025.
	
Mr. Ravi Kapoor (DIN: 01761752), Chairman and Non-
Executive Director of the Company, submitted his 
resignation vide letter dated July 16, 2025, due to 
his preoccupation with effect from close of Business 
hours on July 16, 2025. The Board of Directors and 
Management placed on record their deep appreciation 
for the contributions made by Mr. Ravi Kapoor during his 
association with the Company.
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on July 16, 
2025, Mr. Ravi Kapoor was succeeded by Mr. Rajesh Rathi 
(DIN: 00018628) who was appointed as a Chairman of 
the Board of the Company with effect from July 16, 2025, 
in addition to his current role as a Non-Executive Director.
	
Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay (DIN: 01806781), 
Independent Director tendered his resignation with effect 
from close of business hours on August 11, 2025 due to 
possibility of Mr. Mukhopadhyay getting into increased 
level of engagement with one of the group Companies 
of Sudarshan Chemical Group, which might potentially 
affect his independence to continue as an Independent 
Director of the company. This was not envisaged earlier 
Face Value H10/- each, representing 26% of the voting 
share capital of the Company through Open Offer process. 
Accordingly, the Company now forms part of Sudarshan 
Chemical Group.
2.	
Board of Directors
2.1	 Composition and Changes:
	
The Board has an optimum combination of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors, which is in conformity 
with the requirement of Regulation 17 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
The Company has 6 Directors out of which 3 are 
Independent Directors, 1 is a Non-Executive and Non-
Independent Director and 2 are in whole time employment 
of the Company, one being the Managing Director and 
another being the Executive Director as on March 31, 
2025. The Company has an active and independent 
Board of Directors that provide supervisory and strategic 
advice and direction.
	
Subsequent to closure of the Financial Year 2024-
25, based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of 
Directors approved:
	
1.	
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Rathi (DIN: 00018628) 
as an Additional Non- Executive Director of the 
Company, effective April 14, 2025, subject to 
approval of Shareholders;
	
2.	
Appointment of Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay (DIN: 
01806781) as an Additional Independent Director 
of the Company, for the term of 5 years, effective 
April 14, 2025, to April 13, 2030, subject to approval 
of Shareholders;
	
3.	
Appointment of Mr. Naresh Raisinghani (DIN: 
00568298) as an Additional Independent Director 
of the Company, for the term of 5 years effective 
April 14, 2025, to April 13, 2030, subject to approval 
of Shareholders;
	
4.	
Appointment of Mrs. Anu Wakhlu (DIN: 00122052) as 
an Additional Independent Director of the Company, 
for the term of 5 years effective April 14, 2025, to 
April 13, 2030, subject to approval of Shareholders.
	
5.	
Appointment of Mr. Mandar Velankar (DIN: 
11069055) as an Additional Non-Executive Director 
of the Company, effective May 2, 2025 by way of 
circular resolution dated May 2, 2025, subject to 
approval of Shareholders.
when Mr. Mukhopadhyay joined the Board of the Company. 
Mr. Mukhopadhyay confirmed that there were no other 
reasons, material or otherwise, for his resignation other 
than those mentioned above.
	
Mr. Jugal Sahu (DIN: 02629782), tendered his resignation 
from the position of Executive Director of the Company 
with effect from close of business hours on August 11, 
2025. However, Mr. Sahu shall continue to serve as Chief 
Financial Officer, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company.
	
The Directors on the Board are eminent professionals in 
business, finance, academic and corporate management 
and have vast experience in their respective fields which 
enable them to contribute effectively to the Company in 
their capacity as members of the Board.
	
The necessary disclosures regarding committee 
positions have been made by all the Directors. None of 
the Directors on the Board is a member of more than 10 
Committees and Chairman of more than 5 Committees 
across all Companies in which they are Directors.
	
None of the Independent Directors has any material 
pecuniary relationships or transactions with the 
Company, its Promoters, Directors, Associates which, in 
their judgment, would affect their independence. There 
is no relationship between the Directors inter-se.
	
The Board does not have any Nominee Director 
representing any institution.
	
The composition and category of the Board of Directors, as on March 31, 2025, the number of other Directorships/
Committee memberships held by them and also their attendance at the Board meetings of the Company is as under:
Name of the Director
Category
Particulars of Attendance
No. of other Directorships* and Committee 
Memberships / Chairmanships# in Indian 
Public Companies**
Number of Board 
Meetings held 
during the year 
wherein Director 
was entitled for 
attendance
Last AGM 
held on 
September 
25, 2024
Other
Directorships
Committee
Memberships
Committee
Chairmanships
Held
Attended
Mr. Ravi Kapoor
DIN 01761752
Chairman
Non-Executive 
(Non-Promoter)
15
14
Attended
3
2
1
Mr. Bharath R. Sesha
DIN 01983066
Managing Director
(upto August 31,2024)$
Executive  
(Non-Promoter)
8
7
NA
1
2
-
Mr. Sambit Roy
DIN
08291664
Managing Director
(with effect from November 
25,2024)$$
Executive 
(Non-Promoter)
4
4
NA
1
1
-
Mr. Kewal Handa
DIN 00056826
Non-Executive 
Independent 
(Non-Promoter)
15
15
Attended
8
9
5
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
90
91
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the Director
Category
Particulars of Attendance
No. of other Directorships* and Committee 
Memberships / Chairmanships# in Indian 
Public Companies**
Number of Board 
Meetings held 
during the year 
wherein Director 
was entitled for 
attendance
Last AGM 
held on 
September 
25, 2024
Other
Directorships
Committee
Memberships
Committee
Chairmanships
Held
Attended
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
DIN 00920608
Non-Executive 
Independent 
(Non-Promoter)
15
15
Attended
8
8
4
Mrs. Diana Dhote
DIN 10558367
Non-Executive 
Independent 
(Non-Promoter)
15
15
Attended
1
2
1
Mr. Jugal Sahu
DIN: 02629782
Executive Director & Chief 
Financial Officer$$$
Executive 
(Non-Promoter)
15
15
Attended
1
1
-
	
* Directorship held in Heubach Colorants India Limited is included and Directorships of Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies 
and Section 8 Companies of the Companies Act, 2013 are not included.
	
# It excludes committees other than Audit Committee & Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Companies other than Public Limited 
Company and includes Committee membership/chairmanship held in Heubach Colorants India Limited.
	
** the particulars of Directorship of Companies, Membership and / or Chairmanship in the Committees, as the case maybe, are as on March 
31, 2025.
	
$ Mr. Bharath Sesha (DIN 01983066) ceased to be a Managing Director effective close of business hours on August 31, 2024.
	
$$ Mr. Sambit Roy (DIN 08291664) was appointed as a Managing Director effective November 25, 2024.
	
$$$ Mr. Jugal Sahu (DIN 02629782) ceased to be an Executive Director effective close of business hours on August 11, 2025. Mr. Sahu 
continues to be Chief Financial Officer of the Company..
2.2	 Names of the listed entities where the Director holds Directorship as on March 31, 2025:
Sr. 
No. Name of the Director
Name of other listed entity(s)
Category of Directorship
1.
Mr. Ravi Kapoor
(Chairman & Non- Executive Director)
Hikal Limited
Alkyl Amines Chemicals Limited
Independent Director
Independent Director
2.
Mr. Kewal Handa
(Independent Director)
Borosil Limited
Borosil Scientific Limited
Akums Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited
Poonawala Fincorp Limited
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
3.
Mr. Bharath Sesha
(Managing Director)
(upto August 31,2024)
None
NA
4.
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
(Independent Director)
Assam Carbon Products Limited
Sasken Technologies Limited
Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Limited
Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited
Aditya Birla Lifestyle Brands Limited
Vodafone Idea Limited
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
5.
Mr. Jugal Sahu
(Executive Director and Chief Financial 
Officer)
None
NA
6.
Mrs. Diana Dhote
None
NA
7.
Mr. Sambit Roy (Managing Director) (with 
effect from November 25, 2024 )
None
NA
2.3	 Matrix setting out the skills / expertise / 
competence of Board:
	
The Board of Company comprises of qualified individuals 
who bring the required skills, competencies, expertise 
and diversity to the Board that allows them to contribute 
efficiently. The Board and Committees thereof, are 
committed to ensure that Company is compliant with 
the highest standard of Corporate Governance. The 
Board has identified and briefly summarized following key 
qualifications, skills and competence which are currently 
available with the Board:
Sr. 
No. Skill / Qualification / Expertise
1.
Strategic thinking & Vision
2.
Leadership
3.
Drive for Innovation & Improvement
4.
Driving a culture of Safety
5.
Stakeholders’ Relationship
6.
Global Business
7.
Commercial Management
8.
Social Responsibility
9.
Risk Management
10.
Corporate Governance, Finance & Taxation
	
The Independent Directors of the Company fulfill the 
conditions specified in the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
& Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended and are independent from the Management of 
the Company.
2.4	 Profile of the Directors proposed to be 
appointed/ re-appointed:
	
The brief profile and information pertaining to directorship 
held in other Companies, Shareholding, etc. of the 
Director proposed to be re-appointed at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting of the Company forms part of 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting. Further, there was 
no resignation of any Independent Director before the 
expiry of his/her tenure, during the year under review.
2.5	 Board Meetings and Agenda:
	
The Board provides strategic directions to the 
Company and evaluates management policies and their 
effectiveness to ensure that the long-term interests of 
the shareholders are being served.
	
In accordance with the law and the Articles of Association 
of the Company, the Board of Directors is the ultimate 
decision-making authority for the Company in all 
matters except those decisions reserved by law or the 
Articles of Association for shareholders. The Board has 
complete and unrestricted access to any information 
required by them to perform its supervisory duties and 
make decisions on the matters reserved for the Board of 
Directors. The Board generally meets once in a quarter to 
review, among other things, quarterly performance of the 
Company and Financial results. The Company provides 
video/teleconferencing facilities to facilitate Directors 
travelling or present at other locations, to participate 
in meetings. During the year under review, the Board 
of Directors held 15 meetings on April 3, 2024, April 
23,2024, May 1, 2024, May 8, 2024, May 29, 2024, June 
28, 2024, July 24, 2024, August 31, 2024, September 20, 
2024, October 16, 2024, November 14, 2024, November 
29, 2024, January 3, 2025, January 29, 2025, March 
29, 2025.
	
Only in case of urgent business, if the need arises, the 
Board’s/ Committee’s approval is taken by passing 
resolutions through circulation or by calling Board/ 
Committee meetings at shorter notice, as permitted 
under the Act and Secretarial Standard (‘SS’) issued by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
	
The compliance reports in respect of applicable laws 
are placed before the Board periodically. Agenda papers 
containing the necessary information/documents are 
made available to the Board in advance to enable the 
Board to discharge its responsibilities effectively and 
take informed decisions. Where it is not practicable to 
attach or send the relevant information as a part of 
agenda papers, the same are tabled at the meeting 
and/or the presentations are made in respect thereof. 
The information as specified in Part A of Schedule II of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 is made available to the Board, 
whenever applicable, for discussion and consideration. 
Considerable time is spent by the Directors on discussions 
and deliberations at the Board Meetings.
2.6	 Familiarization Programme:
	
The Company has put in place a well-structured induction 
and familiarization programme for its Independent 
Directors. The details of familiarization programme are 
available on Company’s website (www.heubach.com) 
at below path: https://heubach.com/heubach-india/
investor-relations-india-overview/policies/
2.7	 Independent Directors’ Meeting:
	
In accordance with the provisions of Schedule IV of 
Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, meetings 
of Independent Directors were held on May 01, 2024 and 
January 29, 2025 and attended by all the Independent 
Directors of the Company. The Independent Directors, 
inter alia, reviewed the following; the performance of the 
Chairman; the performance of Non-Independent Directors 
and the Board as a whole; the quality, quantity and 
timeliness of flow of information between the Company 
management and the Board that is necessary for the 
Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties; 
appointment of Legal Counsel for Independent Directors.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
92
93
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
2.8	 Performance evaluation:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulation, 2015, the Board has carried out the annual 
evaluation of its own performance and Board Committees 
by seeking the inputs of Directors on various aspects 
of the Board/Committee Governance. The Board has 
reviewed the performance of the individual Directors and 
the Chairperson.
	
The performance evaluation of the Directors was done 
based on criteria which included leadership qualities, 
contribution in strategic planning, balanced decision 
making, safeguard of confidential information, adherence 
to code of conduct, transparency, attendance, etc. In a 
separate meeting of Independent Directors, performance 
evaluation of Non-Independent Directors and the Board 
was evaluated.
	
e)	
Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and 
performance and effectiveness of audit process;
	
f)	
Approval and subsequent modification of 
transactions of the Company with related parties;
	
g)	
Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any 
other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors;
	
h)	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
	
i)	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
	
j)	
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
	
k)	
Review the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of Internal Auditors;
	
l)	
Review with the management, performance of 
Statutory and Internal Auditors, adequacy of the 
internal control systems;
	
m)	 Review the adequacy of internal audit function, if 
any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;
	
n)	
Review of reports of Statutory and Internal Auditors 
and replies of the management thereon;
	
o)	
Review of the findings of any internal investigations 
by the Internal Auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting 
the matter to the Board;
	
p)	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement 
of uses/application of funds raised through an 
issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, 
etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer documents / 
prospectus / notice and the report submitted by 
the monitoring agency monitoring the utilization 
of proceeds of a public or rights issue and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take 
up steps in this matter;
	
q)	
Discussion with Internal Auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up there on;
	
r)	
Review, with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to:
3.	
Board Committees
	
The Board of Directors has constituted/reconstituted 
five committees viz., Audit Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
and Risk Management Committee. The roles and 
responsibilities assigned to these Committees are 
covered under the terms of reference approved by 
the Board and are subject to review by the Board from 
time to time. The minutes of the meetings of these 
Committees are reviewed and taken note by the Board. 
The details as to the composition, terms of reference, 
number of meetings and related attendance etc. of these 
committees are provided below:
3.1	 Audit Committee
3.1.1 Composition and Meetings:
	
The composition of the Audit Committee is in conformity with Regulation 18 of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. During the year under review, 11 meetings were held on May 1, 2024, May 8, 2024, May 
29, 2024, July 24, 2024, August 31, 2024, October 16, 2024, November 14, 2024, November 29, 2024, January 3, 2025, 
January 29, 2025, March 29, 2025. The details of composition and the number of meetings attended by the members is 
given below:
Name
Position held
No. of Meetings held during the 
tenure of member
Held
Attended
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
Chairman
11
11
Mr. Kewal Handa
Member
11
11
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Member
11
11
Mr. Bharath Sesha (upto August 31, 2024)
Member
5
4
Mr. Sambit Roy (with effect from November 25, 2024)
Member
4
4
	
All the members of the Audit Committee are financially 
literate and considering their professional background 
and experience, have acquired respective management, 
financial, accounting and legal expertise. The Chairman 
of the Audit Committee is a Non-Executive Independent 
Director. Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar, Chairman of the 
Committee was present at the Annual General Meeting 
held on September 25, 2024.
	
The Chief Financial Officer and Auditors are invitees to 
the meetings of the Audit Committee. The Company 
Secretary acts  as Secretary to the Committee.
3.1.2 Terms of reference:
	
The Terms of reference for the Audit Committee are in line 
with the requirements of Section 177 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder and 
Regulation 18 of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulation, 2015. The terms of reference 
are briefly described as below:
	
a)	
Overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process to ensure disclosure of financial information 
as per the requirements of Stock Exchange and 
the Company Law and to ensure that the financial 
statements are correct, sufficient and credible;
	
b)	
Review and examination of quarterly, half yearly 
and annual financial statements and the auditors’ 
report thereon before submission to the Board 
for approval;
	
c)	
Review of Management Discussion and Analysis 
of financial condition and results of operations, 
statement of significant related party transactions;
	
d)	
Recommending to the Board, the appointment, 
reappointment and, if required, the replacement or 
removal of the Statutory Auditors, Internal Auditors 
and Cost Auditor and the fixation of audit fees and 
terms of appointment;
	
	
i)	
Matters required to be included in the Directors’ 
Responsibility Statement, forming part of the 
Board’s report in terms of Clause (c) of Sub-
Section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies 
Act, 2013;
	
	
ii)	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
	
	
iii)	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on exercise of judgment of management;
	
	
iv)	
Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings;
	
	
v)	
Compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statements;
	
	
vi)	 Disclosures of any related party transactions;
	
	
vii)	 Qualifications in the draft audit report;
	
s)	
Discussion with Statutory Auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as 
well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of 
concern and review of management representation 
letters to be issued to the Statutory Auditors;
	
t)	
Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in payments to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
	
u)	
Reviewing compliances as regards the Company’s 
Whistle Blower Policy;
	
v)	
Approval of the appointment of the Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) of the Company after assessing the 
qualifications, experience & background, etc. of 
the Candidate;
	
w)	 Carrying out any other function as may be referred 
by the Board, from time to time;
	
x)	
reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances 
from/investment by the holding Company in the 
subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of 
the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans/advances/investments 
existing as on the date of coming into force of 
this provision.
3.2	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
3.2.1 Composition and Meetings:
	
The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee is in conformity Regulation 19 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
94
95
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
During the year under review, 8 meetings were held on May 8, 2024, May 29, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 24, 2024, September 
20, 2024, October 16, 2024, November 14, 2024, November 29, 2024. The details of composition and the number of 
meetings attended by the members is given below:
Name
Position held
No. of Meetings held during the 
tenure of member
Held
Attended
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
Chairperson
8
8
Mr. Kewal Handa
Member
8
8
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Member
8
8
	
Other than this, none of the Directors, on the Board as on March 31, 2025, have any other pecuniary interest in the Company.
	
The Company has not framed any scheme/plan to grant stock option to its employees.
3.2.5 Service Contracts, Notice Period and Severance Fees:
	
The appointment and remuneration of the Managing Director and Executive Directors are subject to the provisions of the Act 
and the resolutions passed by the Board of Directors and Members of the Company which cover the terms and conditions 
of such appointment. There is no separate provision for payment of severance fee under the resolutions governing the 
appointment of Managing Director and other Executive Directors.
3.3. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
3.3.1 Composition and Meetings:
	
During the year under review, four meetings were held on May 29, 2024, July 24, 2024, November 14, 2024 and January 
29, 2025. The composition and details of the meetings attended by the members are given below:
Name
Position held
No. of Meetings held during the 
tenure of member
Held
Attended
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Chairperson
4
4
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
Member
4
4
Mr. Bharath Sesha (upto August 31, 2024)
Member
2
2
Mr. Jugal Sahu*
Member
2
2
	
*Mr. Jugal Sahu ceased to be an Executive Director of the Company with effect from close of business hours on August 11, 2025 and 
consequent to his resignation, he ceased to be a members of the committee.
3.2.2 Terms of reference:
	
(a)	 Formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and independence 
of a Director and recommend to the Board of 
Directors a Policy relating to, the remuneration 
of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
other employees;
	
(b)	 Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance 
of Independent Directors, other Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel;
	
(c)	 Devising a policy on diversity of Board of Directors;
	
(d)	 Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
Directors in accordance with the criteria laid down 
and recommend to the Board of Directors their 
appointment and removal;
	
(e)	 Identifying persons who are qualified to become Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMP) in accordance with the 
criteria laid down and recommend to the Board of 
Directors their appointment and removal;
	
(f)	 Identifying persons who may be appointed in Senior 
Management in accordance with the criteria laid 
down and recommend to the Board of Directors 
their appointment and removal;
	
(g)	 Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the Independent Director, on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
Independent Directors;
	
(h)	 To recommend to the Board on Remuneration 
payable to the Whole Time Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Senior Executives.
3.2.3 Remuneration Policy:
	
The Nomination & Remuneration policy of the Company 
is performance driven and is structured to motivate 
employees, recognize their merits & achievements and 
promote excellence in their performance.
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Policy is available on the 
website of the Company at www.heubach.com
3.2.4 Remuneration paid to the Directors:
	
The Independent Directors are remunerated by way of sitting fees for attending each meeting of the Board and Committee 
thereof. They are also paid commission on an annual basis, as and when declared, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013, read with Rules framed thereunder.
	
The details of remuneration paid/payable to the Directors for the year ended March 31, 2025 is given as under:
(H in Lakhs)
Name of Director
Sitting 
fees
Salary, benefits 
& perquisites, 
performance 
bonus, Pension & 
Other Funds etc.
Commission
Total
No. of shares 
held as on 
March 31, 2025
Mr. Ravi Kapoor
-
-
-
-
Nil
Mr. Kewal Handa
27.10
-
5.0
32.10
Nil
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
30.10
-
5.0
35.10
Nil
Mrs. Diana Dhote
29.50
-
5.0
34.50
Nil
Mr. Sambit Roy (effective November 25, 
2024)
-
113.39
-
-
Nil
Mr. Jugal Sahu
-
209.29
-
-
1,960*
	
* 1,960 Equity Shares of the Company are being held in the name of Jugal Kishore Sahu HUF of which Mr. Jugal Sahu is the Karta.
3.3.2 Terms of reference:
	
The brief terms of reference of Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee of the Board of Directors includes 
the following:
	
a.	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders 
of the Company including complaints related to 
transfer/ transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
Annual Report, non-receipt of declared dividends, 
issue of new/ duplicate certificates, general 
meetings, etc.;
	
b.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders;
	
c.	
Review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent;
	
d.	
Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices 
by the shareholders of the Company.
	
Details of Investors’ Complaints
	
The Company and MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited), 
the Share Transfer Agent attend to all grievances of 
the investors received directly or through SEBI, Stock 
Exchanges, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Registrar of 
Companies, etc.
	
The Company has retained the services of a Practising 
Company Secretary to perform audit of reconciliation 
of share capital and provide the report on quarterly 
basis. No non-compliance from established procedures 
is reported.
	
Mr. Adwait Joshi, Company Secretary, is the compliance 
officer pursuant to the requirement of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 13 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
& Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, investors’ 
grievance redressal status and the number of pending 
complaints are reported every quarter to the stock 
exchanges. There were no investor complaint pending 
as on March 31, 2025.
	
During the year under review, the Company had received 
seven complaints from Investors and all seven complaints 
were resoled during the year.
3.4	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Committee
3.4.1 Composition & Meetings:
	
The composition of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee is in conformity with the provisions of Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
96
97
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
During the year under review, 1 meeting was held on May 29, 2024. The composition and details of the meeting attended 
by the members are given below:
Name
Position held
No. of Meetings held during the 
tenure of member
Held
Attended
Mrs. Diana Dhote
Chairperson
1
1
Mr. Kewal Handa
Member
1
1
Mr. Bharath Sesha (upto August 31,2024)
Member
1
1
Mr. Sambit Roy (with effect from November 25, 2024)
Member
NA
NA
3.4.2 Terms of reference:
	
The brief terms of reference of the CSR Committee are as under:
	
a)	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the activities to 
be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of Companies Act, 2013;
	
b)	
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred to in clause (a); and
	
c)	
Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company from time to time.
3.5.	Risk Management Committee
3.5.1 Composition and Meetings:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligation & Disclosure Requirement) Regulation, 2015, the Board of Directors 
of the Company have constituted the Risk Management Committee on. During the year under review, the Risk Management 
Committee met 2 times on April 24, 2024 and October 16, 2024. The composition and details of the meeting attended by 
the members are given below:
Name
Position held
No. of Meetings held during the 
tenure of member
Held
Attended
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
Chairperson
2
2
Mr. Bharath Sesha (upto August 31,2024)
Member
1
1
Mr. Sambit Roy (with effect from November 25, 2024)
Member
-
-
Mr. Jugal Sahu
Member
2
2
Mr. Abhijit Doshi (upto September 6, 2024)
Member
2
1
Mr. Abhijit Naik
Member
2
1
	
5.	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions 
to be taken;
	
6.	
The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by 
the Risk Management Committee;
	
7.	
The Risk Management Committee shall coordinate its activities with other Committees, in instances where there is 
any overlap with activities of such Committees, as per the framework laid down by the Board of Directors.
4.	
Senior Management
	
Below is the list of Senior Management Personnel:
Name of Senior Management Personnel
Designation
Mr. Sambit Roy*
Managing Director
Mr. Jugal Sahu**
Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Ashwini Natekar***
Interim Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
Mr. Abhijit Naik#
Head of Operations
Mr. Jim Easow
Vice President, Legal & Compliance
Mr. Adwait Joshi##
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
	
*Mr. Sambit Roy was appointed as an Additional and Managing Director, based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee effective November 25, 2024. Subsequently, the shareholders approved the appointment of Mr. Sambit Roy as the Managing 
Director of the Company through Postal Ballot on January 22, 2025.
	
**Mr. Jugal Sahu has submitted his resignation from the position of Executive Director of the Company with effective from close of business 
hours on August 11, 2025. However, Mr. Sahu continues to serve as Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
	
***Ms. Ashwini Natekar ceased to be an Interim Company Secretary, Compliance Officer and Nodal Officer of the Company effective close 
of business hours July 16, 2025.
	
#Mr. Abhijit Naik ceased to be Head of Operations effective August 11, 2025.
	
##Mr. Adwait Joshi is appointed as a Company Secretary, Compliance Officer and Nodal Officer of the Company with effect from August 
01, 2025.
5.	
Subsidiary Company.
	
The Company did not have any Subsidiary Company during the year under review.
6.	
General Body Meetings
	
The details of Annual General Meetings of the Company held during preceding 3 years are as follows:
AGM
Date and Time
Venue
Special Resolutions 
Passed
65th
August 25, 2022 at 04.00 P.M.
Through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/ Other 
Audio Visual Means (OAVM)
None
66th
September 26, 2023 at 04.00 P.M.
Through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/Other 
Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’)
None
67th
September 25, 2024 at 04.00 P.M.
Through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/Other 
Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’)
None
	
During the year under review, the members have passed two resolutions through Postal Ballot in accordance with Section 
110 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, details of which 
are as below:
Particulars of resolution passed
Type of resolution 
passed
Votes (no. of shares and 
percentage)
Date of passing 
resolution*
In Favour
Against
Appointment of Mrs. Diana Dhote  
(DIN: 10558367) as an Independent  
Director of the Company
Special Resolution
1,30,33,963 
(99.93%)
9,362 
(0.07%)
June 14, 2024
Appointment of Mr. Sambit Roy (DIN: 08291664) 
as the Managing Director of the Company
Special Resolution
1,26,26,790 
(99.98%)
2,506 
(0.02%)
January 22, 2025
	
*Resolutions were deemed to have been passed on the last date specified for remote e-voting. 
3.5.2 Terms of reference:
	
The brief terms of reference of Risk Management 
Committee of the Board of Directors includes 
the following:
	
1.	
To formulate a detailed Risk Management Policy 
which shall include:
	
	
(a)	 A framework for identification of internal 
and external risks specifically faced by 
the listed entity, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, 
cyber security risks or any other risk as may be 
determined by the Committee;
	
	
(b)	 Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control of 
identified risks;
	
	
(c)	 Business continuity plan;
	
2.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes 
and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate 
risks associated with the business of the Company;
	
3.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
Risk Management Policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of Risk Management Systems;
	
4.	
To periodically review the Risk Management 
Policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
98
99
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
The Board of Directors had appointed Mr. Bhadresh Shah, Proprietor of Bhadresh Shah & Associates, Company Secretaries 
(COP 15957, ACS 23847), as a Scrutinizer to scrutinize the process of Postal Ballot / e-voting in a fair and transparent manner.
	
Whether any Special Resolution is proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot this year:
	
There is no immediate proposal for passing any Resolution through Postal Ballot.
	
Subsequent to closure of Financial Year 2024-25, the following resolutions were passed through Postal Ballot:
Particulars of resolution passed
Type of resolution 
passed
Votes (no. of shares and 
percentage)
Date of passing 
resolution*
In Favour
Against
Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Rathi  
(DIN: 00018628) as Non- Executive  
Director of the Company
Ordinary Resolution
1,36,22,791 
(99.53%)
64,514 
(0.47%)
July 06, 2025
Appointment of Mr. Amitabha Mukhopadhyay 
(DIN: 01806781) as Independent Director of the 
Company
Special Resolution
1,36,86,190 
(99.99%)
1,115 
(0.01%)
July 06, 2025
Appointment of Mr. Naresh Raisinghani  
(DIN: 00568298) as Independent  
Director of the Company
Special Resolution
1,31,11,697 
(95.79%)
5,75,608 
(4.21%)
July 06, 2025
Appointment of Mrs. Anu Wakhlu  
(DIN: 00122052) as Independent  
Director of the Company
Special Resolution
1,36,85,780 
(99.99%)
1,525 
(0.01%)
July 06, 2025
Appointment of Mr. Mandar Velankar  
(DIN: 11069055) as Non-Executive  
Director of the Company
Ordinary Resolution
1,36,22,781 
(99.53%)
64,524 
(0.47%)
July 06, 2025
review, are with the affiliates of group company operating 
worldwide. All these transactions are in the normal 
course of business and have no potential conflict with 
the interest of the Company at large and are carried out 
on an arm’s length basis.
	
The Company has not entered into any materially 
significant related party transaction that may have 
potential conflict with the interest of the Company 
at large.
	
Policy on Material Subsidiary:
	
The Company does not have any material subsidiary.
	
The Company has disclosed the Material Subsidiary Policy 
on its website and is accessible at www.heubach.com.
	
Loans and advances in the nature of loans 
to firms/companies in which directors are 
interested:
	
The Company has not given any loans or advances to 
any firm/company in which its Directors are interested 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
7.2	 Code of Conduct:
	
The Board of Directors has adopted the Code of Conduct 
for Directors and Senior Management Personnel and the 
compliance of the same is affirmed by them annually. 
In addition, code of business conduct formulated by 
Heubach group is applicable to all employees of the 
Company. The Code of Conduct is available on Company’s 
website https://www.heubach.com/heubach india/
investor-relations-india overview/policies/
	
The Managing Director has confirmed the compliance of 
code of conduct as required under Regulation 17(5) of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulation, 2015, and provided a declaration as under:
	
I, Mr. Sambit Roy, Managing Director of the Company, do 
hereby give this declaration pursuant to Regulation 17(5) 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
The Board has laid down code of conduct for all Board 
Members and Senior Management of the Company and 
the same is posted on the website of the Company i.e., 
www.heubach.com. All the Board Members and Senior 
Management personnel have affirmed compliances with 
the code for the year ended March 31, 2025.
7.3	 Prohibition of Insider Trading:
	
The Company has framed a Code of Conduct for Prohibition 
of Insider Trading as per the amended SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The code is applicable 
to all Directors and such employees of the Company who 
	
Procedure for postal ballot:
	
In compliance with Regulation 44 of the Listing 
Regulations, Sections 108, 110 of the Act, Rules 20 and 
22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, and other applicable provisions of the Act 
read with the Rules issued thereunder and General 
Circulars issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the 
Company provided remote e-voting facility to all its 
Members. The Company engaged the services of MUFG 
Intime India Private Limited (formerly known as Link 
Intime India Private Limited) the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent of the Company for the purpose of 
providing e-voting facility to all its Members for above 
postal ballot activities.
	
The postal ballot notice was sent to the members in 
electronic form at their email addresses registered with 
the depositories/RTA.
	
The Company also published notice in the newspapers 
declaring the details of completion of dispatch, e-voting 
details and other requirements in terms of the Act, read 
with the Rules issued thereunder and the Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Company had 
appointed a scrutiniser for conducting the postal ballot 
process in a fair and transparent manner. The scrutiniser 
submitted his consolidated report to the Chairman and 
the voting results were announced by the Chairman by 
placing the same along with the scrutiniser’s report on 
the Company’s website, besides being communicated to 
the stock exchanges.
	
The results were displayed on the website of the 
Company at www.heubach.com and communicated to 
the Stock Exchanges, Depositories, and Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agents. The resolutions passed by the 
postal ballot were deemed to have been passed on the 
last date of e-voting period.
7.	
Disclosures
7.1	 Related party transactions:
	
Related party transactions have been disclosed under 
Note 40 of Significant accounting policies & notes forming 
part of the financial statements of Audited Accounts 
in accordance with ‘Indian Accounting Standard 24’ 
and pursuant to Regulation 23 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015. A statement in summary form of transactions 
with related parties in the ordinary course of business is 
periodically placed before the Audit Committee for review 
and recommendation to the Board for their approval.
	
The Company has formulated a policy on dealing with 
Material Related Party Transactions. The Policy is 
available on the website of the Company i.e. https://
www.heubach.com/heubach india/investor-relations-
india overview/policies/
	
None of the transactions with related parties were in 
conflict with the interest of the Company. Company’s 
major related party transactions, during the year under 
have access to unpublished price sensitive information 
relating to the Company. Transaction for dealing or trading 
in the prescribed volume of the security of the Company 
during the prescribed time requires prior approval from 
the Company.
	
The Company Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
Designated Employees and other Insiders are informed 
about closure of the Trading Window prior to dissemination 
of price sensitive information. The said code of conduct 
is available on the Company's website at www.heubach.
com.
7.4	 Disclosure of Accounting Treatment:
	
The Financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 are prepared in conformity with 
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS).
7.5	 Proceeds from public issues, rights issues, 
preferential issues, etc.:
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
raised any proceeds through public issues, rights issues, 
preferential issues, etc.
7.6	 Management:
	
Management Discussion and Analysis report forms part 
of this Annual Report.
	
There were no material financial and commercial 
transactions by Senior Management, where they have 
personal interest that may have a potential conflict with 
the interests of the Company at large.
7.7	 Compliance:
	
The Company has complied with all regulatory 
requirements. No penalties/strictures were imposed on 
the Company by Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory 
authority on any matter related to capital market during 
last three years.
	
The audited financial results for the quarter and year 
ended March 31, 2025 of the Company were submitted to 
the stock exchanges after the due date prescribed under 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. The Company had intimated in advance 
to the BSE and NSE regarding the delay in submission of 
the said results in accordance with Regulation 33 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. As disclosed in said intimations, the 
delay in filing of financial results of the Company was 
attributable to reasons including the pending statutory 
audit. The Company has made payment of regulatory 
penalties imposed by BSE and NSE under applicable laws. 
Further, the Company has submitted the audited financial 
results for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2025 on 
July 16, 2025.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
100
101
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
7.8	 Whistle Blower Policy:
	
The Company has adopted to Whistle Blower Policy 
for employees to report to the management about the 
unethical behavior, fraud or violation of Company’s 
code of conduct. The mechanism provides for adequate 
safeguard to the victimized employees and spreads the 
way to curb those practices being followed in the office 
premises. None of the personnel of the Company has 
been denied access to the Audit Committee.
7.9	 Commodity Risk and Hedging Activities:
	
Specialty Chemical industry is exposed to high risk of 
volatile prices, stringent government regulations and 
availability of raw materials/traded goods. Company 
mitigates / hedges the said risks by its sustainable 
strategy consisting of structured approach to reduce cost 
and controls price fluctuation by quarterly price contracts, 
volume bundling and deployment of new vendors.
7.10	Agreements binding under clause 5A of para A 
of part A of schedule III
	
None of the shareholders, promoters, promoter group 
entities, related parties, directors, key managerial 
personnel and employees of the Company or of its holding 
and associate company, have entered into agreements as 
specified in clause 5A of para A of part A of schedule III 
to SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
8.	
Means of Communication
	
All important information relating to the Company, its 
performance, shareholding pattern, quarterly results, 
press releases and other information as per the SEBI 
Regulations are regularly posted on Company’s website 
and also forwarded to the Stock Exchanges. The 
quarterly, half-yearly and annual Financial results of 
the Company are published in newspapers like Business 
Standard and Mumbai Lakshadeep, circulating in the local 
area. These results are also available on the websites of 
the Company, BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited.
9.	
General Shareholder Information
9.1	 Annual General Meeting:
	
Day, Date and Time:
	
Mode: The 68th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the 
Company will be held through Video Conference (VC)/ 
Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) on Monday, September 
29, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. IST.
	
As per the applicable circulars issued by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India ("SEBI") and The Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs ("MCA"), the companies are allowed 
to conduct the AGM through Video Conferencing ("VC") 
or Other Audio Visual Means ("OAVM") on or before 
	
The shareholders having physical shares are requested to 
ensure that any correspondence for change of address, 
change of bank mandates etc. should be signed by the 
first named shareholder and supported by the documents 
such as Aadhar Card, Telephone or Electricity Bill in the 
name of shareholder or a family member along with a 
copy of PAN card.
	
In case shares of the Company are held in electronic 
form (i.e., in dematerialized form), all communications 
concerning rematerialization of shares, transfer and 
transmission, dividends, change of address, furnishing 
of alterations in bank account details, nominations, ECS 
30th September, 2025, and also copies of the financial 
statements (including Report of Board of Directors, 
Auditor's Report and / or other documents required to 
be attached therewith), and such statements including 
the Notice of AGM are being sent only in electronic mode 
to Shareholders whose e-mail address is registered 
with the Company / Registrar and Transfer Agent 
("RTA") or Depository Participant(s) ("DP"). As per the 
applicable circulars issued by SEBI and MCA, 67th AGM 
of the Company was conducted through VC / OAVM on 
September 25, 2024.
9.2	 Financial Calendar:
	
•	
Financial Year April 1 to March 31.
	
Proposed Calendar for FY 2025-2026
1st Quarter Results
August, 11,2025
2nd Quarter Results
Within 45 days of the quarter and 
half year ended September 30, 
2025
3rd Quarter Results
Within 45 days of the quarter and 
nine months ended December 31, 
2025
Annual Results
Within 60 days of the quarter and 
year ended March 31, 2025
Annual General 
Meeting
September 29, 2025
9.3	 Listing of Shares:
	
Shares of the Company are listed on BSE Ltd. (BSE) 
under Stock ID ‘506390’ and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (NSE) under the code ‘HEUBACHIND. The 
Company has paid the listing fees up to March 31, 2026, 
to both the Stock Exchanges.
9.4	 Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the 
Company: L24110MH1956PLC010806
9.5	 Address for correspondence:
	
A)	 Share Transfer Agents:
	
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known 
as Link Intime India Private Limited)
	
	
C 101, 247 Park, L B S Marg, Vikhroli (West),
	
	
Mumbai - 400 083, Maharashtra
	
	
Tel: 022 - 49186000
	
	
E-mail id.: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
	
	
Contact Person: Mr. Devang Mehta
	
	
E-mail ID for Investor Services:
	
	
investor.relations_india@heubach.com
	
B)	 Company’s Registered Office:
	
	
Heubach Colorants India Limited
	
	
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor
	
	
D-33, MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area
	
	
Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705 India
	
	
Tel: 022 20874405
credit of dividend amount to shareholders’ bank account 
or other inquiries should be addressed only to the 
Depository Participant (DP) with whom demat account 
is maintained, quoting client ID number and not to the 
Company or the R&T Agent. This is because once the 
shares are dematerialized the data is maintained by the 
DPs and the Company cannot alter the details and has to 
act on the basis of the details downloaded from NSDL or 
CDSL as the case may be.
	
For any assistance from the Company, members may 
contact Mr. Adwait Joshi, Company Secretary, at the 
registered office of the Company.
9.6	 Shareholding pattern as on March 31, 2025:
Sr. 
No. Category
No. of 
Shares held
% of holding
A
Promoters’ Holding
Foreign Promoters (names as appearing in Shareholding Pattern)
(a) Colorants International AG
84,39,385
36.56
(b) EBITO Chemiebeteiligungen AG
41,09,426
17.80
Sub-Total (A)
1,25,48,811
54.36
B
Institutional Investors
(a) Mutual Funds
10,53,356
4.56
(b) Alternate Investment Funds
5,122
0.02
(c) Financial Institutions / Banks
10,877
0.05
(d) Insurance Companies
96,551
0.42
(e) Foreign Portfolio Investors
264852
1.15
(g) Foreign Institutional Investors
0
0
(h) Foreign bank
878
0.00
Sub-Total (B)
14,31,636
6.20
C
Others
Bodies Corporate
5,78,250
2.51
Non-Resident Indians / Trusts
2,33,894
0.97
Indian Public
64,11,643
27.79
Foreign Nationals
450
0
Government Companies
0
0
Investor Education and Protection Fund
1,94,900
0.84
NBFCs Registered with RBI
12,85,357
5.57
Key Managerial Personnel
1,960
0.00
Other
3,94,897
1.76
Sub-Total (C)
91,01,351
39.44
D
Total Public Shareholding (B+C)
1,05,32,987
45.64
Total (A+D)
2,30,81,798
100
	
2,28,47,628 equity shares of the Company are held in dematerialized form constituting 98.98% of the paid up capital as 
on March 31, 2025. The total number of shareholders as on March 31, 2025 is 41,594.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
102
103
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
9.7	 Details of Members holding > 1 % of the paid up capital of the Company:
Sr 
No
Name of the Shareholder
As at 31-March-2024
As at 31-March-2025
No. of shares
%
No. of shares
%
1
Colorants International AG
84,39,385
36.56
84,39,385
36.56
2
Ebito Chemiebeteiligungen AG
41,09,426
17.80
41,09,426
17.80
3
Rajasthan Global Securities Private Limited
Nil
Nil
11,80,340
5.11
4
Quant Mutual Fund - Quant Manufacturing Fund
3,35,241
1.45
10,53,176
4.56
9.8	 Distribution of shareholdings as of March 31, 2025
No. of equity shares held
Shareholders
Equity Shares held
No. of 
Shareholders
%
No. of shares
%
1 – 3000
41,325
99.36
55,85,103
24.18
3001 – 5000
135
0.31
5,38,775
2.32
5001 and above 
134
0.30
1,69,57,920
73.46
Total
41,594
100.00
2,30,81,798
100.00
10.	 Additional Information
10.1 Unpaid/Unclaimed Dividend Shares:
	
In terms of the provisions of Section 124 & 125 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Investor Education and 
Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer 
and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), the Company 
is obliged to transfer dividends which remain Unpaid 
or Unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date 
of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account to the credit of 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’) 
established by the Central Government.
	
Further, in addition to the Unpaid or Unclaimed Dividend 
required to be transferred by the Company to IEPF, equity 
shares relating to such Unclaimed/Unpaid Dividend and 
lying unpaid / unclaimed for seven consecutive years, or 
more are also required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Suspense Account (‘IEPF 
Suspense Account’).
	
In accordance with the requirements as set out in the 
IEPF Rules, the Company has transferred 23,676 shares 
to IEPF Suspense Account during the year ended March 
31, 2025.
	
Members hereby informed that the 7 years period 
pertaining to Dividends for the various financial years will 
expire as below; and thereafter the amount standing to 
the credit in the said account and the shares in respect 
of such unclaimed dividend will be transferred to the 
‘Investor Education and Protection Fund’ of the Central 
Government. Members are therefore requested to encash 
the dividend at the earliest.
Financial Year / 
period
Date of 
Declaration
Date of completion 
of seven years
2017-18 (Final)
09.08.2018
14.09.2025
2018-19 (Interim) 01.11.2018
07.12.2025
2018-19 (Final)
08.08.2019
13.09.2026
2020-21
(First Interim)
11.07.2020
17.08.2027
2019-20 (Final)
20.08.2020
26.09.2027
2020-21
(Second Interim)
12.02.2021
20.03.2028
2020-21(Final)
12.08.2021
17.09.2028
	
Please note that no claim shall lie against the Company 
in respect of the unclaimed dividend amount and equity 
shares transferred to IEPF, pursuant to IEPF Rules. 
Shareholders can however claim both the unclaimed 
dividend amount and the equity shares transferred to 
IEPF Suspense Account from IEPF Authority by making 
an Application in Form IEPF-5 online and sending the 
physical copy of the same duly signed (as per registered 
signature) along with requisite documents enumerated 
in the said Form IEPF-5 to the Company at its registered 
office or to Link Intime for verification of the claim.
9.9	 Names of Depositories for dematerialization 
of equity shares:
Name of the Depository
ISIN No.
National Securities Depositories
Limited (NSDL)
INE492A01029
Central Depository Services
(India) Limited (CDSL)
INE492A01029
	
Trading in equity shares of the Company is permitted only 
in dematerialized form.
9.10 ADRs/GDRs/Warrants:
	
The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants 
or any other convertible instruments.
9.11 Plant Locations:
	
The Company’s current manufacturing facilities are 
located at:
	
113/114, M.I.D.C. Industrial Area, A.V.P.O. Dhatav, Taluka 
Roha, District Raigad – 402 116 Maharashtra
	
Plot/Phase No. 378/2/2, Durgapura Colony Road, 
Birlagram, Nagda – 456 331 Madhya Pradesh
	
Kudikadu, SIPCOT Post, Cuddalore – 607 005 Tamil Nadu
9.12 Credit Ratings:
	
During the year under review the Company had not 
subjected itself for any Credit Rating.
9.13 Certificate from Company Secretary:
	
A Certificate from M/s. J R Ahuja & Co., Practicing 
Company Secretaries, that none of the Directors on the 
Board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Directors of 
Companies by the SEBI and/or Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, or any such statutory authorities, is annexed at 
the end of this report.
9.14 Fees paid to Statutory Auditors:
	
The Company had paid the Statutory Auditors, in 
connection of the work related to Audit carried out 
by them and other activities as approved by the Audit 
Committee, for the Financial year 2024-25, as below:
Nature of Engagement
FY 2024-25
(in Lakhs)
As auditors
23.60
For other services
4.32
For reimbursement of expenses
1.41
Total
29.33
9.15 Recommendation of Committee:
	
There were no recommendations of any Committee 
of the Board which is not accepted by the Board 
during the Financial year 2024-25. All the Committee 
recommendations have been duly accepted by the Board 
after deliberations.
9.16 Instances of Sexual Harassment of Women:
	
The particulars of instances of sexual harassment of 
women at workplace of Heubach is as follows:
Number of complaints filed during the 
Financial year
Nil
Number of complaints disposed of during the 
Financial year
Nil
Number of complaints pending as on end of 
the financial year
Nil
9.17 Utilization of funds raised through 
Preferential allotment or Qualified 
Institutions Placement:
	
The Company has not allotted any specified security to 
anyone on Preferential basis or to Qualified Institutional 
Buyers in terms of Regulation 32 (7A) of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015.
10.2 Detail of Unclaimed Shares:
	
The detail of unclaimed shares is given below:
Aggregate number of shareholders 
and the outstanding unclaimed 
shares as at end of the year
248 Shareholders 
33,819 Shares
Number of shareholders who 
approached the issuer for transfer of 
unclaimed shares during the year
4 Shareholders
Number of unclaimed shares were 
transferred during the year
377
Number of shareholders involved in 
IEPF 4
118
Number of shares involved in IEPF 4
23,676
Aggregate number of shareholders 
and the outstanding unclaimed 
shares as at end of the year
126 Shareholders 
9,766 Shares
	
The voting rights on the outstanding unclaimed shares 
shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares 
claims the shares.
10.3 Bank Mandate:
	
Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) is a method of 
payment of dividend whereby the amount due to investors 
can directly be credited into their bank accounts, without 
having to issue paper instruments. It is fast and there 
is no scope for loss of dividend warrants in transit and 
possible fraudulent encashment.
	
In case of shares held in physical form the bank details 
may be sent to the Registrar & Share Transfer Agents. 
In case of shares held in demat form, the bank details 
provided by the Depository Participant (DP) with whom 
the demat account is maintained will be applicable. All 
previous instructions given by you to the Company in 
respect of ECS and bank details will stand superseded 
by the ECS details recorded with your DP.
10.4 Nomination Facility:
	
A member can nominate a person who shall have rights 
to shares and/or amount payable in respect of shares 
registered in his name in the event of his death. The 
nomination form can be obtained from the Company’s 
Share Transfer Agent or downloaded from the website of 
the Company at www.heubach.com.
10.5 Consolidation of folios and avoidance of 
multiple folios:
	
Members having multiple folios are requested to 
consolidate their folios into single folio and for this 
purpose send request along with the original certificates 
to the Share Transfer Agent specifying the folio number 
under which they desire to hold the shares.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
104
105
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
10.6 Communication:
	
In order to save the environment and in order to initiate 
e-communication, the Company requests all shareholders 
to register their email address with the depository, in case 
of shares held in demat form or with the Share Transfer 
Agents for shares held in physical form. This will facilitate 
the Company and Share Transfer Agents to send the 
communication through electronic mail which is faster 
and cost effective.
10.7 Non-Mandatory requirements:
	
The status of compliance with non-mandatory 
recommendations under Part E, Schedule II of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 is provided below:
	
10.7.1 The Board: The listed entity may appoint separate 
persons to the post of the Chairperson and the Managing 
Director or the Chief Executive Officer, such that the 
Chairperson shall -
	
(a)	 be a non-executive director; and
	
(b)	 not be related to the Managing Director or the Chief 
Executive Officer as per the definition of the term 
“relative” defined under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Company had a Non-
Executive Chairperson.
	
10.7.2 Shareholders’ Rights: As the quarterly and 
half yearly, financial performances are published in the 
newspapers and are also posted on the Company’s 
website, the same are not being sent to the shareholders.
	
10.7.3 Modified Opinion(s) in the Audit Report and 
Audit Qualifications: There is a modified opinion in the 
Audit Report and the Company’s financial statement for 
the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
The Auditor's Report contains the following Qualification 
for the period under review:
	
We draw your attention to the following paragraph 
included in the audit report of the Company dated July 
16, 2025, and reproduced as under:
	
“We draw attention to Note 16 which describes that the 
Board of Directors is assessing the effect on the financial 
results with respect to transfer of certain items of 
property, plant and equipment without due approval from 
the Board of Directors. Pending Management review and 
reconciliation, and in absence of an appropriate valuation 
of the aforesaid items, we are unable to comment on the 
consequential effects, if any, on the financial results.
	
Management Reply to the Statutory Auditors’ 
Qualifications –
	
The management is assessing the appropriate course 
of action to evaluate the basis of valuation of certain 
items of property, plant and equipment. The Board of 
directors are unable to quantify the impact of aforesaid 
qualification on the financial statements of the Company 
as the management is evaluating various legal options 
to determine the appropriate course of action. As on the 
date of this report, the final resolution and its effects 
are pending.
	
10.7.4 Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal 
Auditor reports to the Audit Committee.
11.	 MD/CFO Certification
	
The Managing Director have provided annual certificate 
on financial reporting and internal controls to the Board 
pursuant to Regulation 33 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The 
said certificate was placed and taken on record at the 
Board Meeting held on July 16, 2025. They have also 
provided quarterly certificates on Financial results while 
placing the Financial results before the Board.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Rajesh Rathi	
 Sambit Roy
Chairman	
 Managing Director
DIN (00018628)	
DIN (08291664)
Navi Mumbai,
August 11, 2025
Certificate of Practicing Company Secretary on Corporate 
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CERTIFICATE
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para E of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To:
The Members of
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33 MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area,
Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705, India
I have examined the compliance of conditions of corporate governance by Heubach Colorants India Limited ("the Company"), 
for the year ended on 31st March,2025, as stipulated in relevant provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time, (hereinafter collectively referred 
to as "SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015").
The compliance of conditions of corporate governance is the responsibility of the management. My examination was limited to 
the review of procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions 
of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the explanations given to us, I certify that the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the provisions as specified in SEBI Listing Regulations, 
2015, as applicable.
I further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For RAJESH KARUNAKARAN & CO.,
COMPANY SECRETARIES
RAJESH KARUNAKARAN
COMPANY SECRETARY
FCS No. 7441/CP No. 6581
UDIN- F007441G000976838
Peer Review Certificate no. 1260/2021 dated 28th June, 2021
Pune, 11th August, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
106
107
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Certificate from Practicing Company Secretary
To
The Members,
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33,
MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar,
Navi Mumbai 400705 India
Sub: Certificate from a Company Secretary in Practice pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Clause 10(i) of Part C of Schedule V 
to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
This is to certify, on the basis of records maintained by Heubach Colorants India Limited (the Company) and the data available 
at the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) website and also declarations received from the following Directors of the Company, 
that none of the directors on the Board of the Company, for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2025, have been debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Board/MCA or any such statutory authority:
Sr. 
No
DIN
Name of the Director
Appointed on
1
00056826
Mr. Kewal Kundanlal Handa
05-11-2015
2
00920608
Mr. Sunirmal Talukdar
05-11-2015
3
01983066
Mr. Bharath Ramraman Sesha*
23-04-2022
4
01761752
Mr. Ravi Brijmohan Kapoor***
29-11-2023
5
02629782
Mr. Jugal Kishore Sahu****
03-02-2023
6
08291664
Mr. Sambit Roy**
25-11-2024
7
10558367
Mrs. Diana Milind Dhote
01-04-2024
*Mr. Bharath Ramraman Sesha resigned as Managing Director effective close of business hours on August 31, 2024
**Mr. Sambit Roy was appointed as a Managing Director effective November 25, 2024.
***Mr. Ravi Kapoor resigned as a Chairman and Non-Executive Director effective close of business hours on July 16, 2025.
****Mr. Jugal Kishor Sahu resigned as an Executive Director effective close of business hours on August 11, 2025.
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment and continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is 
neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For J.R. Ahuja & Co.
Jagdish Ahuja,
Proprietor
Date: August 11, 2025	
UDIN: F009079G000973504
Place: Mumbai	
Peer Review No: 1877/2022
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Heubach Colorants India Limited
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Qualified Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of 
Heubach Colorants India Limited (“the Company”), which 
comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the 
Statement of Profit and Loss, including Other Comprehensive 
Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of 
Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial 
statements, including material accounting policy information 
and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
the “financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, except for the effects of the 
matters described in the Basis for Qualified opinion section 
of our report, the aforesaid financial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act’) 
in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed 
under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (“Ind AS”) and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2025, and profit 
(including other comprehensive income), changes in equity 
and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Qualified Opinion
We draw attention to Note 50 which describes that the Board 
of Directors is assessing the effect on the financial statements 
with respect to transfer of certain items of property, plant and 
equipment without due approval from the Board of Directors. 
Pending Management review and reconciliation, and in 
absence of an appropriate valuation of the aforesaid items, 
we are unable to comment on the consequential effects, if any, 
on the financial statements.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements in 
accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified 
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements’ 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and 
the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the 
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained 
by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
qualified opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Qualified 
Opinion section, we have determined the matters described 
below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in 
our report.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters was addressed in our audit
1
Assessment of contingencies and provision relating 
to ongoing litigations for Direct Tax, Indirect tax and 
other matters
(Refer notes 8, 22 and 35 to the financial statements)
The Company has various ongoing Direct tax, 
Indirect tax and other matters under litigation.
The assessment of the likely outcome of the tax 
and other matters and related outflow of resources 
that are probable, involve significant management 
judgment and uncertainty of assumptions, since 
they are based on the application and interpretation 
of law.
We have considered this to be a key audit 
matter  because of the significant impact on 
the financial statements and uncertainty of the 
possible outcomes.
Our audit procedures in respect of this area included but are not 
limited to following:
1.	 Obtained a detailed understanding of the management’s process 
for determining provisions and contingent liabilities pertaining to 
tax claims and other litigation disputes.
2.	 Verified the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of 
controls in respect of assessment of direct tax, indirect tax, other 
matters and provisions related thereon, if any.
3.	 Obtained the details and understood the nature of tax positions 
and litigations pending against the Company by reading the 
minutes of various meetings and discussing the developments 
during the year for litigations with the Management, the Audit 
Committee and management expert for the future course of 
action by the Company.
4.	 Read the orders received by the Company from the tax authorities 
and opinions sought from the management’s experts.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
109
Annual Report 2024-25
108
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters was addressed in our audit
5.	 Involved auditor’s tax experts to assist us in the assessment of 
the possible outcome of certain cases, evaluation of underlying 
assumptions in estimating the tax provisions and related 
expenses thereon.
6.	 Evaluated the evidence supporting the management’s judgment 
about possible outcomes and the reasonableness of the estimates 
made by them.
7.	 Assessed and validated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures in the financial statements in compliance with Ind AS 
37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and 
Ind AS 12 Income Tax.
Information Other than the Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other 
information. The other information comprises the annual 
report but does not include the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be 
made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 
responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance under SA 720 
‘The Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to Other Information’. 
As described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion section above, 
the Board of Directors is assessing the effect on the financial 
statements with respect to transfer of certain items of property, 
plant and equipment without due approval from the Board of 
Directors. Pending Management review and reconciliation, and 
in absence of an appropriate valuation of the aforesaid items, 
we are unable to comment on the consequential effects, if 
any, on the financial statements. Accordingly, we are unable 
to conclude whether or not the other information is materially 
misstated with respect to this matter.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charge with Governance for the Financial 
Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these financial statements that give a true 
and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, 
changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including the Accounting Standards specified under section 
133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the financial statement that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Management and 
Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements.
We give in “Annexure A” a detailed description of Auditor’s 
responsibilities for Audit of the Financial Statements.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the 
Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement on the matters 
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the 
extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
	
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as 
it appears from our examination of those books, 
including daily back-ups of books of accounts and 
other books and papers maintained in electronic 
mode, except for the matters stated in the paragraph 
2(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g). Further, 
the servers for the back-ups of books of account and 
other books and papers of the Company maintained 
in electronic mode are physically located outside 
India explained in Note 52 to the financial statements.
	
(c)	 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss including other comprehensive income, the 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement 
of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
	
(d)	 Except, for the matter described in the Basis of 
Qualified Opinion section above, in our opinion, 
the aforesaid financial statements comply with 
the Indian Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act.
	
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors are disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 
(2) of the Act.
	
(f)	 The reservation relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in paragraph 2(b) above on reporting 
under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 2(h)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g).
	
(g)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of 
the Company and the operating effectiveness 
of such  controls, refer to our separate Report in 
“Annexure C”.
	
(h)	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in 
its financial statements – Refer Note 35 to the 
financial statements;
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts for which there were 
any material foreseeable losses.
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Company.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
110
111
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
iv.	
1	
The Management has represented that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the Company 
to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
2	
The Management has represented, that, to 
the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds 
have been received by the Company from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Funding Parties), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
as on the date of this audit report, that the 
Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
3	
Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, and 
according to the information and explanations 
provided to us by the Management in this 
regard nothing has come to our notice that has 
caused us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as 
provided under (1) and (2) above, contain any 
material mis-statement.
	
v.	
The Company has neither declared nor paid any 
dividend during the year.
	
vi.	
Based on examination which included test checks, 
the Company has used an accounting software 
for maintaining its books of account (managed 
and maintained by a third-party software service 
provider) which has a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility except that no audit trail feature 
was enabled at the database level in respect of an 
accounting software to log any direct data changes.
	
	
Further, where enabled, audit trail feature has been 
operated for all relevant transactions recorded in 
the accounting software. Also, during the course of 
our audit, we did not come across any instance of 
audit trail feature being tampered with in respect 
of such accounting software. Additionally, the 
audit trail of prior year, has been preserved by the 
Company as per the statutory requirements for 
record retention to the extent it was enabled and 
recorded in the previous year as explained in Note 
51 to the financial statements.
	
3.	
In our opinion, according to information, explanations 
given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company 
to its directors is within the limits laid prescribed 
under Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act 
and the rules thereunder.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 151016
Date: July 16, 2025
UDIN: 25151016BMLNMT2394
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ANNEXURE A 
To the Independent Auditor’s Report on even date on the Financial Statements of Heubach Colorants India Limited
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	y
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and 
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than 
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.
	y
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we 
are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether 
the company has adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
	y
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management and Board of Directors.
	y
Conclude on the appropriateness of management and Board 
of Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a 
material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
	y
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determined those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 and therefore, the key audit matters. 
We described these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 151016
Date: July 16, 2025
UDIN: 25151016BMLNMT2394
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
112
113
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE B 
To Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Financial Statements of Heubach Colorants India Limited for 
the year ended March 31, 2025
[Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditors’ Report]
i.	
(a)	 A	
Except that, as explained in “Basis for Qualified 
Opinion” paragraph of the main audit report in 
relation to transfer of certain items of property, 
plant and equipment without due approval 
from the board of directors, the Company 
has maintained proper records showing full 
particulars, including quantitative details and 
situation of property, plant and equipment and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets.
	
(a)	 B	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	 All the Property, Plant and Equipment and right of 
use assets have not been physically verified by the 
management during the year but there is a regular 
programme of verification, which, in our opinion, 
is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets. No material 
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination 
of the records of the Company, the title deeds of 
immovable properties (other than properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) as 
disclosed in the financial statements, are held in the 
name of the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company has not revalued its property, 
plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) 
and intangible assets during the year. Accordingly, 
the provisions stated under clause 3(i)(d) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(e)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no proceeding has been initiated or pending 
against the Company for holding benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988, as amended and rules made thereunder. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 3(i)
(e) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
ii.	
(a)	 The inventory (excluding stocks with third parties 
and stocks-in-transit) has been physically verified 
by the management during the year. In respect 
of inventory lying with third parties, these have 
substantially been confirmed by them and in respect 
of goods in transit, the goods have been received 
subsequent to the year end. No discrepancies were 
noticed in respect of such confirmations. In our 
opinion, the frequency, coverage and procedure 
of such verification is reasonable and appropriate, 
having regard to the size of the Company and the 
nature of its operations. The discrepancies noticed 
on physical verification of inventory as compared to 
book records were not 10% or more in aggregate for 
each class of inventory.
	
(b)	 The Company has not been sanctioned any working 
capital limits during the year on the basis of security 
of current assets. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
iii.	
(a)	 According to the information explanation provided 
to us, the Company has not provided any guarantee 
or security, or granted any loans or advances in 
the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, to 
companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or 
any other parties. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(iii) (a), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on the audit procedures performed 
by us, we are of the opinion that the terms and 
conditions in relation to investments made and terms 
and conditions in relation to investments made are 
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
iv.	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us, there are no loans, guarantees, and security in respect 
of which provisions of sections 185 and 186 of the Act, 
are applicable and accordingly, the requirement to report 
under clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company. In respect of the investments made by the 
Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section 185 
and 186 of the Act have been complied with.
v.	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company has neither accepted any deposits 
from the public nor any amounts which are deemed to be 
deposits, within the meaning of the provisions of Sections 
73 to 76 of the Act and the rules framed there under. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report under clause 3(iv) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
vi.	
Pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government of 
India, the Company is required to maintain cost records as 
specified under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect of its 
products/ services. We have broadly reviewed the same, 
and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed 
accounts and records have been made and maintained. We have not, however, made a detailed examination of the records 
with a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii.	
(a)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and the records examined by us, in our opinion, undisputed 
statutory dues including goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, 
service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess, and other statutory dues have been regularly 
deposited by the Company with appropriate authorities in all cases during the year.
	
	
No undisputed amounts payable in respect of these statutory dues were outstanding as at March 31, 2025, for a 
period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanation given to us and the records examined by us, dues relating to goods and 
services tax, sales tax, value added tax, excise duty and service tax which have not been deposited as on March 31, 
2025, on account of any dispute, are as follows:
Name of the 
statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount 
Demanded 
K in Lakhs
Amount Paid 
K in Lakhs
Period to which the amount 
relates
Forum where 
dispute is pending
Goods & 
Services Tax, 
Central Sales 
Tax, Local 
Sales Tax & 
Value Added 
Tax Liability
Goods & 
Services Tax 
Act, Sales 
Tax and 
Value added 
tax liability 
including 
interest and 
penalty, as 
applicable
9.93
Nil
From F.Y. 1996-97 to F.Y. 1998-
99,
F.Y. 2019-20
F.Y. 2020-21
State Tax Officer
121.67
53.31
F.Y.2004-05
Sales Tax Appellate 
Tribunal
402.09
73.66
F.Y.2001-02,
F.Y.2008-09,
F.Y. 2015-16,
F.Y. 2016-17,
F.Y. 2017-18 and
F.Y. 2020-21
Appellate Authority - 
up to Commissioner’s 
level
50.56
20.29
F.Y. 2014-15 and
F.Y. 2018-19
Assistant 
Commissioner
47.67
2.45
F.Y. 2019-20
Deputy 
Commissioner of 
State Tax
511.49
25.64
F.Y. 2018-19
Assistant 
Commissioner
The Central 
Excise Act, 
1944
Excise duty 
including 
interest and 
penalty, as 
applicable
564.77
6.05
From F.Y. 2000-01, F.Y. 2006-07,
F.Y.1994-97 and
F.Y. 2016-17
CESTAT
17.96
Nil
FY 2017-18
Appellate Authority - 
up to Commissioner’s 
level
4.56
Nil
F.Y.1995-96 and F.Y. 2001-03
Authority - up to 
Commissioner’s level
Service Tax 
under Finance 
Act, 1994
Service Tax 
including 
interest and 
penalty, as 
applicable
1.88
Nil
F.Y.1996-97 and from F.Y. 2006-
07 to
F.Y. 2009-10
Authority - up to
Commissioner’s level
555.28
12.10
F.Y. 2016-17
Appellate Authority 
- up to
Commissioner’s level
0.52
Nil
F.Y. 2002-03 and F.Y. 2003-04
CESTAT
2,548.78
Nil
F.Y. 2016-17
Service Tax – High 
Court, Mumbai
	
	
There are no dues relating to employees’ state insurance, income-tax, duty of customs, cess, and other statutory 
dues which have not been deposited on account of any dispute.
ANNEXURE B To Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Financial Statements 
of Heubach Colorants India Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
114
115
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
viii.	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, there are no transaction which are not recorded 
in the books of account which have been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in Income-tax 
Assessment under the Income Tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, 
the requirement to report as stated under clause 3(viii) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
ix.	
(a)	 The Company does not have any loans or borrowings 
or interest thereon due to any lenders during the 
year. Accordingly, the requirement to report under 
clause 3(ix)(a) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we 
report that the Company has not been declared 
wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
	
(c)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations provided to us, no money was raised 
by way of term loans. Accordingly, the requirement 
to report under clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanation 
provided to us, there are no funds raised during the 
year. Accordingly, the requirement to report under 
clause 3(ix)(d) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(e)	 The Company does not have any subsidiary, 
associate, or joint venture. Accordingly, requirement 
to report under clause 3(ix)(e) of the order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(f)	 The Company does not have any subsidiary, 
associate, or joint venture. Accordingly, the 
requirement to report under clause 3(ix)(f) of the 
order is not applicable to the Company.
x.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
explanation given to us, the Company did not raise 
any money by way of initial public offer or further 
public offer (including debt instruments) during 
the year. Accordingly, the reporting requirement 
under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of shares 
or convertible debentures (fully, partly, or optionally 
convertible) during the year. Accordingly, the 
requirements to report under clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	 Based on our examination of the books and records 
of the Company and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, we report that no 
fraud by the Company or no material fraud on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during 
the year in the course of our audit, except that, 
for transfer of certain items of property, plant and 
equipment without due approval from the Board of 
Directors as explained in “Basis for Qualified Opinion” 
paragraph of the main audit report, we are unable to 
comment on the reporting requirements prescribed 
under this clause.
	
(b)	 During the year no report under Section 143(12) of 
the Act, has been filed by cost auditor or secretarial 
auditor or by us in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under 
Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 with the Central Government.
	
(c)	 We have taken into consideration the whistle blower 
complaints received by the Company during the year 
while determining the nature, timing, and extent of 
audit procedures.
xii.	
The Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(xii)(a) to (c) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, transactions with the related parties are in 
compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act, where 
applicable and details of such transactions have been 
disclosed in the financial statements as required by the 
applicable accounting standards.
ANNEXURE B To Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Financial Statements 
of Heubach Colorants India Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Contd.)
xiv.	 (a)	 In our opinion and based on our examination, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	 We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till the date of our audit report, for 
the period under audit.
xv.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us, and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, in our opinion during the year the Company 
has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its 
directors or persons connected with its directors and 
accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xv) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	 The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45 IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 
(2 of 1934) and accordingly, the requirements to 
report under clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking 
Financial or Housing Finance activities during the 
year and accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3 (xvi)(b) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(c)	 The Company is not a Core investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by Reserve 
Bank of India. Accordingly, the requirement to report 
under clause 3 (xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(d)	 The Group (as defined in the Core Investment 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does 
not have more than one Core Investment Company 
as a part of its group. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xvii.	 Based on the overall review of financial statements, the 
Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
financial year and in the immediately preceding financial 
year. Accordingly, the requirement to report under clause 
3(xvii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of the financial ratios (as disclosed in 
Note 47 to the financial statements), ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, other information accompanying 
the financial statements, our knowledge of the Board 
of Directors and management plans and based on our 
examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, 
nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to 
believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the 
date of the audit report that Company is not capable of 
meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet 
as and when they fall due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not 
an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. 
We further state that our reporting is based on the facts 
up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, 
will get discharged by the Company as and when they 
fall due.
xx.	 (a)	 In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no 
unspent amounts that are required to be transferred 
to a Fund as specified in Schedule VII of the Act as 
disclosed in Note 38 to the financial statements.
	
(b)	 There are no ongoing projects and accordingly 
reporting under Clause 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial 
statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the 
said Clause has been included in the report.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 151016
Date: July 16, 2025
UDIN: 25151016BMLNMT2394
ANNEXURE B To Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Financial Statements 
of Heubach Colorants India Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
116
117
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE C 
To the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the Financial Statements of Heubach Colorants India Limited
[Referred to in paragraph 2(g) under ‘Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditors’ 
Report of even date to the Members of Heubach Colorants 
India Limited on the Financial Statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 
143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements of Heubach Colorants India Limited 
(“the Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with 
our audit of the financial statements of the Company for the 
year ended on that date.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company, including has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements were operating effectively as 
at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control with reference 
to financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’).
Management’s and Board of Director’s 
Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note issued by ICAI. These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to Company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued by 
ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of 
the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
was established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With 
reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to financial 
statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial control with reference to financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that 
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls With reference to financial 
statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal financial control with reference to financial statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 151016
Date: July 16, 2025
UDIN: 25151016BMLNMT2394
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
118
119
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Balance Sheet
As at March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Notes
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
(a)Property, plant and equipment
3A
12,844.07
13,704.74
(b)	
Capital work-in-progress
3B
475.38
386.85
(c)	Right of use asset
4A
2,296.38
2,611.26
(d)	
Goodwill
3C
894.11
894.11
(e)	Financial assets
	
(i)	Investments
5
423.16
423.16
	
(ii)	Loans
6
2.33
4.99
	
(iii)	Other financial assets
7
1,082.03
1,056.45
(f)	Other non-current assets
8
400.51
1,947.45
(g)	
Non-current tax assets (net)
2,335.51
3,622.00
Total Non-Current Assets
20,753.48
24,651.01
Current assets
(a) Inventories
9
13,140.88
12,400.90
(b) Financial assets
	
(i)	Trade receivables
10
15,366.60
19,492.45
	
(ii)	Cash and cash equivalents
11
17,708.31
10,773.44
	
(iii)	Bank balances other than (ii)above
11
1,353.14
555.32
	
(iv)	Loans
12
27.54
6.92
	
(v)	Other financial assets
13
3,192.95
387.78
(c)	Other current assets
14
4,268.12
4,282.50
Total Current Assets
55,057.54
47,899.31
TOTAL ASSETS
75,811.02
72,550.32
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a)	Equity share capital
15
2,308.18
2,308.18
(b)	Other equity
16
50,025.97
44,935.95
TOTAL EQUITY
52,334.15
47,244.13
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
(a)	Financial liabilities
	
(i)	Lease liabilities
4B
2,280.76
2,490.49
(b)	Provisions
17
1,384.51
1,060.45
(c)	Deferred tax liabilities (net)
18
149.48
266.96
Total Non-Current Liabilities
3,814.75
3,817.90
Current liabilities
(a)	Financial liabilities
	
(i)	Lease liabilities
4C
228.43
211.88
	
(ii)	Trade payables
19
	
	
(a)	Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
181.60
98.46
	
	
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
15,721.16
17,419.61
	
(iii)	Other financial liabilities
20
2,037.75
1,286.69
(b)	Other current liabilities
21
237.10
273.39
(c)	Provisions
22
959.13
1,074.61
(d)	Current tax liabilities (net)
296.95
1,123.65
Total Current Liabilities
19,662.12
21,488.29
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
75,811.02
72,550.32
Material accounting policies
1
Critical estimates and judgements
2
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Sambit Roy
Jugal Sahu
Managing Director
Director & CFO
DIN: 08291664
DIN: 02629782
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Sunirmal Talukdar
Kewal Handa
Partner
Director
Director
Membership No.: 151016
DIN: 00920608
DIN: 00056826
Ashwini Natekar
Mumbai
Company Secretary
July 16, 2025
Membership No: A65477
Statement of Profit and Loss
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Notes
Year Ended 
March 31, 2025
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
REVENUE
Revenue from operations
23
82,505.75
79,070.15
Other income
24
1,876.79
872.42
Total revenue
84,382.54
79,942.57
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed
25
37,604.64
39,365.58
Purchase of stock-in-trade
10,430.69
9,170.09
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
26
(311.07)
8.26
Employee benefits expense
27
8,478.41
7,487.01
Finance costs
28
261.61
219.18
Depreciation and amortisation expense
29
2,102.32
2,261.01
Other expenses
30
18,123.13
15,831.45
Total Expenses
76,689.73
74,342.58
Profit before tax and exceptional item
7,692.81
5,599.99
Exceptional items
49
(881.74)
-
Profit before tax
6,811.07
5,599.99
Income Tax Expense
Current tax
1,851.65
1,743.24
Deferred tax
(99.01)
(266.19)
Tax expense / (reversal) of prior years
32
(86.51)
9.09
Total Tax Expenses
1,666.13
1,486.14
Profit for the year
5,144.94
4,113.85
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (net of tax)
(Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss)
(a)	
Remeasurement of the defined benefit plans
(73.39)
(149.59)
(b)	
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
18.47
37.65
Total Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the year
(54.92)
(111.94)
Total Comprehensive income for the year
5,090.02
4,001.91
Earnings per share (of C10 each)
36
22.29
17.82
Basic and diluted (C)
22.29
17.82
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Sambit Roy
Jugal Sahu
Managing Director
Director & CFO
DIN: 08291664
DIN: 02629782
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Sunirmal Talukdar
Kewal Handa
Partner
Director
Director
Membership No.: 151016
DIN: 00920608
DIN: 00056826
Ashwini Natekar
Mumbai
Company Secretary
July 16, 2025
Membership No: A65477
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
120
121
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Equity share capital and other equity
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Equity 
Share 
Capital
Reserves and Surplus
Total 
Other 
Equity
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
General 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Balance as at 01-04-2024
2,308.18
730.11
495.39 10,492.29
33,218.16
44,935.95
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
5,144.94
5,144.94
Other comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
(54.92)
(54.92)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
5,090.02
5,090.02
Balance as at 31-03-2025
2,308.18
730.11
495.39 10,492.29 38,308.18 50,025.97
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Equity 
Share 
Capital
Reserves and Surplus
Total 
Other 
Equity
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
General 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Balance as at 01-04-2023
2,308.18
730.11
495.39 10,492.29
29,216.29
40,934.08
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
4,113.85
4,113.85
Other comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
(111.94)
(111.94)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
4,001.91
4,001.91
Balance as at 31-03-2024
2,308.18
730.11
495.39 10,492.29 33,218.16 44,935.95
Nature and purpose of items in other equity
(a)	 Capital Reserve: During amalgamation, the excess of share capital of transferor companies over the cost of consideration 
paid is treated as capital reserve.
(b)	 Capital Redemption Reserve: The Company has recognised Capital Redemption Reserve on buyback of equity shares 
from its retained earnings. The amount in Capital Redemption Reserve is equal to nominal amount of the equity shares 
bought back.
(c)	 General Reserve: The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to 
general reserve pursuant to the earlier provisions of Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not 
required under the Companies Act, 2013.
(d)	 Retained Earnings: Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general 
reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Sambit Roy
Jugal Sahu
Managing Director
Director & CFO
DIN: 08291664
DIN: 02629782
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Sunirmal Talukdar
Kewal Handa
Partner
Director
Director
Membership No.: 151016
DIN: 00920608
DIN: 00056826
Ashwini Natekar
Mumbai
Company Secretary
July 16, 2025
Membership No: A65477
Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2025
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Profit before tax
6,811.07
5,599.99
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2,102.32
2,261.01
Unrealised foreign exchange loss/(gain) (net)
39.91
(101.14)
Interest income
(971.32)
(535.68)
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment
(3.75)
(4.06)
(Reversal of) / Provision for allowances for credit losses - net
(174.24)
400.63
Finance costs
261.61
219.18
Insurance Claim
(30.33)
-
Exceptional Item
881.74
-
Operating profit before working capital changes
8,917.01
7,839.93
Adjustments for,
Adjustments for (Increase)/Decrease in working capital:
(Increase)/Decrease in Trade receivables
4,246.59
2,341.91
(Increase)/Decrease in Other current assets
44.71
1,464.32
(Increase)/Decrease in Other non-current assets
1,546.94
(777.94)
(Increase)/Decrease in Other financial assets
46.39
(37.15)
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories
(1,684.98)
529.06
Increase/(Decrease) in Trade payables
(1,601.92)
(209.28)
Increase/(Decrease) in Non-current provisions
250.67
179.48
Increase/(Decrease) in Current provisions
(115.48)
7.30
Increase/(Decrease) in Other current liabilities
(36.29)
(14.24)
Increase/(Decrease) in Other financial liabilities
751.86
(266.19)
Cash generated from operations
12,365.50
11,057.20
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
(1,305.71)
(1,605.96)
Net cash generated from operating activities
11,059.79
9,451.24
B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (Including Capital work-in-progress)
(1,189.16)
(1,652.46)
Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment
91.29
7.33
Investment in fixed deposits
(3,396.31)
-
Proceeds from Insurance Claim
150.00
-
Investment in equity shares
-
(123.16)
Interest received
674.71
44.27
Net cash used in investing activities
(3,669.47)
(1,724.02)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
122
123
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2025
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Finance costs paid
(30.08)
(38.17)
Principal payment of lease liabilities
(193.19)
(130.10)
Interest payment of lease liabilities
(232.18)
(179.64)
Net cash used in financing activities
(455.45)
(347.91)
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C)
6,934.87
7,379.31
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS AT BEGINNING OF THE YEAR
10,773.44
3,394.13
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS AT THE END OF THE YEAR
17,708.31
10,773.44
The above Statement of Cash Flows is prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Sambit Roy
Jugal Sahu
Managing Director
Director & CFO
DIN: 08291664
DIN: 02629782
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Sunirmal Talukdar
Kewal Handa
Partner
Director
Director
Membership No.: 151016
DIN: 00920608
DIN: 00056826
Ashwini Natekar
Mumbai
Company Secretary
July 16, 2025
Membership No: A65477
Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2025 (Contd.)
Company Information:
Heubach Colorants India Limited (formerly Clariant Chemicals 
(India) Limited) (the ‘Company’) is a public limited Company 
domiciled in India and is listed on the BSE Limited (‘BSE’) 
and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’). 
Its registered office is situated at Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 
25th Floor, D-33, MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar, 
Navi Mumbai - 400705, Maharashtra, India. The Company 
is engaged interalia, in manufacturing and selling Specialty 
Chemicals. The Company has its own manufacturing sites in 
the State of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.
These financial statements were approved for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the directors on July 16, 2025.
Note 1: Summary of material accounting 
policies
This note provides a list of material accounting 
policies adopted in the preparation of these 
financial statements. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
(a)	Basis of preparation of financial statements:
	
Compliance with Ind AS
	
These financial statements comply in all material aspects 
with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] 
and other relevant provisions of the ‘Act’.
	
Bais of measurement
	
These financial statements have been prepared on 
historical cost basis, except for the following:
	y
certain financial assets and liabilities that are measured 
at fair value;
	y
defined benefit plans — plan assets measured at 
fair value.
	
Presentation currency and rounding off
	
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupee 
(INR) and all values are rounded to nearest lakhs 
(C00,000), except when otherwise indicated.
	
Going Concern The Company has prepared the financial 
statements on the basis that it will continue to operate as 
a going concern.
 
A) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
	
	
a)	
Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts
	
	
	
Ministry of corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notified 
the Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024, which is effective 
from annual reporting periods beginning on or 
after 1 April 2024.
	
	
	
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts is a 
comprehensive new accounting standard for 
insurance contracts covering recognition and 
measurement, presentation and disclosure. 
Ind AS 117 replaces Ind AS 104 Insurance 
Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies to all types of 
insurance contracts, regardless of the type of 
entities that issue them as well as to certain 
guarantees and financial instruments with 
discretionary participation features; a few 
scope exceptions will apply.
	
	
b)	
Ind AS 116, Leases
	
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Second Amendment 
Rules, 2024, which amended Ind AS 116, 
Leases, with respect to lease liability in a sale 
and leaseback transaction.
	
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements 
that a seller-lessee uses in measuring the 
lease liability arising in a sale and leaseback 
transaction, to ensure the seller-lessee does 
not recognise any amount of the gain or loss 
that relates to the right of use it retains. The 
amendment is effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024 and 
must be applied retrospectively to sale and 
leaseback transactions entered into after the 
date of initial application of Ind AS 116.
	
	
c)	
New standards and amendments issued 
but not effective
	
	
	
There are no such standards which are notified 
but not yet effective
(b)	Segment reporting
	
Information reported to the Chief operating decision 
maker (CODM) for the purposes of resource allocation 
and assessment of segment performance focuses on the 
types of goods delivered or provided. Operating segments 
are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to CODM.
	
The Company’s business activity falls within a single 
primary business reportable segment viz “Colorants” in 
line with Ind AS 108 “Operating Segments” which includes 
pigments, pigment preparations, dyestuff, synthetic 
resins, functional effects and coating, auxiliaries 
and chemicals.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
125
Annual Report 2024-25
124
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
The operating segment has been identified on the basis 
of the nature of products.
(c)	 Foreign currency translation
	
In preparing the financial statements of the Company, 
transactions in currencies other than the Company’s 
functional currency viz. Indian Rupee, are recognised 
at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting 
from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are 
recognised in statement of profit or loss in the period in 
which they arise. All other foreign exchange gains and 
losses are presented in the statement of profit and loss 
on a net basis within other gains/(losses). Non-monetary 
items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that 
are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are not retranslated.
(d)	Recognition of revenue
	
Sales of goods and services are recognized in line with 
the requirements of Ind AS 115, Revenue from contracts 
with customers.
	
Revenue is measured based on the consideration the 
Company expects to receive in exchange for the goods 
or services. Revenue from sales of goods is recognized 
in the income statement when control has been 
transferred to the buyer, which is usually upon delivery, 
at a fixed or determinable price, and when collectability 
is reasonably assured. Delivery is defined based on 
the terms of the sale contract. Revenue from services 
is recognized when the respective services have 
been rendered. Revenue is reported net of goods and 
service tax, returns, discounts and rebates. Rebates to 
customers are provided for in the same period that the 
related sales are recorded based on the contract terms.
	
The Company does not expect to have any contracts 
where the period between transfer of the promised 
goods or services to customer and payment by the 
customer exceed one year. As a consequence, the 
Company does not adjust any of the transaction prices 
for the time value of money. Receivable is recognised 
when the goods are delivered as this is the point of time 
that the consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is due.
(e)	 Other Operating Revenue
	
Export benefits / incentives are accounted on accrual 
basis when relevant exports are made.
	
Commission income is recognized only when the 
relevant service has been rendered or the goods have 
been delivered.
	
Income from Scrap sales is recognized when right to 
receive the income is established as per the terms of 
the contract.
(f)	 Other income
	
Interest income is recognized on a time proportion 
basis, taking into account the principal outstanding and 
the effective rate over the period to maturity when it is 
determined that such income will accrue to the Company.
	
Dividends are recognized when the right to receive the 
payment is established.
	
Rental income arising from operating leases on is 
accounted for on a straight - line basis over the 
lease terms.
(g)	Income tax
	
Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax 
and deferred tax.
	
The current tax expense or credit for the year is the tax 
payable on the current period’s taxable income based on 
the applicable enacted income tax rate in accordance 
with the Income Tax Act, 1961, adjusted by changes 
in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to 
temporary differences, items that are never taxable/
deductible and unused tax losses/ tax credits.
	
Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the 
entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends 
either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and 
settle the liability simultaneously.
	
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, 
on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are 
not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition 
of goodwill. Deferred tax is also not accounted for if it 
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in 
a transaction (other than in a business combination) 
that affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit. 
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) 
that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the 
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred tax liability is settled.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it 
is probable that future taxable profits will be available to 
utilise those temporary differences and losses.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority.
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in statement of 
profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, in which case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
(h)	Leases
	
i.	
As a Lessee:
	
	
Leases are recognised as right-of-use asset and a 
corresponding liability at the date at which the leased 
asset is available for use by the Company. Contracts 
may contain both lease and non-lease components. 
The Company allocates the consideration in the 
contract to the lease and non-lease components 
based on their relative standalone prices.
	
	
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially 
measured on present value basis. Lease liabilities 
include the net present value of the following 
lease payments:
	y
Lease 
payments 
less 
any 
lease 
incentives receivable
	y
Variable lease payment that are based on an index 
or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate 
as at the commencement date
	y
Amounts expected to be payable by the Company 
under residual value guarantees, if any
	
	
Lease payments to be made under reasonably 
certain extension options are also included in the 
measurement of the liability. The lease payments 
are discounted using Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate (since the interest rate implicit in the 
lease cannot be readily determined). Incremental 
borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the 
Company would have to pay to borrow over a similar 
term, and a similar security, the funds necessary to 
obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use 
asset in a similar economic environment and based 
on company’s standalone credit worthiness.
	
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal 
and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to 
profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce 
a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability for each period.
	
	
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising 
the following:
	y
The amount of the initial measurement of 
lease liability
	y
Any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease 
incentives received
	y
Any initial direct costs for new leases
	
	
Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over 
the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease 
term on a straight-line basis.
	
	
Payments associated with short-term leases and 
leases of low-value assets are recognised on a 
straight-line basis as on expense in profit or loss. 
Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 
12 months or less. A lease contract is modified and 
the lease modification is not accounted for as a 
separate lease, in which case the lease liability is 
remeasured based on the lease term of the modified 
lease by discounting the revised lease payments 
using a revised discount rate at the effective date 
of the modification.
	
	
The Company applies Ind AS 36 to determine whether 
a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for 
any identified impairment loss as described in the 
note 1(i) impairment of assets. Variable rents that 
do not depend on an index or rate are not included 
in the measurement the lease liability and the right-
of-use asset. The related payments are recognised 
as an expense in the period in which the event or 
condition that triggers those payments occurs and 
are included in the line ‘Other expenses’ in profit 
or loss.
	
ii.	
As a lessor:
	
	
Lease income from operating leases where the 
Company is lessor is recognised in income on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term unless the 
receipts are structured to increase in line with 
expected general inflation to compensate for the 
expected inflationary cost increases. Initial direct 
costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease are 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
126
127
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
added to the carrying amount of the underlying 
asset and recognized as expense over the lease term 
on the same basis as lease income. The Company did 
not need to make any adjustment to the accounting 
for assets held as lessor as a result of adopting the 
new leasing standard.
(i)	 Impairment of assets
	
Goodwill that have an indefinite useful life is not subject 
to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment, 
or more frequently if events or changes are indicative 
in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. 
Other assets are tested for impairment whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is 
recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for 
which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which 
are largely independent of the cash inflows from other 
assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units). 
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered 
an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of 
the impairment.
(j)	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
For the purpose of presentation in the Statement of cash 
flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand 
and balances with banks of current and term deposit 
account, highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of change in value, and bank overdraft.
(k)	Trade receivables
	
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for 
goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business. Trade receivables are recognised initially 
at transaction price and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
allowances for credit losses.
(l)	 Inventories
	
Cost is determined on weighted average basis. Cost of 
purchased inventory are determined after deducting 
rebates and discounts. Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business 
less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated 
costs necessary to make the sale.
	
Raw materials, packing materials, work in progress, 
finished goods, stock-in-trade and stores and spares 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost of raw materials and stock-in- trade include cost of 
purchases. Cost of work-in-progress and finished goods 
include direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate 
proportion of variable and fixed overhead expenditure 
(allocated on the basis of normal operating capacity). 
Cost of inventories also include all other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
(m)	Investments and other financial assets
	
Classification
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following 
measurement categories:
	y
those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either 
through other comprehensive income, or through 
statement of profit or loss), and
	y
those measured at amortised cost.
	
The classification depends on the entity’s business model 
for managing the financial assets and the contractual 
terms of the cash flows.
	
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses 
will either be recorded in statement of profit or loss or 
other comprehensive income. For investments in debt 
instruments, this will depend on the business model in 
which the investment is held. For investments in equity 
instruments, this will depend on whether the Company 
has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial 
recognition to account for the equity investment at fair 
value through other comprehensive income or through 
statement of profit or loss account.
	
The Company reclassifies debt investments when 
and only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
	
Measurement
	
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial 
asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset 
not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs 
that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the 
financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets 
carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed 
in profit or loss. However, trade receivable that do not 
contain significant financing component are measured 
at transaction price.
	
Debt instruments
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends 
on the Company’s business model for managing the asset 
and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are 
three measurement categories into which the Company 
classifies its debt instruments:
	y
Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection 
of contractual cash flows where those cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. A gain or loss on a 
debt investment that is subsequently measured at 
amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship 
is recognised in profit or loss when the asset is 
derecognised or impaired. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the 
effective interest rate method.
	y
Fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI): Assets that are held for collection of 
contractual cash flows and for selling the financial 
assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). 
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through 
OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or 
losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains 
and losses which are recognised in profit or loss. When 
the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain 
or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from 
equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains/ 
(losses). Interest income from these financial assets 
is included in other income using the effective interest 
rate method.
	y
Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL): Assets 
that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or 
FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss and is not 
part of a hedging relationship is recognised in profit 
or loss and presented net in the statement of profit or 
loss within other gains/(losses) in the period in which 
it arises. Interest income from these financial assets is 
included in other income.
	
There are no debt instruments held by the Company.
	
Equity instruments
	
The Company subsequently measures all equity 
investments at fair value. Where the Company’s 
management has elected to present fair value gains and 
losses on equity investments in other comprehensive 
income, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair 
value gains and losses to profit or loss. Dividends from 
such investments are recognised in profit or loss as other 
income when the Company’s right to receive payments 
is established.
	
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss are recognised din other gain / 
(losses) in the statement of profit or loss. Impairment 
losses (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity 
investments measured at FVOCI are not reported 
separately from other changes in fair value.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis the 
expected credit loss associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments. The 
impairment methodology applied depends on whether 
there has been a significant increase in credit risk. Note 
33 details how the Company determines whether there 
has been a significant increase in credit risk.
	
For trade receivables only, the Company applies the 
simplified approach permitted by Ind AS 109 Financial 
Instruments, which requires expected lifetime losses to 
be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
	
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine 
impairment loss allowance on the portfolio of trade 
receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically 
observed default rates over the expected life of the trade 
receivable and is adjusted for forward looking estimates. 
At every reporting date, the historical observed default 
rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking 
estimates are analyzed.
	
Derecognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset is derecognised only when the Company
	y
has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from 
the financial asset or,
	y
retains the contractual rights to receive the 
cash flows of the financial asset but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or 
more recipients.
	
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Company 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In 
such cases, the financial asset is derecognised. Where 
the entity has not transferred substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the financial 
asset is not derecognised.
	
Where the entity has neither transferred a financial asset 
nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset, the financial asset is derecognised 
if the Company has not retained control of the financial 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
128
129
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
asset. Where the Company retains control of the financial 
asset, the asset is continued to be recognised to the 
extent of continuing involvement in the financial asset.
(n)	Financial Liabilities
	
Classification
	
The Company classifies its financial liabilities in the 
following measurement categories:
	y
those to be measured subsequently at fair value 
through statement of profit or loss), and
	y
those measured at amortised cost.
	
The classification depends on the entity’s business model 
for managing the financial liabilities and the contractual 
terms of the cash flows.
	
Measurement
·	
Financial Liabilities at amortized cost
	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost represented 
by borrowings, trade and other payables are initially 
recognized at fair value, and subsequently carried at 
amortized cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) 
method. Gains and losses are recognized in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss when the liabilities are derecognized as 
well as through the EIR amortization process.
·	
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
include financial liabilities held for trading and financial 
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair 
value through profit or loss. Gains or losses on liabilities 
held for trading are recognized in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
·  
Derecognition of financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another 
from the same lender on substantially different terms, or 
the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as the 
derecognition of the original liability and the recognition 
of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
as finance costs
(o)	 Offsetting financial instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there is a 
legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts 
and there is adn intention to settle on a net basis or 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal 
course of business and in the event of default, insolvency 
or bankruptcy of the group or the counterparty.
(p)	Property, plant and equipment
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of 
property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost 
less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure 
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives 
and residual value
	
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on assets 
under construction does not commence until they are 
complete and available for use. Depreciation is provided 
on all other items of property, plant and equipment on a 
pro-rata basis on the straight-line method (‘SLM’) over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets specified in 
Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, except in case 
of certain assets, wherein based on technical evaluation, 
a different useful life has been considered. The estimated 
useful lives of assets are as follows:
Asset
Useful Life
Factory building
30 Years
Office building
60 Years
Roads
5 to 10 Years
Plant and equipment
10 Years
Hardware mainframes and Servers
6 Years
Computers
4 Years
Furniture and fixture
10 Years
Office equipment
5 Years
Vehicles
5 to 8 Years
Leasehold improvements
10 Years
	
All assets are fully depreciated in the last year of its useful 
life. The assets’ useful lives are re-viewed, and adjusted 
if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognised is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss 
arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset) is included in the statement 
of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised.
(q)	Provisions and Contingent Liabilities
	
Provisions are recognised when there is a present or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation 
and there is a reliable estimate of the amount of the 
obligation. Provisions are not recognised for future 
operating losses.
	
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the present obligation 
at the balance sheet date and are not discounted to its 
present value. These are reviewed at each year end date 
and adjusted to reflect the best current estimate.
	
Contingent liabilities are disclosed when there is a 
possible obligation arising from past events, the existence 
of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not 
wholly within the control of the Company or a present 
obligation that arises from past events where it is either 
not probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount 
cannot be made.
(r)	 Employee benefits
	
Short-term obligations
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary 
benefits that are expected to be settled wholly within 12 
months after the end of the period in which the employees 
render the related service are recognised in respect 
of employees’ services up to the end of the reporting 
period and are measured at the amounts expected to 
be paid when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit obligations in the 
balance sheet.
	
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
	
These liabilities for earned leave is not expected to be 
settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related service. 
It is therefore measured as the present value of expected 
future payments to be made in respect of services 
provided by employees up to the end of the reporting 
period using the projected unit credit method. The 
benefits are discounted using the market yields at the end 
of the reporting period that have terms approximating to 
the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements as a 
result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in profit or loss.
	
The Company presents provision for Compensated 
Absense as current and non-current based on actuarial 
valuation considering estimates of availment of leave, 
separation of employee, etc. An employee is entitled to be 
paid the entire accumulated leave balance immediately 
on separation from the Company, as per the policy of 
the Company.
	
Post-employment obligations
	
The 
Company 
operates 
the 
following 
post-
employment schemes:
	
a)	
defined benefit plans such as gratuity, ex-gratia 
gratuity, provident fund; and
	
b)	
defined contribution plans such as superannuation 
fund, employee state insurance and other funds.
	
Defined Benefit Plans
	
The company has Defined Benefit Plans for post-
employment benefits in the form of Provident Fund 
(treated as a Defined Benefit Plan on account of 
guaranteed interest benefit) and Gratuity. Provident 
Fund and Gratuity fund are recognised by the Income-
tax authorities and administered through trustees and/
or Life Insurance Corporation of India Limited. Liability 
for Defined Benefit Plans is provided on the basis of 
valuations, as at the Balance Sheet date, carried out by 
an independent actuary.
	
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in 
respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting 
period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method.
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the 
reporting period on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
	
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is 
included in employee benefit expense in the statement of 
profit or loss.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
130
131
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly 
in other comprehensive income. They are included in 
retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity 
and in the balance sheet.
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation resulting from plan amendments or 
curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss 
as past service cost.
	
Defined contribution plans
	
The Company’s contribution to superannuation fund, 
employee state insurance and other funds are considered 
as defined contribution plans, as the Company does not 
carry any further obligations apart from the contributions 
made on a monthly basis and are charged as an expense 
based on the amount of contribution required to be made. 
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the 
extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future 
payments is available.
	
Bonus plans
	
The Company recognises a liability and an expense for 
bonuses. The Company recognises a provision where 
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice 
that has created a constructive obligation.
	
Termination benefits
	
Termination benefits are payable when employment is 
terminated by the Company before the normal retirement 
date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy 
in exchange for these benefits. The Company recognises 
termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: 
(a) when the Company can no longer withdraw the offer 
of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognises 
costs for a restructuring that is within the scope of Ind 
AS 37 and involves the payment of terminations benefits. 
In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary 
redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based 
on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. 
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of 
the reporting period are discounted to present value.
(s)	 Dividends
	
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the 
reporting period.
(t)	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
	y
the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company
	y
by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for 
bonus elements in equity shares issued during the year 
and excluding treasury shares.
	
Diluted earnings per share
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
	y
the after income tax effect of interest and other 
financing costs associated with dilutive potential 
equity shares, and
	y
the weighted average number of additional equity 
shares that would have been outstanding assuming 
the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Note 2: Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of 
accounting estimates which, by definition, will seldom equal the 
actual results. Management also needs to exercise judgement 
in applying the Company’s accounting policies.
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items which 
are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and 
assumptions turning out to be different than those originally 
assessed. Detailed information about each of these estimates 
and judgements is included in relevant notes together with 
information about the basis of calculation for each affected 
line item in the financial statements.
The areas involving critical estimates or judgements are:
	y
Deferred Taxes - Note 35
	y
Goodwill impairment – Note 1(i) and Note 3C.
	y
Estimation for the accounting of employee benefits - Note 39
	y
Allowance for credit losses on trade receivable - Note 1 (k) 
and Note 10
	y
Measurement of useful lives for property, plant and 
equipment and goodwill- Note 1 (i) and (p).
	y
Estimation of Provision for Inventory - Note 1(l) and Note 9
	y
Determination of Lease term – Note 1(h) and 4
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. They are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that may have a financial impact 
on the Company and that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances.
3	
Property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress and goodwill
Note 3A: Property, plant and equipment
(C in Lakhs)
Description
Cost
Depreciation and Impairment
Net Book 
Value
As at 
01-04-
2024
Additions
Deductions
As at
31-03-
2025
As at
01-04-
2024
Deductions
For the 
year
As at
31-03-
2025
As at
31-03-
2025
Freehold Land
235.90
-
-
235.90
-
-
-
-
235.90
Buildings
9,680.49
179.73
123.08
9,737.14
2,801.88
36.74
319.23
3,084.37
6,652.77
Plant and equipment
20,506.40
725.21
67.85
21,163.76
14,534.66
67.85
1,272.77
15,739.58
5,424.18
Furniture and fixtures
341.62
18.91
35.87
324.66
203.05
35.87
28.04
195.22
129.44
Office equipment
851.32
12.39
-
863.71
644.81
-
91.97
736.78
126.93
Vehicles
638.79
78.05
18.00
698.84
365.38
16.82
75.43
423.99
274.85
Total
32,254.52
1,014.29
244.80 33,024.01
18,549.78
157.28 1,787.44
20,179.94
12,844.07
Note 3A: Property, plant and equipment
(C in Lakhs)
Description
Cost
Depreciation and Impairment
Net Book 
Value
As at 
01-04-
2023
Additions
Deductions
As at
31-03-
2024
As at
01-04-
2024
Deductions
For the 
year
As at
31-03-
2024
As at
31-03-
2024
Freehold Land
235.90
-
-
235.90
-
-
-
-
235.90
Buildings
9,195.50
484.99
-
9,680.49
2,473.63
-
328.25
2,801.88
6,878.61
Plant and equipment
19,324.64
1,181.76
-
20,506.40
13,022.56
-
1,512.10
14,534.66
5,971.74
Furniture and fixtures
326.45
15.17
-
341.62
170.21
-
32.84
203.05
138.57
Office equipment
748.75
219.72
117.15
851.32
682.12
116.63
79.32
644.81
206.51
Vehicles
560.57
117.01
38.79
638.79
322.28
36.04
79.14
365.38
273.41
Total
30,391.81
2,018.65
155.94 32,254.52
16,670.80
152.67 2,031.65
18,549.78
13,704.74
Notes:
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly 
executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in note 3A to the financial statements, are held in the name of the company.
Note 3B: Capital Work-in-Progress
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Balances at the Beginning of the year
386.85
753.04
add: Additions during the year
1,120.81
1,652.46
less: Capitalisation during the year
1,014.29
2,018.65
less: Written-off during the year
17.99
-
Total
475.38
386.85
Note 3C: Goodwill
Impairment testing mechanism to the cash-generating unit is as follows:
(C in Lakhs)
Cash generating unit (CGU)
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Colorants
894.11
894.11
Total
894.11
894.11
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
132
133
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
On March 31, 2015, the Company acquired “the Carbon Black Business” from Lanxess India Private Limited as a going concern on 
a slump sale basis. The acquisition included the Carbon Black Dispersion plant at Nagda, along with the related assets, liabilities, 
and employees. The excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired was recognized as goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined based on “Value in Use” calculation which uses cash flow projections covering 
a five-year period and a discount rate 17.17% per annum (31-03-2024: 12.96% per annum). Cash flow projections during the 
five year period are based on the histrorical growth rate and margins. The cash flows beyond that five-year period have been 
extrapolated using a steady 5% per annum (31-03-2024: 5% per annum) growth rate which is the projected long-term average 
growth rate.
The Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which recoverable amount is based 
would not cause the aggregate carrying amount to exceed the aggregate recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
4	
Leases
4A	 Right-of-use Assets
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Building
2,288.55
2,603.27
Land
7.83
7.99
2,296.38
2,611.26
4B	 Non - Current Lease liabilities
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Lease liabilities (Refer note 46)
2,280.76
2,490.49
2,280.76
2,490.49
4C	 Current Lease liabilities
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Lease liabilities (Refer note 46)
228.43
211.88
228.43
211.88
5	
Non-Current Financial Assets - Investments
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Equity Instrument at fair value through profit or loss (Unquoted)
Investments in other Entities
First Energy 2 Private Limited 
(30,00,000 Equity Shares of C10 each, fully paid up)
300.00
300.00
Dalavaipuram Renewables Private Limited 
(3,07,896 equity shares of C10 each, fully paid up and 9,23,662 Non-interest 
bearing optionally convertible debenture of C10 each)
123.16
123.16
423.16
423.16
	
Note 33 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks and Refer Note 34 for fair value measurements.
6	
Non-current financial assets: Loans
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Unsecured, considered good
Loans to employees
2.33
4.99
2.33
4.99
	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and other related parties, either severally or jointly with any other person.
	
Note 33 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks.
7	
Non-current financial assets: Others
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Security and other deposits
642.82
612.66
Fixed Deposits with Bank (Maturity more than 12 Months)
29.28
33.46
Other receivables
410.33
410.33
1,082.43
1,056.45
8	
Other non-current assets
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Capital advances
15.63
12.55
Indirect taxes recoverable
264.29
1,778.27
Prepayments
120.59
156.63
400.51
1,947.45
9	
Current assets: Inventories
	
(Valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value)
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Raw materials
4,019.67
3,551.60
Packing materials
156.09
167.51
Work-in-progress
2,739.62
2,560.08
Finished goods
4,784.79
4,563.52
Stock-in-trade
798.13
887.87
Stores and spares
642.58
670.32
13,140.88
12,400.90
Included above, goods in transit
Raw materials
2.57
177.97
Stock-in-trade
391.57
296.37
394.14
474.34
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
134
135
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
10	 Current financial assets: Trade receivables
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Secured, considered good
803.00
596.19
Unsecured, considered good
14,563.60
18,896.26
Significant increase in Credit Risk
-
-
Credit impaired
296.32
476.61
15,662.92
19,969.06
Less: Allowances for credit losses
296.32
476.61
15,366.60
19,492.45
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Further classified as:
Receivable from related parties (Refer note 40)
4,530.19
9,162.60
Receivable from others
10,836.41
10,329.85
15,366.60
19,492.45
	
No trade receivables are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly with any other person 
or firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member.
	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on credit terms of 60 to 120 days. The Company does not 
hold any collateral security.
	
Refer Note 33 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks, and details of impairment losses for trade 
receivables and fair values.
	
Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule
31-Mar-2025
Current
Particulars
Unbilled 
Dues
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of Receipts
Less than 
6 months
6 months
- 1 year
More than 
1 years 
upto 2 
years
More than 
2 years 
upto 3 
years
More than
3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
-
13,622.08
1,717.60
26.92
-
-
-
15,366.60
(ii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables –
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
-
70.73
78.35
3.23
0.40
1.10
142.51
296.32
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables– 
considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
- 13,692.81
1,795.95
30.15
0.40
1.10
142.51 15,662.92
Less: Allowances for credit losses 
(Disputed and Undisputed)
296.32
Total
15,366.60
31-Mar-2024
Current
Particulars
Unbilled 
Dues
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of Receipts
Less than 
6 months
6 months
- 1 year
More than 
1 years 
upto 2 
years
More than 
2 years 
upto 3 
years
More than
3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
-
15,519.87
3,964.88
5.58
0.19
1.93
-
19,492.45
(ii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables –
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
-
-
407.39
0.57
0.02
0.20
68.43
476.61
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables– 
considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
- 15,519.87
4,372.27
6.15
0.21
2.13
68.43 19,969.06
Less: Allowances for credit losses 
(Disputed and Undisputed)
476.61
Total
19,492.45
11	 Current financial assets: Cash and bank balances
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Cash and cash equivalents:
Balances with Banks:
- In current accounts
1,550.14
897.28
- In term deposits with original maturity of less than three months
16,157.73
9,875.94
Cash on hand
0.44
0.22
17,708.31
10,773.44
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents:
Earmarked balances with banks: Unclaimed dividend
347.65
449.32
Deposits with banks with original maturity of more than three months but less 
than 12 months
1,005.49
106.00
1,353.14
555.32
	
Refer Note 33 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
136
137
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
12	 Current financial assets: Loans
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Loans to employees
27.54
6.92
27.54
6.92
	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and other related parties, either severally or jointly with any other person.
	
Note 33 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks.
13	 Current financial assets: Others
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Export incentives receivable
403.97
266.66
Fixed Deposits with Bank (Original Maturity more than 12 Months but remaining 
Maturity less than 12 Months)
2,501.00
-
Non trade receivables
287.98
121.12
3,192.95
387.78
14	 Other current assets
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Advances to suppliers
407.44
708.62
Balance with Government authorities
3,342.58
3,246.44
Prepayments
343.49
200.12
Other current assets
174.61
127.32
4,268.12
4,282.50
15	 Share Capital
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Authorised
3,00,00,000 equity shares of C10/- each
3,000.00
3,000.00
Issued, subscribed and paid up
2,30,81,798 equity shares of C10/- each fully paid up
(31-03-2025: 2,30,81,798)
2,308.18
2,308.18
15a	Reconciliation of the number of equity shares outstanding as at the beginning and at the end of 
the year
(C in Lakhs)
Equity shares 
As at 31-03-2025
As at 31-03-2024
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Outstanding as at the beginning of the year
2,30,81,798
2,308.18
2,30,81,798
2,308.18
Outstanding as at the end of the year
2,30,81,798
2,308.18
2,30,81,798
2,308.18
15b	Shares held by subsidiaries of the ultimate holding Company “Sudarshan Chemical Industries 
Limited”
(C in Lakhs)
Name of Shareholder / Promoters
As at 31-03-2025
As at 31-03-2024
Number
%
Number
%
Sudarshan Switzerland HLD2 AG (formerly 
Heubach EBITO Chemiebeteiligungen AG)
41,09,426
17.80
41,09,426
17.80
Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 AG (formerly 
Heubach Holding Switzerland AG)
84,39,385
36.56
84,39,385
36.56
	
There are no shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity shares of the Company except above. (refer note 48)
	
There are no change in promoters shareholding (refer note 48)
15 c	The Company has not allotted any equity shares for consideration other than cash and bonus shares during the period of 
five financial years immediately preceding the Balance Sheet date.
15 d	No Equity Shares bought back during 5 financial years immediately preceding March 31, 2025.
15e	Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
	
The Company has one class of equity share having a par value of C10/- per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one 
vote per share held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the 
ensuing annual general meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders 
are eligible to receive the remaining asset of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to 
their shareholding.
16	 Other equity
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Capital reserve
730.11
730.11
Capital redemption reserve
495.39
495.39
General reserve
10,492.29
10,492.29
Retained earnings
38,308.18
33,218.16
50,025.97
44,935.95
	
For nature and purpose of items in other equity, refer to the Statement of changes in equity
17	 Non - current liabilities: Provisions
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Provision for employee benefits
	
Compensated absences
621.43
617.44
	
Gratuity (Refer note no. 39)
763.08
443.01
1,384.51
1,060.45
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
138
139
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
18	 Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment
644.26
723.46
Goodwill
225.05
225.04
A
869.31
948.50
Deferred tax assets
Allowance credit losses and doubtful receivables
177.86
223.24
Provision for employee benefits
389.84
302.27
Other provisions
151.19
154.77
Others
0.94
1.26
B
719.83
681.54
A-B
149.48
266.96
	
Movements in deferred tax liabilites (net) for the year ended 31-03-2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
Balance
Recognized 
in P&L
Recognized 
in OCI
Closing 
Balance
Property, plant and equipment
723.46
(79.2)
-
644.26
Goodwill
225.05
-
-
225.05
Allowance credit losses and doubtful receivables
(223.24)
45.38
-
(177.86)
Provision for employees benefits
(302.28)
(69.09)
(18.47)
(389.84)
Other Provision
(154.77)
3.58
-
(151.19)
Intangibles
(1.26)
0.31
-
(0.94)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities / (Assets)
266.96
(99.02)
(18.47)
149.48
	
Movements in deferred tax liabilites (net) for the year ended 31-03-2024
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
Balance
Recognised 
in P&L
Recognised 
in OCI
Closing 
Balance
Property, plant and equipment
821.33
(97.87)
-
723.46
Goodwill
225.04
-
-
225.04
Allowance credit losses and doubtful receivables
(122.4)
(100.84)
-
(223.24)
Provision for employee benefits
(214.84)
(49.78)
(37.65)
(302.27)
Other provisions
(136.66)
(18.11)
-
(154.77)
Intangible assets
(1.67)
0.41
-
(1.26)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities / (Assets)
570.8
(266.19)
(37.65)
266.96
19	 Current financial liabilities: Trade payables
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Trade Payables:
- Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (Refer Note 37)
181.60
98.46
- Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises *
15,721.16
17,419.61
15,902.76
17,518.07
	
*Refer Note 40 for trade payables to related parties.
	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 45 - 90 days terms.
	
Refer Note 33 for information about the Company’s financial risks management process
	
Trade Payables ageing schedule
31-Mar-2025
Current
Particulars
Unbilled 
Dues
Payables 
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of Payment
Less than 
1 year
More than 1 
years upto 
2 years
More than 2 
years upto 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) MSME
-
181.60
-
-
-
-
181.60
(ii) Disputed dues – MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii) Others
2,246.15
13,350.46
34.25
61.72
7.19
21.39
15,721.16
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2,246.15 13,532.06
34.25
61.72
7.19
21.39 15,902.76
31-Mar-2024
Current
Particulars
Unbilled 
Dues
Payables 
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of Payment
Less than 
1 year
More than 1 
years upto 
2 years
More than 2 
years upto 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) MSME
-
98.46
-
-
-
-
98.46
(ii) Disputed dues – MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii) Others
3,272.64
13,386.88
729.07
6.49
3.45
21.08
17,419.61
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,272.64 13,485.34
729.07
6.49
3.45
21.08 17,518.07
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
140
141
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
20	 Current financial liabilities: Others
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Security and other deposits
62.73
12.73
Employee benefits payable
960.19
493.90
Payables for capital expenditure
228.60
50.45
Accrued liabilities
438.58
280.29
Unclaimed dividend *
347.65
449.32
2,037.75
1,286.69
	
*There is no amount due and outstanding to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund.
21	 Other current liabilities
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Advances from customers - Contract liabilities *
65.91
27.47
Statutory dues (including provident fund and withholding taxes)
165.26
243.03
Other liabilities
5.93
2.89
237.10
273.39
	
*There has been no significant change in the contract liabilities and major portion has been recognised as a revenue during current year 
from opening contract liabilities.
22	 Current liabilities: Provisions
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Provision for employee benefits
	
Compensated absences
161.13
140.48
Other Provisions
	
Provision for indirect tax and other matters
798.00
934.13
959.13
1,074.61
22a	Movements in provision for indirect tax and other matters
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Opening balance
934.13
945.15
Provision made during the year
326.80
-
Amount utilised / (reversed)
(462.93)
(11.02)
Closing balance
798.00
934.13
	
The above provision is management’s best estimate towards various indirect tax & other matters, pending settlement with government 
authorities.
23	 Revenue from operations (Refer Note 41)
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
Sale of products
79,148.41
76,366.54
	
Sale of services
2,655.38
1,704.04
Other operating revenue
	
Export incentives
479.26
417.03
	
Commission income
92.38
460.79
	
Scrap sale
130.32
121.75
82,505.75
79,070.15
24	 Other income
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost
	
Fixed deposits
846.56
156.09
	
Others
124.76
379.59
Rental income
	
Lease of land (refer note 46)
64.46
61.39
Other gains and losses
	
Net Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
3.75
4.06
	
Foreign exchange gain (net)
406.93
271.29
	
Reversal of provision for credit losses
400.00
-
	
Insurance Claims
30.33
-
1,876.79
872.42
25	 Cost of materials consumed*
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Raw materials consumed
36,063.04
37,780.96
Packing materials consumed
1,541.60
1,584.62
37,604.64
39,365.58
	
* Cost of materials consumed is based on derived values.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
142
143
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
26	 Changes in inventories
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Opening inventories
	
Finished goods
4,563.52
4,816.79
	
Stock-in-trade
887.87
845.09
	
Work - in - progress
2,560.08
2,357.85
8,011.47
8,019.73
Less: Closing inventories
	
Finished goods
4,784.79
4,563.52
	
Stock-in-trade
798.13
887.87
	
Work - in - progress
2,739.62
2,560.08
8,322.54
8,011.47
Changes in inventories
(311.07)
8.26
27	 Employee benefits expense
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Salaries, wages, bonus, etc.
7,116.95
6,175.35
Gratuity (rerer to note 39)
246.67
176.85
Contribution to provident fund
356.00
317.53
Contribution to superannuation fund
87.09
82.36
Staff welfare expenses
671.70
734.92
8,478.41
7,487.01
28	 Finance costs
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Bank charges and other costs
29.43
39.54
Interest cost on lease liabilities (refer note 46)
232.18
179.64
261.61
219.18
29	 Depreciation and amortisation expenses
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer note 3)
1,787.44
2,031.66
Depreciation on right-of-use assets (refer note 46)
314.88
229.35
2,102.32
2,261.01
30	 Other expenses
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Stores and spare parts etc. consumed
693.97
463.87
Repairs and maintenance:
	
Plant and machinery
1,579.11
1,196.07
	
Buildings
354.50
279.56
	
Others
165.57
220.87
Power and fuel
4,993.88
4,839.54
Rent (including lease payments)
97.60
179.47
Rates and taxes (including water charges)
631.36
359.57
Insurance
227.59
206.51
Clearing, forwarding and transport
1,938.01
1,496.34
Travelling and conveyance
266.10
337.72
Commission
39.25
77.13
Royalty (refer no 40)
171.26
119.10
Legal and consultancy
574.95
521.90
Information technology services
1,288.99
632.19
Remuneration to Cost Auditors
3.00
3.00
Commission to Directors (refer note 40)
15.00
30.00
Directors' Sitting Fees (refer note 40)
88.20
41.40
Payment to statutory auditors (refer note 30.1)
29.33
29.71
Laboratory Expenses
283.34
197.32
Environmental and treatment cost
862.15
518.75
Jobwork and processing charges
2,549.15
2,187.89
Security Expenses
196.99
178.89
Subscription and membership fees
70.93
64.30
Printing & Stationery
48.38
144.69
Postage & Communication Charges
123.13
33.58
Advertisement and Promotional Expenses
5.18
51.24
Allowances for credit losses
225.76
400.63
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities (refer note 
38)
102.22
116.15
Service charges
359.81
693.19
Miscellaneous expenses
138.42
210.87
18,123.13
15,831.45
30.1	Auditor’s remuneration
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
As auditor:
	
Statutory audit (including for quarterly limited reviews)
22.05
19.18
	
Tax audit
1.55
1.36
	
Reimbursement of expenses
1.41
0.64
	
For other services
4.32
8.53
29.33
29.71
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
144
145
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
31	 Reconciliation of income tax expenses with accounting profit 
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Profit before tax
6,811.07
5,599.99
Income tax using the Company's domestic tax rate @ 25.17% (PY 25.17%)
1,714.35
1,409.52
Effect of amounts that are deductible in determining taxable profit
(498.86)
(496.38)
Effect of amounts that are not deductible in determining taxable profit
537.28
563.91
Effect of tax adjustments of prior years (net) (refer note 32)
(86.51)
9.09
1,666.26
1,486.14
Income tax expense recognised in profit or loss
1,752.64
1,477.05
Effect of tax adjustments of prior years (net) (refer note 32)
(86.51)
9.09
1,666.13
1,486.14
32	 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company carried out a detailed review of its income tax positions relating to 
long-outstanding balances from prior assessment years. This review was conducted based on internal evaluations, available 
documentation and consultation with an external tax advisor.
	
Accordingly, a net adjustment of C86.51 lakhs has been recorded through the write-off/write-back of the respective 
tax balances.
33	  Financial instruments and risk review
	
Capital management
	
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to:
	
(i)	
Safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and 
benefits for other stakeholders; and
	
(ii)	 Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
	
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
	
The capital structure of the Company consists of equity (comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as 
detailed in notes 15 and 16). The Company is debt free with no long-term borrowings as at 31-03-2025 and is not subject 
to any externally imposed capital requirements.
	
Categories of financial instruments
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Financial assets
Measured at amortised cost
Cash and bank balances
19,061.45
11,328.76
Trade receivables
15,366.60
19,492.45
Loans
29.87
11.91
Other financial assets
4,274.98
1,444.23
Measured at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Investment in Equity shares at fair value through profit or loss (Unquoted)
423.16
423.16
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Financial liabilities
Measured at amortised cost
Lease Liabilities
2,509.19
2,702.37
Trade payables
15,902.76
17,518.07
Other financial liabilities
2,037.75
1,286.69
	
At the end of the reporting period, there are no significant concentrations of credit risk for financial assets measured 
at FVTPL. The carrying amount reflected above represents the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for such 
financial assets.
	
Financial risk management framework
	
The Company is primarily exposed to financial risks, market risk (including foreign exchange risk and price risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Company’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets 
and addresses the risk associated with the financial assets and liabilities.
	
Management identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks under approved policies to manage overall foreign exchange 
risk, credit risk and investing surplus liquidity (counterparty risk).
	
Market risks
	
Foreign exchange risk
	
The Company has exports to and imports from other countries and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various 
currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro and the US-dollar. Foreign exchange risk arise from recognized 
assets and liabilities, when they are denominated in a currency other than Indian Rupee.
	
The exchange rates have been volatile in the recent years and may continue to be volatile in the future. The Company 
mitigates the foreign exchange risk by setting appropriate exposure limits, periodic monitoring of the exposures, etc.
	
The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
end of the reporting year are as follows:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Amount receivable
USD (Amount in foreign currency)
53.14
102.81
C
4,497.81
8,473.86
EURO (Amount in foreign currency)
3.35
4.91
C
304.67
461.05
Amount payable
USD (Amount in foreign currency)
18.06
29.01
C
1,521.27
2,399.44
EURO (Amount in foreign currency)
8.68
3.89
C
789.25
350.74
CHF (Amount in foreign currency)
0.10
0.10
C
7.84
7.84
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
146
147
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Following is the analysis of foreign exchange risk sensitivity impacting the profit where the Indian Rupee strengthens and 
weakens by 1% against the relevant currency. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and negative number 
below indicates a decrease in profit.:
(C in Lakhs)
Foreign currency
Year ended 31-03-2025
Year ended 31-03-2024
1%
strengthening
1%
weakening
1%
strengthening
1%
weakening
USD
(29.77)
29.77
(60.74)
60.74
EURO
4.85
(4.85)
(1.10)
1.10
CHF
0.08
(0.08)
0.08
(0.08)
	
Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises from deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as from credit exposures to customers, including 
outstanding receivables.
	
Customer credit risk exposure is triggered by customer default risk and country risk. As at balance sheet date, the Company 
does not have significant concentration of credit risk either due to size of customers or due to country risk.
	
Company has a credit risk policy in place to ensure that sales are made to customers only after an appropriate credit risk 
rating and credit line allocation process. Procedures are standardized within credit risk policy and supported by the IT 
system with respective credit management tools. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy 
counterparties and obtaining collaterals viz Security Deposit or Bank Guarantee as per Credit Policy, as a means of mitigating 
the risk of financial loss from defaults.The average credit period on sales of goods is 60 to 120 days.
	
Credit risk from balances with cash & cash equivalent is managed by the Company’s treasury department in accordance 
with the Company’s policy. Also, the credit risk on security deposits for rental premises and loans to employees have low 
credit risk because of no history of defaults and no concerns for the counterparties to meet their obligations in the future.
	
Movement in the credit loss allowance
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31-03-2025
Year Ended 
31-03-2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
476.61
75.98
(Reversal of) / Provision for credit losses - net
(180.29)
400.63
Balance at the end of the year
296.32
476.61
	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk management:
	
The Company is currently debt free having no long term financial liabilities. Management monitors the forecasts of the 
Company’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet its operational needs while maintaining sufficient 
headroom on its undrawn borrowing facilities. Considering the liquidity advantage, funds surplus to the operational needs 
are invested in the short term bank deposits. The cash & cash equivalents and bank deposits are highly liquid and are readily 
available for payment of liabilities.
	
The following table analysis the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities. The amounts disclosed are the 
contractual undiscounted cash flows. The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Company may 
be required to pay.
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1 to 5 years
5 years and above
As at 31-03-2025
Trade payables
15,902.76
-
-
Lease liabilities
228.43
1,248.59
1,032.17
Other financial liabilities
2,037.75
-
-
As at 31-03-2024
Trade payables
17,518.07
-
-
Lease liabilities
211.88
1,077.55
1,412.94
Other financial liabilities
1,286.69
-
-
34	 Fair value measurement and related disclosures
	
Fair value of the Company’s financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
	
Some of the Company’s financial assets are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
	
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets are determined (in particular, the 
valuation technique(s) and inputs used).
(C in Lakhs)
Financial assets
Fair Value as at
Fair Value 
hierarchy
Valuation technique(s) and 
key input(s)
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit & loss
423.16
423.16 Level 3
Using discounted cash flow method.
	
Fair value of financial assets that are not measured at fair value (but fair value disclosures 
are required):
	
The management considers that the carrying amounts of such financial assets and financial liabilities recognised in the 
balance sheet approximate their fair values.
35	 Contingent liabilities and commitments (to the extent not provided for)
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
(a) Contingent liabilities:
(i) in respect of income tax matters
-
-
(ii) in respect of Sales Tax / VAT / GST matters
1,022.00
1,108.19
(iii) in respect of excise / service tax matters
3,463.20
3,666.48
(iv) Other matters in dispute
152.45
152.45
The Company has various ongoing Direct tax, Indirect tax and other matters 
under litigation. The assessment of likely outcome of tax and other matters 
and related outflow of resources involves significant judgement on positions 
undertaken by the Management which are based on the application and 
interpretation of law.
(b) Commitments:
(i) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account and not provided for (net of capital advances)
427.50
204.03
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
148
149
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
36	 Earnings per share:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
(a) Basic and diluted earnings per share (Amount in Rupees)
22.29
17.82
(b) Profit attributable to the equity shareholders of the company (in Lakhs)
5144.94
4,113.85
Weighted average number of equity shares (Numbers)
2,30,81,798
2,30,81,798
	
The Company does not have any dilutive potential ordinary shares and therefore diluted earning per share is the same as 
basic earning per share.
37	 Disclosures as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 
2006 (MSMED Act). This information has been determined to the extent such parties 
have been identified on the basis of intimations received from suppliers.
(C in Lakhs)
Particular
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
(a) Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and 
remaining unpaid as at year end
-
-
(b) Principal amount not yet due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act 
and remaining unpaid as at year end
181.60
98.46
(c) Interest thereon due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and 
remaining unpaid as at year end
-
-
(d) Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, beyond 
the appointed day during the year
2,692.85
870.22
(e) Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers 
registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
-
-
(f) Interest paid, under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under 
the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
-
-
(g) Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED Act, for 
payments already made
14.28
1.37
(h) Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
21.68
91.86
38	 Corporate Social Responsibility
	
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a Company meeting the applicability threshold, needs to spend at least 
2% of its average net profit for the immediately preceding three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
activities. The areas for CSR activities are promoting educations, healthcare supports, women emplowerments etc.
	
A CSR committee has been formed by the company as per the Act. The funds are utilized through the year on these activities 
which are specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
A)	 Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
102.09
97.85
B)	 Amount available for set-off from preceeding financial years
-
-
C)	 Net CSR obligation (A+B)
102.09
97.85
D)	Amount of expenditure incurred during the year:
	
i)	 For construction or acquisition of any assets
	
	
-	
In cash
-
-
	
	
-	
Yet to be paid in cash
-
-
	
ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above
	
	
-	
In cash
102.22
116.15
	
	
-	
Yet to be paid in cash
-
-
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
E)	 Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
F)	 Total of previous year’s shortfall
-
-
G)	Reason for shortfall
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
H)	Excess amount spent, available for set-off in succeeding financial years (D-C)
0.13
18.30
I)	 Excess amount spent, carried forward to be set-off in succeeding financial years
-
-
J)	 Details of related party transactions
Nil
Nil
	
The Company does not have any ongoing projects as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
39	  Employee benefits:
	
(1)	Defined benefits plans - As per actuarial valuation
	
(a)	Gratuity
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Funded
Funded
(i)
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss for the year
1
Current service cost
223.78
177.48
2
Interest on net defined benefit liability / (asset)
22.89
(0.63)
3
Expense recognised in statement of profit and loss (refer note 
27)
246.67
176.85
(ii)
Expenses recognised in other comprehensive income
1
Return on plan assets
(89.46)
35.02
2
Loss / (Gain) from change in financial assumptions
86.87
54.12
3
Loss/(Gain) from change in demographic assumptions
-
-
4
Experience (Gain)/Loss
75.98
60.45
5
(Income) / Expense recognised in Other comprehensive income
73.39
149.59
(iii) Actual return on plan assets for the year
1
Expected return on plan assets
166.32
189.42
2
Actuarial gain on plan assets
(89.46)
(35.02)
3
Actual return on plan assets
255.78
154.40
(iv) Net asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet as at the year end
1
Present value of the defined benefit obligation
3,237.00
2,959.49
2
Fair value of plan assets
2,473.92
2,516.47
3
Net (liability)/asset recognised in the balance sheet (refer note 
17)
(763.08)
(443.02)
(v)
Change in defined benefit obligation during the year
1
Present value of obligation at the beginning of the year
2,959.49
2,800.61
2
Current service cost
223.78
177.48
3
Interest cost
189.21
188.79
4
Benefits paid
(298.33)
(321.96)
5
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss on obligation
162.85
114.57
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
150
151
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Funded
Funded
6
Present value of obligation as at the end of the year
3,237.00
2,959.49
(vi) Changes in fair value of plan asset during the year
1
Fair value of plan assets as at the beginning of the year
2,516.47
2,684.03
2
Expected return on plan assets
166.32
189.42
3
Contributions made
-
-
4
Benefits paid
(298.33)
(321.96)
5
Actuarial gain on plan assets
89.46
(35.02)
6
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
2,473.92
2,516.47
(vii) Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets
1
Government debt instruments
40%
45%
2
Other debt instruments
44%
38%
3
Insurer managed funds
9%
8%
4
Others
7%
10%
(viii) Actuarial assumptions
1
Discount rate
6.75%
7.20%
2
Expected rate of return on plan assets
6.75%
7.20%
3
Salary escalation
6.6%-9.0%
6.6%-9.0%
(ix) The company expects to contribute C250.00 Lakhs (Previous year: C250.00 Lakhs) to the funded gratuity plans 
in the next year.
	
(b)	Sensitivity analysis
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Impact of increase in 25 bps on DBO
1	
Discount Rate Gratuity
(1.51%)
(1.53%)
2	
Salary Escalation Gratuity
1.53%
1.56%
Impact of decrease in 25 bps on DBO
1	
Discount Rate Gratuity
1.56%
1.58%
2	
Salary Escalation Gratuity
(1.49%)
(1.52%)
	
(c)	 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 6.22 years for gratuity.
	
	
The expected maturity analysis for Gratuity is as follows:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Expected benefits for year 1
774.99
620.99
Expected benefits for year 2
364.88
396.53
Expected benefits for year 3
285.11
299.74
Expected benefits for year 4
362.18
247.77
Expected benefits for year 5
243.99
326.99
Expected benefits for year 6
179.13
221.59
Expected benefits for year 7
285.06
160.05
Expected benefits for year 8
298.22
249.30
Expected benefits for year 9
202.09
274.13
Expected benefits for year 10 and above
2,441.33
2,407.28
	
(d)	Gratuity is administered through duly constituted and approved independent trusts and also through Group gratuity 
scheme with Life Insurance Corporation of India.
	
(e)	 Future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation take in to account inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
	
(f)	 Basis used to determine expected rate of return on plan assets:
	
	
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on market expectation at the beginning of the year for returns 
over the entire life of the related obligation.
	
(2)	Other long term benefits
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Compensated absences
785.74
757.92
	
(3)	Provident fund
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Defined benefit obligation
0.00
0.00
Fund assets
0.00
0.00
Net (asset) / liability
0.00
0.00
	
	
*During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company commenced the process of surrendering the Provident Fund Trust. Consequently, 
the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner–II, Nariman Point (the “RPFC”) has directed that the Company’s employees provident 
fund known as ‘Clariant Chemicals India Limited Employees Provident Fund’ (“EPF Trust”) comply as an un-exempted establishment 
with effect from March 1, 2024. In this regard, the RPFC has inter alia asked the EPF Trust to comply with the necessary conditions as 
specified in its cancellation/transfer letter. Accordingly, the EPF Trust has transferred securities to the RPFC, and also has liquidated 
securities and transferred the proceeds to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner (RPFC), Further, the RPFC has appointed a 
third-party auditor to review the EPF Trust accounts, who has also completed a third-party audit of the EPF Trust accounts, with no 
material observations. The EPF Trust will be formally closed after obtaining final confirmation from the RPFC. As per the Company’s 
assessment, it does not expect any material adjustments to these financial statements as a consequence of above.
40	 Related party disclosures as required by Ind AS-24 “Related Party Disclosures” are given below:
Relationship:
Country of 
Incorporation
(a) Enterprises where control exists:
(i)	Ultimate Holding Company
	
-	
Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited (wef March 04, 2025)
India
	
-	
SK Neptune Husky Holdings S.à.r.l. (upto March 03, 2025)
Luxemborg
(ii)	Principal Shareholders (subsidiaries of the Ultimate Holding Company):
	
-	
Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 AG (formerly Heubach Holding Switzerland AG)
Switzerland
	
-	
Sudarshan Switzerland HLD2 AG (formerly Heubach EBITO Chemiebeteiligungen AG)Switzerland
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
152
153
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Relationship:
Country of 
Incorporation
(b) Other related parties in the Heubach group with whom the Company has transactions:
Fellow subsidiary companies:
Heubach Colorants Singapore Pte. Ltd.
Singapore
Heubach Colorants Germany GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
Germany
Heubach Colour Private Limited
India
Heubach Colorants México, S.A. de C.V.
Mexico
Heubach Colorants Brasil Ltda.
Brazil
Heubach Colorants Japan K.K.
Japan
Heubach Colorants Pigment Preparations (Tianjin) Ltd.
China
Heubach Pigments Private Limited
India
Heubach Colorants USA LLC
USA
Heubach Colorants Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd
South Africa
Heubach GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
Germany
Heubach LTD A New Jersey Limited Partnership
USA
Heubach Group GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
Germany
Heubach Colorants (Shanghai) Ltd.
China
Sudarshan Langelsheim PLT GmbH (wef March 04, 2025)
Germany
	
(c)	 Key management personnel:
	
	
Executive Directors
	
	
Sambit Roy (wef November 25, 2024)
	
	
Bharath Sesha (upto August 31, 2024)
	
	
Jugal Sahu
	
	
Non-Executive Directors
	
	
Kewal Handa
	
	
Sunirmal Talukdar
	
	
Indu Shahani (upto March 31, 2024)
	
	
Diana Dhote (wef April 01, 2024)
	
	
Ravi Kapoor (upto July 16, 2025)
	
	
Rajesh Balkrishna Rathi (wef April 14, 2025)
	
	
Amitabha Mukhopadhyay (wef April 14, 2025)
	
	
Naresh T. Raisinghani (wef April 14, 2025)
	
	
Anu Arun Wakhlu (wef April 14, 2025)
	
	
Mandar Velankar (wef April 14, 2025)
	
	
Transactions entered into with related parties during the year and balances as at the year end:
 
 
(i) Principal Shareholders:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Transactions during the year:
Sudarshan Switzerland HLD1 AG (formerly Heubach Holding 
Switzerland AG)
Purchase of goods
4,537.77
6,115.09
Indenting commission received
92.38
460.79
Information technology service charges
-
873.39
Royalty expenses
171.26
119.10
 
 
(ii) Fellow subsidiaries:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Transactions during the year:
Sales of goods
Heubach Colorants Singapore Pte. Ltd.
13,282.75
22,398.12
Heubach Colorants Pigment Preparations (Tianjin) Ltd.
165.43
-
Heubach Colorants Japan K.K.
215.93
-
Heubach Colorants (Shanghai) Ltd.
1,936.78
-
Heubach Colorants USA LLC
7,742.11
-
Heubach Color Pvt Ltd
148.06
1,335.74
Purchase / (Return) of goods
Heubach Colorants Singapore Pte. Ltd.
670.41
888.33
Heubach Color Pvt Ltd
2,270.41
4,143.84
Heubach Colorants México, S.A. de C.V.
18.41
16.48
Heubach Colorants Brasil Ltda.
6.92
-
Heubach GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
507.99
-
Heubach Colorants Germany GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
9.13
11.52
Heubach Colorants Pigment Preparations (Tianjin) Ltd.
-
67.05
Heubach Colorants USA LLC
3.08
-
Sudarshan Langelsheim PLT GmbH (wef March 04, 2025)
53.64
-
Heubach Colorants Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd
(5.33)
10.66
Services rendered
Heubach Colorants Pigment Preparations (Tianjin) Ltd.
15.91
6.00
Heubach Colorants Germany GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
173.13
-
Heubach Colorants México, S.A. de C.V.
47.82
10.26
Heubach Colorants Singapore Pte. Ltd.
11.53
-
Heubach Colorants Japan K.K.
44.65
9.06
Heubach Colorants (Shanghai) Ltd.
62.99
8.13
Heubach GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
78.42
-
Heubach Colorants USA LLC
56.32
10.26
Heubach Holding Switzerland AG
6.26
9.06
Heubach LTD A New Jersey Limited Partnership
28.28
8.13
Heubach Colorants Brasil Ltda.
90.53
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
154
155
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Interest Income
Heubach Colorants Singapore Pte. Ltd.
-
367.07
Expenses recovered
Heubach Pigments Private Limited
-
36.91
Services received
Heubach Group GmbH (upto March 03, 2025)
611.78
345.10
Heubach Colour Private Limited
23.11
30.77
 
 
(iii) Key management personnel:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Executive Directors
Short-term employee benefits
461.02
416.05
Post-employment benefits
24.68
21.88
Total Remuneration
485.70
437.93
Non-Executive Directors
Sitting fees
88.20
41.40
Commission
15.00
30.00
Total Remuneration
103.20
71.40
 
 
(iv) Balances outstanding as at the year end:
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Principal Shareholders:
Trade payables
543.56
1,524.70
Trade receivables
42.93
610.56
Fellow Subsidiaries:
Trade payables
1,339.87
1,792.30
Trade receivables
4,487.26
8,552.04
Key Management Personnel:
Payable balance
176.01
74.39
41	 Segment Information:
	
(a)	 The Company had been reporting its operating segments as (1) Plastic and Coating and (2) Specialty Chemicals. 
However, from the previous financial year, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) has revisited their review 
of the company’s performance and allocation of resources to be under a single operating segment viz “ Colorants” 
having similar economic characteristics primarily with operations in India. As such, the Company’s business activity 
falls within a single primary business segment viz “ Colorants” in line with IND AS -108 “Operating Segments”.
	
(b)	 Disaggregated revenue information
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
31-03-2025
31-03-2024
Sale of Goods - "Colorants"
79,148.41
76,366.54
Sale of Services
2,655.38
1,704.04
Total Revenue from contracts with customers
81,803.79
78,070.58
Geographical Location of Customers
India
55,423.96
53,344.71
Outside India
26,379.83
24,725.87
Total Revenue from contracts with customers
81,803.79
78,070.58
Timing of Revenue Recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
79,148.41
76,366.54
Service transferred at a point over time
2,655.38
1,704.04
Total Revenue from contracts with customers
81,803.79
78,070.58
42	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, the date 
on which the Code will come into effect has not been notified and the final rules/interpretation have not yet been issued. 
The Company will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period 
the Code becomes effective.
43	 Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP)
	
(a)	For Capital-work-in progress ageing schedule
	
	
31 March 2025
(C in Lakhs)
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
More than 
1 years upto 
2 years
More than 
2 years upto 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
203.78
241.18
26.17
4.25
475.38
	
	
31 March 2024
(C in Lakhs)
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
More than 
1 years upto 
2 years
More than 
2 years upto 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
151.52
185.72
21.12
28.50
386.85
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
156
157
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
(b)	In case of the following projects (CWIP), where completion is overdue or has exceeded its 
cost compared to its original plan:
	
	
31 March 2025
(C in Lakhs)
CWIP
To be completed in
Less than 
1 year
More than 
1 years upto 2 
years
More than 
2 years upto 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
Project 1 (Completion over due)
355.72
2.45
-
-
Project 2 (Exceeded its cost compared to its 
original plan)
-
-
-
-
	
	
31 March 2024
(C in Lakhs)
CWIP
To be completed in
Less than 
1 year
More than 
1 years upto 2 
years
More than 
2 years upto 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
Project 1 (Completion over due)
289.44
40.94
-
-
Project 2 (Exceeded its cost compared to its 
original plan)
-
-
-
-
	
	
No projects have been temporarily suspended and exceeded their original budgets for the year ended March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024
44	 Other Statutory Information
	
i)	
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the 
company for holding any Benami property.
	
ii)	
There are no assets hypothicated against the bank limits sanctioned. The bank limits are unsecured. Hence, the 
company is not obliged to send quarterly returns or statement of current assets.
	
iii)	
The company has not been declared a wilful defaulter as defined by RBI Circular.
	
iv)	
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the 
statutory period.
	
v)	
Since, the Company does not have any subsidiary, the provisions of Section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013, read 
with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017, are not applicable.
	
vi)	 The Company has not entered into scheme of arrangement during the financial year 2024-25.
	
vii)	 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
	
viii)	 (i)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
	
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
ix)	
(ii)	 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:”
	
	
	
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
x)	
During the year, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed any income in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961). Accordingly, 
there are no transaction which are not recorded in the books of accounts.
45	 The Company do not have transactions with Struck off Companies under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 
560 of Companies Act, 1956.
46	 Leases
	
A)	 Leases where the Company is a Lessee
	
	
(i)	 The movement in Lease liabilities during the year
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Opening balance
2,702.37
-
Additions during the year
-
2,832.47
Finance costs incurred during the year
232.18
179.64
Payment for lease liabilities
(425.37)
(309.74)
Closing balance
2,509.19
2,702.37
	
	
(ii)	The carrying value of the Rights-of-use and depreciation charged during the year
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Opening balance
2,611.26
8.14
Additions during the year
-
2,832.47
Depreciation charged during the year
(314.88)
(229.35)
Closing balance
2,296.38
2,611.26
	
	
(iii)	Amount Recognised in Statement of Profit & Loss Account during the Year
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
314.88
229.35
Interest expense on lease liabilities
232.18
179.64
Expense relating to short-term leases/Low value leases (included in 
other expenses)
97.60
179.47
Total Expenses
644.66
588.46
	
	
(iv)	Amounts recognised in statement of cash flows
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Total Cash outflow for Leases
(425.37)
(309.74)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
158
159
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
(v)	 Maturity analysis of lease liabilities
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Maturity Analysis of contractual undiscounted cash flows
Less than one year
228.43
211.88
One to five years
1,248.59
1,077.55
More than five years
1,032.17
1,412.94
Total undiscounted Lease Liability
2,509.19
2,702.37
	
	
(vi)	Balances of Lease Liabilities
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Non current lease liabilities
2,280.76
2,490.49
Current lease liabilities
228.43
211.88
Total lease liabilities
2,509.19
2,702.37
	
B)	 Leases where the Company is a Lessor
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Lease income
64.46
61.39
	
	
Maturity anlalysis of lease payment receivables
(C in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
As at 
31-03-2024
Less than one year
47.07
64.46
One to five years
-
47.07
More than five years
-
-
Total lease liabilities
47.07
111.53
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
47	 Ratios
(C in Lakhs)
S 
No.
Ratio
Formula
Particulars
31-Mar-25
Ratio as on
31-Mar-24
Ratio as on
Variation
Reason (If 
variation is 
more than 
25%)
Numerator
Denominator
Numerator
Denominator
31-Mar-25
Numerator
Denominator
31-Mar-24
(a) Current 
Ratio
Current Assets 
/ Current 
Liabilities
Current Assets= 
Inventories 
+ Current 
Investment 
+ Trade 
Receivable + 
Cash & Cash 
Equivalents + 
Other Current 
Assets+ Assets 
held for Sale
Current Liability= 
Short term 
borrowings + 
Trade Payables 
+ Other financial 
Liability+ Current 
tax (Liabilities)+ 
Provisions + Other 
Current Liability
55,056.94
19,662.55
2.80
47,899.31
21,488.29
2.23
26% Substantial 
increase 
in Cash 
and Cash 
Equivalents
(b) Debt-Equity 
Ratio
Debt / Equity
Debt= long 
term borrowing 
and current 
maturities of 
long-term 
borrowings and 
redeemable 
preference 
shares treated 
as financial 
liability
Equity= Equity 
+ Reserve and 
Surplus
-
52,333.65
-
-
47,244.13
-
0%
(c) Debt 
Service 
Coverage 
Ratio
Net Operating 
Income / Debt 
Service
Net Operating 
Income= Net 
profit after 
taxes + Non-
cash operating 
expenses + 
finance cost
Debt Service 
= Interest & 
Lease Payments 
+ Principal 
Repayments
7,508.37
425.37
17.65
6,594.04
309.74
21.29
(17%)
(d) Return on 
Equity Ratio
Profit after 
tax less pref. 
Dividend x 
100 / Average 
Shareholder's 
Equity
Net Income= 
Net Profits after 
taxes
(Opening 
Shareholder's 
Equity + Closing 
Shareholder's 
Equity)/2
5,144.44
49,788.89
0.1033
4,113.85
44,315.32
0.0928
11%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
160
161
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C in Lakhs)
S 
No.
Ratio
Formula
Particulars
31-Mar-25
Ratio as on
31-Mar-24
Ratio as on
Variation
Reason (If 
variation is 
more than 
25%)
Numerator
Denominator
Numerator
Denominator
31-Mar-25
Numerator
Denominator
31-Mar-24
(e) Inventory 
Turnover 
Ratio
Cost of Goods 
Sold / Average 
Inventory
Cost of Goods 
Sold
(Opening 
Inventory 
+ Closing 
Inventory)/2
47,724.76
12,770.89
3.74
48,543.93
12,665.43
3.83
(2%)
(f)
Trade 
Receivables 
Turnover 
Ratio
Net Credit 
Sales / 
Average Trade 
Receivables
Net Credit Sales (Opening Trade 
Receivables + 
Closing Trade 
Receivable)/2
81,803.79
17,429.53
4.69
78,070.58
20,632.74
3.78
24%
(g) Trade 
Payables 
Turnover 
Ratio
Net Credit 
Purchases / 
Average Trade 
Payables
Net Credit 
Purchases
(Opening Trade 
Payables + 
Closing Trade 
Payables)/2
51,688.64
16,710.42
3.09
50,256.68
17,625.84
2.85
8%
(h) Net Capital 
Turnover 
Ratio
Revenue 
/ Average 
Working 
Capital
Revenue
Average Working 
Capital= Average 
of Current 
assets – Current 
liabilities
82,505.75
30,902.71
2.67
79,070.15
24,739.73
3.20
(17%)
(i)
Net Profit 
Ratio
Net Profit / 
Net Sales
Net Profit
Net Sales
5,144.44
81,803.79
0.06
4,113.85
78,070.58
0.05
20%
(j)
Return on 
Capital 
Employed
EBIT / Capital 
Employed
EBIT= Earnings 
before interest 
and taxes
Capital 
Employed= Total 
Assets - Current 
Liability
7,072.18
56,148.50
0.13
5,819.17
51,062.03
0.11
18%
(k) Return on 
Investment
Net Profit 
/ Net 
Investment
Net Profit
Net Investment= 
Net Equity
5,144.44
52,333.65
0.10
4,113.85
47,244.13
0.09
11%
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
48	 During the year, Heubach GmbH, a related party of the Company and a member of the Heubach Group, had filed an application 
for opening of regular insolvency proceedings over its assets with the competent insolvency court in Braunschweig, 
Germany and, a preliminary Insolvency Administrator and Preliminary Custodian had been appointed by the competent 
court. Further, Heubach Group GmbH, also a member of the Heubach Group and the holding company of Heubach Holding 
Switzerland AG (a promoter shareholder of the Company and formerly known as Colorants International AG), had also filed 
an application for insolvency proceedings over its assets with the competent insolvency court in Braunschweig together 
with certain of its affiliate companies.
	
On October 11, 2024, Sudarshan Europe BV (“”the Acquirer””), a subsidiary of Sudarshan Chemical Industries Ltd (“PAC”), 
has entered into a purchase agreement to acquire all shares held by the promoters in the Company.
	
Subsequently, the Company received a copy of the Public Announcement dated October 16, 2024 (“”Public Announcement””) 
regarding an Open Offer for the acquisition of up to 6,001,268 fully paid equity shares with a face value of C10 each, 
representing 26% of the Company’s Equity Share Capital, from public shareholders (as defined in the Public Announcement). 
This Open Offer has been issued by the Acquirer along with PAC in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
	
On March 3, 2025, the Acquirer completed the acquisition of business from the insolvent German Group Companies, 
including the participations held by Heubach Holding Switzerland AG (“”PAC-2””) in its subsidiary companies. This included 
the investment in the Company’s equity shares through a Sale and Purchase Agreement (“”SPA””) with SK Neptune Husky 
Finance S.à.r.l. The acquisition involved the entire shareholding in Heubach Holdings S.à.r.l., which further held investments 
in companies based in India and the USA. As a result, the Acquirer became entitled to indirectly exercise 54.36% of 
the Voting Share Capital and control over the Company. Consequently, the Acquirer has acquired indirect control over 
the Company.
49	 On January 1, 2025, a fire broke out at a Warehouse in Company’s Plant, located at Plot No. 113/114, MIDC Dhatav, Near 
Police Station, Kolad–Roha Road, A.V. Roha A.V. P. O. - Dhatav, Taluka – Roha, Dist.-Raigad 402 116, India. The warehouse 
is used for storage of “Pigment in Process Goods” used for final manufacturing. There have been no injuries or casualties. 
The company has adequate insurance coverage against this loss. The Company assessed the loss of Property, Plant and 
Equipment, as well as Inventories, amounting to C10.32 crore, and submitted a claim to the insurance provider. A surveyor 
appointed by the insurer is currently reviewing the claim. Based on the initial assessment, the insurer has made an advance 
payment of C1.5 crore. The Company has disclosed these matters as Exceptional Items in the financial statements for the 
year ending March 31, 2025.
50	 During the year 2019, the Company, on the basis of an independent valuation, obtained approval from its Board of Directors 
for the transfer of certain furniture and fixtures and other assets located at the Airoli Office to Clariant India Private Limited 
(‘CIPL’), a related party at C25.81 Crores. Due to various reasons, the transfer of these assets could not be concluded till 
2021. The current management noticed that certain identified assets belonging to the Company were unauthorisedly 
transferred to CIPL without due approval from the Board of Directors. Upon becoming aware of the matter, the Board 
of Directors engaged external independent agencies to conduct a fact-finding exercise relating to the transaction . The 
Company continued to engage in negotiations to recover the assets and mitigate any potential adverse impact arising from 
the transaction. As of the date of these financial statements, the matter remains under review. Additionally, based on the 
fact-finding report, the Company is evaluating various legal options to determine the appropriate course of action. A final 
resolution including effects, if any, on the financial statements is pending.
51	 The Company has maintained its books of account using an accounting software that is managed and maintained by 
a third-party service provider. This software includes a feature for recording an audit trail (edit log) of transactions as 
required under Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014. The audit trail feature was enabled and operated 
for all relevant transactions recorded in the accounting software during the year. However, the audit trail feature was not 
enabled at the database level of the said software to log any direct data changes. Further, the audit trail of prior year, has 
been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it was enabled and 
recorded in the previous year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
162
163
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
52	 The Company maintains its books of account and other relevant books and papers in electronic mode as permitted under 
the Companies Act, 2013. Daily backups of such books and papers are taken and properly maintained. However, the servers 
on which the backups of the books of account and other relevant records are maintained are physically located outside 
India, which is in compliance with the provisions of Rule 3 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, and Rule 11(g) of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, to the extent applicable.
53	 The figures for the previous year have been regrouped/recasted wherever necessary, to conform to the current 
year’s classification.
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Heubach Colorants India Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Sambit Roy
Jugal Sahu
Managing Director
Director & CFO
DIN: 08291664
DIN: 02629782
Udit Brijesh Parikh
Sunirmal Talukdar
Kewal Handa
Partner
Director
Director
Membership No.: 151016
DIN: 00920608
DIN: 00056826
Ashwini Natekar
Mumbai
Company Secretary
July 16, 2025
Membership No: A65477
164
Heubach Colorants India Limited
www.heubach.com
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
(Formerly known as Clariant Chemicals (India) Limited)
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33 MIDC Road, TTC 
Industrial Area, Juinagar Navi Mumbai - 400 705 India
Concept, content and design by  
  |  contact@reportyak.com
 
2024-25
 
1 
 
 
 
Notice 
 
 
NOTICE OF THE  68TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
NOTICE is hereby given that the Sixty Eighth Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’’) of the Members of the Company 
will be held on Monday, September 29, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio-
Visual Means (“OAVM”) to transact the following business. The venue of the meeting shall be deemed to be the 
Registered Office of the Company at Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33 MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, 
Juinagar, Navi Mumbai 400705, India.  
 
ORDINARY BUSINESS: 
 
1. To receive, consider and adopt the audited financial statements of the Company for the Financial Year                  
ended March 31, 2025, together with the Report of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon –                
Ordinary Resolution 
 
2. To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Rajesh Rathi (DIN: 00018628), Chairman and Non-Executive and                
Non-Independent Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rules made thereunder, and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment – Ordinary Resolution 
 
3. To consider and if though fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an                
Ordinary Resolution –  
Reappointment of M/s. MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants, as Statutory Auditors of the 
Company  
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Sections 139, 141, 142 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof) and pursuant to the recommendations of the Audit Committee and 
the Board of Directors of the Company, M/s. MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
Number: 105047W) be and are hereby reappointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company for the second 
term of five consecutive years, who shall hold office from the conclusion of this 68th AGM till the conclusion 
of the 73rd AGM to be held in the year 2030, at such remuneration as may be determined by the Board of 
Directors of the Company (including its committees thereof).  
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company, (including its committees thereof), be 
and are hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed proper, 
necessary, or expedient, including filing the requisite forms or submission of documents with any authority or 
accepting any modifications to the clauses as required by such authorities, for the purpose of giving effect to 
this resolution and for matters connected therewith, or incidental thereto.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
 
SPECIAL BUSINESS: 
 
4. To consider and if though fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an                
Ordinary Resolution –  
Ratification for payment of remuneration to M/s. Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost Accountants,              
Cost Auditors for Financial Year 2025-26 to conduct audit of cost records of the Company  
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), consent of the members be and is hereby 
accorded for ratifying the payment of ₹3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs only) plus applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses, if any, payable to the Company’s Cost Auditor, M/s. Kishore Bhatia 
& Associates, Cost Accountants, who were appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company based on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee, for conduct audit of cost records of the Company for Financial 
Year 2025-26.   
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised to take all such actions and to do all 
such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be considered necessary, desirable and expedient for the 
purpose of giving effect to this Resolution.” 
5. To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s) the following resolution as an                
Ordinary Resolution -  
Appointment of Secretarial Auditor for a term of five consecutive years from FY 2025-26 to FY 2029-30 
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 24A of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015), 
as amended, and  Sections 179 and 204 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”), read with Rule 8  of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and Rule 9 
of the Companies (Appointment & Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), and as recommended by the 
Board of Directors of the Company, consent of the Company be and is hereby accorded for appointment of 
M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries  (Peer Review Certificate Number – 1238/2021) (UIN: 
S1999MH025400 and Certificate of Practice No. 3068) as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company, to 
undertake audit of secretarial and related records and to furnish the Secretarial Audit Report for a term of five 
(5) consecutive financial years, commencing from FY2025-26 till FY2029-30. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorized to fix the 
annual remuneration plus applicable taxes and out-of-pocket expenses payable to them during their tenure 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company, as may be mutually agreed between the Board and the 
Secretarial Auditor from time to time.  
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and are hereby authorized to take such steps and 
do all such acts, deeds, matters, and things as may be considered necessary, proper, and expedient to give 
effect to this Resolution.” 
 
 
 
 
 
2024-25
 
3 
 
 
 
NOTES: 
 
1. 
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in respect of the               
Special Business to be transacted at the 68th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), and statement of additional 
information as required under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015”), and as per Secretarial Standard – 2 on 
General Meetings issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) is annexed and forms an 
integral part of the Notice.  
2. 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) pursuant to the General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated 8th  April 2020, 
17/2020 dated 13th April 2020, read with other relevant circulars issued in this regard, the latest being General 
Circular No. 09/2024 dated 19th September, 2024 (“MCA Circulars ”) read with Circulars issued from time to 
time by Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), the latest being General Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFDPoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated 3rd October, 2024  (MCA circulars and SEBI Circulars 
hereinafter collectively referred to as “Circulars”) read with Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (“SS-
2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and any other applicable laws, rules and 
regulations (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), 
has allowed the Companies to conduct the AGM through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual 
Means (“OAVM”) until 30th September 2025. In accordance with the said Circulars and applicable provisions 
of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the 68th AGM of the Company shall be conducted through 
VC / OAVM without physical presence of Members at common venue. National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) will be providing facility for voting through remote e-voting, for participation in the AGM through VC 
/ OAVM facility and e-voting during the AGM. The procedure for participating in the meeting through VC / 
OAVM is explained in the notes below and is also available on the website of the Company at 
www.heubach.com. 
3. 
As explained above, the AGM is being conducted though VC / OAVM, in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act and Rules made thereunder, SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 and as per the abovementioned MCA and 
SEBI Circulars. In accordance with the Secretarial Standard – 2 issued by ICSI, read with clarification / guidance 
on applicability of Secretarial Standards – 1 and 2 issued from time to time, the proceedings of the AGM shall 
be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office and Global Head Office of the Company which shall be 
deemed to be the venue of the AGM. 
4. 
A member entitled to vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and 
proxy need not be a member of the Company. In terms of the MCA Circulars, as the AGM is to be conducted 
through VC / OAVM, and since physical attendance of member is dispensed with, there is no requirement of 
appointment of proxies. Therefore, the facility for appointments of Proxy by the Members is not available for this 
AGM and hence the Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and Route Map are not annexed to this Notice. In this Notice, 
the terms member(s) or shareholder(s) are used interchangeably. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF NOTICE AND ANNUAL REPORT AND PROCESS FOR REGISTRATION OF 
EMAIL ID FOR OBTAINING COPY OF ANNUAL REPORT: 
 
In accordance with the above-mentioned Circulars issued by the MCA and SEBI from time to time, copies of the 
financial statements (including Report of Board of Directors, Auditor’s report or other documents required to be 
attached therewith), including the Notice of AGM are being sent only in electronic mode to Members whose e-
mail address is registered with the Company / Registrar and Transfer Agent, MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited) (“RTA”/ “MUFG”) or Depository Participant(s) (“DP”).                   
The Company will not be dispatching physical copies of such statements and Notice of AGM to any member. 
 
 
For members who have not received the notice due to change / non - registration of their email 
address with the Company / RTA / DP, they may do so by following the procedure given below: 
 
 
Registration of email id with Company / RTA / DP – 
 
Members are requested to register their e-mail address with their concerned DPs in respect of electronic 
holding. Members are requested to register their e-mail address with the Company/RTA in respect of physical 
holding, by visiting the link: https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/KYC-downloads.html which provides further 
information about the registration process. Further, those Members who have already registered their e-mail 
addresses are requested to ensure that their e-mail ID is valid or in case of change, update the same with 
their DPs/RTA to enable service of notices/documents/Integrated Reports and other communications 
electronically to their e-mail address in future. In case of any queries/difficulties in registering the email 
address, Members may write to investor.relations_india@heubach.com. 
 
5. 
A copy of the Notice of this AGM along with Annual Report for the FY 2024-25, is available on the website of the 
Company at www.heubach.com, on the website of Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively, and on the website 
of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl. com. All the members whose names are recorded in the Register of Members or in 
the List of Beneficial Owners maintained by the depositories as on August 29, 2025 will be considered for the 
purpose of sending the Notice of AGM and the Annual Report for FY2024-25. Further, a letter communicating the 
web-link, including the exact path, where complete details of the Annual Report is being sent to the shareholders 
who have not registered their email addresses with the company. 
 
PROCEDURE FOR JOINING THE AGM THROUGH VC / OAVM: 
 
6. 
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned below in the Notice for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. 
After successful login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join General Meeting” menu against 
company name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed under Join General Meeting menu. The link 
for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/ Member login where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
Please note that the members who do not have the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User 
ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice 
to avoid last minute rush. 
 
 
 
2024-25
 
5 
 
 
 
7. 
For convenience of the members and proper conduct of AGM, members can login and join at least 30 (thirty) 
minutes before the time scheduled for the AGM and shall be kept open throughout the proceedings of AGM.                 
The facility of participation at the AGM through VC / OAVM will be made available on first come first serve basis. 
The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available to at least 1,000 Members on a 
first come first serve basis as per the MCA Circulars. This will not include large shareholders (shareholders holding 
2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Auditors, 
Chairman/Chairperson of the Committees of the Board of Directors, as applicable, etc. who are allowed to attend 
the AGM without the said restriction. 
8. 
Members who need assistance before or during the AGM with use of technology, can send a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com or use Toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 /1800 224 430; or contact Mr. Sagar Gudhate, Senior 
Manager, NSDL at the designated email ID: evoting@nsdl.com 
9. 
Institutional Members are encouraged to attend and vote at the AGM through VC / OAVM. In case any Institutional 
Members, facing issues for participating in AGM can write to investor.relations_india@heubach.com.  
10. Please note that participants connecting from Mobile devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio / Video loss due to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
11. Pursuant to the abovementioned MCA Circulars, physical attendance of the members is not required at the AGM, and 
therefore members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act. 
 
PROCEDURE FOR SPEAKER REGISTRATION, SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS / QUERIES: 
 
12. As the AGM is being conducted through VC / OAVM, for the smooth conduct of proceedings of the AGM, 
members are encouraged to express their views / send their queries in advance mentioning their name, demat 
account number / folio number, email id, mobile number, their queries / views / questions at 
shares@sudarshan.com. 
13. Members holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e. Monday, September 22, 2025, and who would like to speak 
or express their views or ask questions during the AGM may register themselves as speakers by sending an 
email to asjoshi@sudarshan.com during Wednesday, September 24, 2025, 9:00 a.m. (IST) to                
Sunday, September 28, 2025, 5.00 p.m. (IST). Those members who have registered themselves as a speaker 
will only be allowed to speak/express their views/ask questions during the AGM. 
14. Members can also express their views or post their questions during the AGM through a facility available in the 
VC / OAVM facility. 
15. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of questions and number of speakers, as appropriate 
for smooth conduct of the AGM. 
16. Pursuant to Section 108 of the Act, read with the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 
(“Rules”), as amended, and in compliance with Regulation 44 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, as amended, and 
the Circulars issued by MCA, the Company is pleased to provide voting by electronic means (“remote e-voting”) 
to the Members, to enable them to cast their votes electronically in respect of the business to be transacted at the 
AGM. For this the Company has entered into an agreement with NSDL for facilitating voting through electronic 
means, as the authorised agency. The facility of casting votes by a member using remote e-voting system will 
be provided by NSDL. The e-voting Event Number (“EVEN”) for this purpose is ‘136575’. 
 
 
6 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
17. The voting rights will be reckoned on the paid-up value of Equity Shares registered in the name of the members 
on Monday, September 22, 2025 (on close of business hours) (“Cut-off date”). Only those Members whose names 
are recorded in the Register of Members of the Company or in the Register of Beneficial Owners maintained by the 
Depositories as on the Cut-off date will be entitled to cast their votes by remote e-voting. 
18. The details of the process and manner for remote e-voting are explained herein below: 
 
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system? 
 
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned 
below: 
 
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system 
 
A) Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode 
 
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account 
maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile 
number and email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility. 
 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below: 
 
Type of shareholders 
Login Method 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL 
1. 
For 
OTP 
based 
login 
you 
can 
click 
on 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/evotinglogin.jsp. 
You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., 
Verification code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on 
registered email id/mobile number and click on login. After 
successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL 
Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will 
be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period. 
2. 
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. 
https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a 
mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial 
Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, 
this will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. 
After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” 
under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. 
Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and 
you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period. 
3. 
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is 
available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.  Select “Register Online for 
IDeAS 
Portal” 
or 
click 
at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp  
4. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing 
the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
 
2024-25
 
7 
 
 
 
Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of  
e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is 
available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will 
open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a 
Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-
Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-
Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-
Voting period. 
 
5. 
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App 
“NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below 
for seamless voting experience. 
 
  
 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL 
1. 
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login 
through their existing user id and password. Option will be made 
available 
to 
reach 
e-Voting 
page 
without 
any 
further 
authentication. The users to login Easi / Easiest are requested to 
visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & 
New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing myeasi 
username & password. 
2. 
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see 
the e-Voting option for eligible companies where the e-voting is in 
progress as per the information-n provided by company. On 
clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting 
page of the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during 
the remote e-Voting period. Additionally, there is also links 
provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, 
so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website 
directly. 
3. 
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is 
available at CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login 
& New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option. 
4. 
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by 
providing Demat Account Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting 
link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & 
Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where 
the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers. 
 
 
8 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) 
login 
through 
their 
depository participants 
1. 
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account 
through your Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for  
e-Voting facility. 
2. 
Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting 
option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after 
successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature.  
3. 
Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you 
will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period. 
 
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website. 
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL. 
 
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 7000 
 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free 
no. 1800-21-09911 
 
 
B) Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode. 
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website? 
 
1. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.  
2. 
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. 
3. 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a 
Verification Code as shown on the screen. 
 
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices 
after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your 
vote electronically. 
 
4. 
Your User ID details are given below: 
 
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or 
CDSL) or Physical 
 Your User ID is: 
a) For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with NSDL. 
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID 
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client 
ID is 12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******. 
b) For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with CDSL. 
16 Digit Beneficiary ID 
For 
example 
if 
your 
Beneficiary 
ID 
is 
12************** then your user ID is 12************** 
c) For Members holding shares in Physical Form. 
EVEN Number 
followed by Folio Number 
registered with the company 
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 
136575 then user ID is 136575001*** 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:  
 
2024-25
 
9 
 
 
 
 
a) If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can user your existing password to login 
and cast your vote. 
 
b) If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’ which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need 
to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system will force you to change your password. 
 
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’? 
(i) 
If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open 
the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL 
account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares held in 
physical form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.  
(ii) 
If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in process for 
those shareholders whose email ids are not registered.  
 
 
6. If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your 
password: 
 
a) Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
 
b)  Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
 
c) If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, your name and 
your registered address etc. 
 
d) Members can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-
Voting system of NSDL. 
 
7. After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box. 
8. Now, you will have to click on “Login” button. 
9. After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open. 
 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join the General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system. 
 
How to cast your vote electronically and join the General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system? 
 
1. After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding 
shares and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status. 
2. Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed 
under “Join Meeting”. 
3. Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens. 
4. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for 
which you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted. 
5. Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.  
6. You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print option on the confirmation page. 
 
 
10 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
7. Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote. 
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:- 
 
1. The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-
voting. 
 
2. Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not 
cast their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall 
be eligible to vote through e-Voting system in the AGM. 
 
3. Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not 
be eligible to vote at the AGM. 
 
4. The details of the person who may be contacted for any grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on 
the day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for Remote e-voting. 
 
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER: 
 
1. Member will be provided with a facility to attend the EGM/AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting 
system. Members may access by following the steps mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. 
After successful login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu against company 
name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM 
will be available in Shareholder/Member login where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note that 
the members who do not have the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and 
Password may retrieve the same by following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid 
last minute rush. 
  
2. Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through Laptops for better experience. 
 
3. Further Members will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance 
during the meeting. 
 
4. Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
 
5. Shareholders who would like to express their views/have questions may send their questions in advance 
mentioning 
their 
name 
demat 
account 
number/folio 
number, 
email 
id, 
mobile 
number 
at 
(investor.relations_india@heubach.com). The same will be replied by the company suitably. 
 
General Guidelines for shareholders 
 
1. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy 
(PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature of 
the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to 
karunakaran2004@yahoo.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com Institutional shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter 
etc. by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab in their login. 
2. It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep 
your password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to 
key in the correct password. In such an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” 
or “Physical User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.  
 
3. In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 
 
2024-25
 
11 
 
 
 
4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 or send a request to Mr. Sagar Gudhate, Senior Manager, NSDL at 
www.evoting.nsdl.com 
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not registered with the depositories for procuring user 
id and password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the resolutions set out in this notice: 
 
1. In case shares are held in physical mode please provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of 
the share certificate (front and back), PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested 
scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by email to investor.relations_india@heubach.com). 
 
2. In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit 
beneficiary ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self-attested scanned 
copy 
of 
PAN 
card), 
AADHAR 
(self-attested 
scanned 
copy 
of 
Aadhar 
Card) 
to 
investor.relations_india@heubach.com. If you are an Individual shareholder holding securities in demat 
mode, you are requested to refer to the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-Voting 
and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode. 
 
3. Alternatively, shareholder/members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and 
password for e-Voting by providing above mentioned documents. 
 
4. In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account 
maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are required to update their mobile 
number and email ID correctly in their demat account in order to access e-Voting facility. 
 
i. The voting rights of members shall be in proportion to their shares of the paid-up Equity Share capital of the 
Company as on Monday, September 22, 2025, and who continue to hold the shares as on the date of                        
68th AGM will be entitled to vote at the AGM. 
ii. The notice of the 68th AGM is being sent to all members who are holding shares as on Friday, August 29, 
August, 2025. 
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes member of the Company after the notice is sent through e-mail and holding shares 
as of the Friday, August 29, 2025, may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com or Issuer/ RTA.  
However, if you are already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, then you can use your existing user 
ID and password for casting your vote. If you forgot your password, you can reset your password by using 
“Forgot User Details/ Password” or “Physical User Reset Password” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no. 1800 1020 990 and 1800 2244 30. In case of Individual 
Shareholders holding securities in demat mode who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a 
Member of the Company after sending of the Notice and holding shares as of Friday, 29th  August, 2025, may 
follow steps mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under “Access to NSDL e-Voting system”. 
The Cut-off Date for determining the eligibility of Members for voting through remote e-voting and e-voting at 
the AGM is Monday, September 22, 2025. Members may cast their votes on electronic voting system from 
any place (remote e-voting). The remote e-voting period will commence at 9.00 a.m. (IST) on Wednesday, 
September 24, 2025 and will end at 5.00 p.m. (IST) on Sunday, September 28, 2025. 
 
 
The remote e-voting module shall be disabled for voting thereafter. 
 
 
12 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
In addition, the e-voting window shall be activated upon instruction of the Chairman of the meeting during 
the AGM. The e-voting during the AGM is integrated with the VC / OAVM platform and therefore no separate 
login is required. 
Members attending the AGM who have not cast their vote by remote e-voting and are otherwise not barred 
from doing so shall be eligible to cast their vote through e-voting during the AGM. Members who have voted 
through remote e-voting shall be eligible to attend the AGM, however, they shall not be eligible to vote at the 
meeting. Once the vote on a resolution is cast by the member, the member shall not be allowed to change it 
subsequently. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to access the remote e-voting facility 
provided by the Company through NSDL e-voting system at https://www. evoting.nsdl.com/. 
iii. Mr. Rajesh Karunakaran, Practicing Company Secretary, Pune, (Membership No. FCS 7441 & CP No. 
6581) has been appointed as a Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process in a fair and transparent 
manner. 
iv. The Scrutinizer shall after the conclusion of remote e-voting, will first count the votes cast during the meeting 
and thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses 
not in the employment of the Company and shall make a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorised by him in writing, who shall countersign 
the same and declare the result of voting forthwith. 
The Results declared along with a Scrutinizer’s Report will be placed on the Company’s website at 
www.heubach.com and on the website of NSDL at www.nsdl.com immediately after the result is declared by 
the Chairman or a person authorised by him and simultaneously be forwarded to the Stock Exchanges viz. 
BSE and NSE at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively. The results will be announced 
within the time stipulated under the applicable laws. 
20. (a)  Pursuant to Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013, and Rules made thereunder, as amended, all 
unclaimed dividends for the Final Dividend relating to FY 2016-17 and the underlying shares have been 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) of the Central Government. Unclaimed 
dividends for subsequent years will also be transferred to the IEPF if they remain unclaimed for a period of 
seven consecutive years from the date they became due for payment. Members can claim back such 
dividend and shares including all benefits accruing on such shares from IEPF Authority by following the 
procedure prescribed in the Rules i.e., by making an online application in the prescribed Form IEPF-5 and 
sending the physical copy of the same, duly signed (as per the specimen signature recorded with the 
Company), along with requisite documents enumerated in the Form IEPF-5, to the Nodal Officer of the 
Company. For more information relating to unpaid/unclaimed dividend, members are requested to refer to 
the Shareholders Information section forming part of this Annual Report. 
(b) 
In terms of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has opened a demat account by name “Heubach 
Colorants India Limited Unclaimed Shares Suspense Account” and has transferred to the said account 
unclaimed shares on behalf of various shareholders who have not collected their shares till date, if any. In case 
any member approaches the Company for the collection of his / her unclaimed shares, then in such an event, 
the Company shall complete the necessary formalities for release of his / her shares subject to completion of 
necessary documentation. 
 
 
 
(c) 
It may be in the interest of Members to hold securities in joint names. 
 
2024-25
 
13 
 
 
 
(d) 
As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, as amended, securities of the listed entity can be 
transferred only in dematerialized form with effect from 1st April 2019, except in case of request received 
for transmission or transposition of securities. In view of this and to eliminate all risks associated with 
physical shares members holding shares in the physical form are therefore requested to dematerialize their 
shares in their own interest. 
(e) 
Members are advised to update their PAN, KYC (Address, Email ID, Mobile Number, Bank Account Details,  
Specimen Signature, etc.) and Nomination details, as per SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/ 
POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated May 7, 2024 and SEBI  Circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/81 
dated June 10, 2024. 
 
(i) Members holding shares in physical form: to the Company’s RTA, in prescribed Form ISR - 1 and other 
forms as per instructions mentioned in the form. The Company has already sent requisite communication 
to the Members for furnishing these details. The formats can be downloaded from RTA’s website 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/KYC-downloads.html and such formats are also available on the 
Company’s website at www.sudarshan.com. 
 
(ii) Members who hold the shares in the dematerialized form and want to change / correct the bank account 
details should send the same immediately to their concerned Depository Participant and not to the Company. 
The Company, in case of such dematerialized shares, will not entertain any direct request from such members 
for change of address, transposition of names, deletion of name of deceased joint holder and change in the 
bank account details. While making payment of dividend, the Registrar is obliged to use only the data 
provided by the Depositories. 
(f) 
Members who wish to dematerialize the shares or seek any information regarding transfer of shares are 
requested to contact the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents at the following address: 
 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited) 
C- 101, Embassy 247, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400083, 
Tel. No. 1800 1020 878 
E-mail: mumbai@in.mpms.mufg.com Website: www.mpms.mufg.com 
The Company has designated e-mail address - investor.relations_india@heubach.com for timely action on investor 
complaints. Members are requested to forward their complaints, if any, at the designated e-mail address. 
(g) Members holding shares under different folios may approach the Company for consolidation of ledger folios 
into one folio.      
(h) Members are requested to intimate changes if any, pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/ mobile numbers, Permanent Account Numbers (PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, 
bank details etc. 
 
(i) 
For shares held in electronic form: to their respective Depository Participants (DPs); 
(ii) 
For shares held in physical form: to the Company / RTA, in prescribed Form ISR-1 and other forms pursuant 
to SEBI  Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated 3rd November 2021.  
 
 
 
 
 
(i) ‘SWAYAM’ is a secure, user-friendly web-based  application, developed by MUFG Intime India Private Limited, 
our RTA, that empowers Members to effortlessly access various services. We request you to get registered 
 
 
14 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
and 
have 
first-hand 
experience 
of 
the 
portal. 
This 
application 
can 
be 
accessed 
at 
https://swayam.in.mpms.mufg.com/. For effective resolution of Service Requests i.e. Generate and Track 
Service Requests/Complaints can be done through SWAYAM. 
 
(j)  Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated January 25, 2022, has mandated listed companies to issue securities in dematerialized form only while 
processing service requests viz. Issue of Duplicate Share Certificates/Letter of Confirmation, claim from 
Unclaimed Suspense Account of the Company, renewal/exchange of securities certificate, endorsement; 
subdivision/splitting of securities certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ folios, transmission, transposition 
etc. Accordingly, members are requested to make service requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR-
4. It may be noted that any service request shall be processed only after the folio is KYC compliant. In view of the 
same and to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and to avail various benefits of dematerialization, 
members are advised to dematerialize the shares held by them in physical form. The member may contact the 
Company / RTA for assistance in this respect. It may be noted that any service request can be processed only 
after the folio is  KYC Compliant. 
 
As mentioned above, transfer of securities in physical mode was discontinued effective April 1, 2019, however, 
to facilitate ease of investing for investors and to secure their rights in the securities purchased, and pursuant 
to the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD/P/CIR/2025/97 dated July 2, 2025, the shareholders 
are hereby informed that a Special Window has been opened only for re-lodgement of transfer deeds which 
were lodged prior to the deadline of April 1, 2019 and rejected / returned / not attended, due to deficiency in 
the documents / process or otherwise. The re-lodgement window has been opened by the Company, and it 
shall remain open for a period of six months, i.e., till January 6, 2026. During this period, any securities re-
lodged for transfer including those currently pending with the Company shall be processed and issued only in 
dematerialised form, subject to verification and approval of all documents by the Company’s RTA. 
 
Shareholders who have missed the earlier deadline of March 31, 2021 are encouraged to take advantage of 
this opportunity by furnishing the necessary documents to the Company’s RTA at their office at              
C- 101, Embassy 247, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400083, 
 
(k) Members are also informed that pursuant to Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/131 dated 
July 31, 2023, read with a Corrigendum No. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 4, 
2023, Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD1/P/CIR/2023/145 dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on  
August 11, 2023), and Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/ OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195 dated December 20, 
2023, SEBI has introduced an additional mechanism for  investors to resolve their grievances by way of a 
common Online Dispute Resolution (“ODR”) mechanism to facilitate the online resolution of all kinds of disputes 
arising in the Indian securities market. Members can access the SEBI Circulars on the website of SEBI at 
https://www.sebi.gov.in/. 
 
(l) To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised to exercise due diligence and notify the Company or 
the RTA of any change in address or nominee, if any appointed, to notify demise of any Member as soon as 
possible. Members are also advised not to leave their demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statement 
of holdings should be obtained from the respective DPs and holdings should be verified from time to time. 
 
(m) Members desirous of getting any information about the accounts of the Company are requested to address their 
queries to the Company Secretary of the Company. Such requests should be received at least seven days before 
the date of the meeting, so that the information required can be readily made available at the meeting, to the best 
extent possible. 
 
(n) Members can avail of the nomination facility in respect of securities held by them in physical form as per Section 
72 of the Companies Act, 2013, Rules made thereunder and SEBI Circular dated November 3, 2021, and 
clarification Circular dated December 14, 2021. Members desiring to avail this facility may send their nomination 
in the prescribed Form SH-13 or Form ISR-3 (Declaration to Opt-out) duly filled into RTA. Members holding 
shares in the electronic form may contact their respective DP’s. The Forms may be downloaded from the 
Company’s website. 
 
(o) Details as required by Regulation 36(3) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard-2 on General 
Meeting issued by ICSI in respect of the Director seeking appointment / re-appointment at this AGM form part of the 
 
2024-25
 
15 
 
 
 
Explanatory Statement annexed hereto. 
 
(p) During the AGM, the Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding maintained under 
Section 170 of the Act, the Register of Contracts or arrangements in which Directors are interested under Section 
189 of the Act, and relevant documents referred to in this Notice of AGM and Explanatory Statement shall be 
available for electronic  inspection upon login at NSDL  e-voting system at https://www. evoting.nsdl.com and on 
the website of the Company, www.heubach.com. 
 
21. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had notified provisions relating to unpaid/unclaimed dividend under Sections 124 
and 125 of Companies Act, 2013 and Investor Education and Protection Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016. As per these Rules, dividends which are not encashed/claimed by the shareholder for a 
period of seven consecutive years shall be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (‘‘IEPF’’) 
Authority. The IEPF Rules mandate the Companies to transfer the shares of shareholders whose dividends remain 
unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years to the demat account of IEPF Authority. In terms of the 
said provisions, final dividend amount for the year ended March 31, 2018 and interim dividend amount paid during 
the year 2018-19 and remaining unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years and corresponding 
shares related to such dividend, shall become due for transfer in September, 2025 and December, 2025 
respectively, to IEPF Fund. Hence, the Company urges all the shareholders to encash/ claim their respective 
dividend during the prescribed period. A list containing details of shareholders whose dividend and corresponding 
shares are liable to be transferred to IEPF Fund in September, 2025, and December, 2025 as explained above, is 
available on the website of the Company. The Member(s) whose dividend/shares as transferred to the IEPF 
Authority can now claim their shares from the Authority by following the Refund Procedure as detailed on the website 
of IEPF Authority http://iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html. 
 
22. Members are requested to contact MUFG Intime/Investor Service Department of the Company for encashing the 
unclaimed dividends standing to the credit of their account. The detailed dividend history and due dates for transfer 
to IEPF are available on the website of the Company at www.sudarshan.com. 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors 
For Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
Adwait Joshi 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: ACS 39132 
        
        Navi Mumbai, August 11, 2025 
 
 
              
Heubach Colorants India Limited  
Registered Office:                                                                 
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33,  
MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar,  
Navi Mumbai, Thane, Maharashtra, India, 400705 
CIN : L24110MH1956PLC010806 
Website: www.heubach.com  
Email: investor.relations_india@heubach.com
 
 
16 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
Explanatory statement pursuant to section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 
 
In conformity with the provisions of section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013, and statement of additional information as 
required under SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the following Explanatory statement sets out all material facts relating 
to the Ordinary Business / Special Business mentioned in the Notice and should be taken as forming part of the Notice. 
 
 
ITEM NO. 3 OF THE NOTICE: 
 
M/s. MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration Number 105047W), (hereinafter referred to as MSKA) 
were appointed as statutory auditors of the Company in the casual vacancy caused by the resignation of M/s. Price Waterhouse 
Chartered Accountant LLP, for a term of 5 (Five) years i.e. till the conclusion of 68th AGM.  
 
In terms of the provisions of Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, and other 
applicable provisions, the Company can appoint or reappoint an audit firm as statutory auditors for not more than two (2) terms of 
five (5) consecutive years. MSKA is eligible for reappointment for a further period of five years. Based on the recommendations of 
the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on July 16, 2025, approved the reappointment of MSKA as statutory 
auditors of the Company to hold office for a second term of five consecutive years from the conclusion of the ensuing AGM until 
the conclusion of the 73rd AGM to be held in the year 2030. The reappointment is subject to approval of the shareholders of the 
Company. MSKA have informed that their reappointment, if made, would be within the limits prescribed under Section 141 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
 
The proposed remuneration to be paid to MSKA for audit services for the financial year ending March 31, 2026, is as follows:  
 
Particulars 
Amount in ₹ 
Statutory Audit 
15,76,570/- 
Limited review 
8,49,448/- 
Tax Audit 
1,71,028/- 
CG Certification 
35,205/- 
Total 
26,32,251/- 
 
The aforesaid remuneration shall be subject to applicable taxes and out-of-pocket expenses. Besides the audit services, the 
Company would also obtain certifications from the statutory auditors under various statutory regulations and certifications required 
by clients, banks, statutory authorities, audit related services and other permissible non-audit services as required from time to time, 
for which they will be remunerated separately on mutually agreed terms, as approved by the Board of Directors in consultation with 
the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee shall approve revisions to the remuneration of the statutory 
auditors for the remaining part of the tenure. The Board of Directors, in consultation with the Audit Committee, may alter and vary 
the terms and conditions of appointment, including remuneration, in such manner and to such extent as may be mutually agreed 
with the statutory auditors. Considering the evaluation of the past performance, experience and expertise of MSKA and based on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee, it is proposed to appoint MSKA as statutory auditors of the Company for a second 
term of five consecutive years till the conclusion of the 73rd AGM of the Company in terms of the aforesaid provisions. 
 
Brief profile of M/s. MSKA & Associates:  
 
Established in 1978, MSKA & Associates is an Indian partnership firm registered with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI) and the PCAOB (US Public Company Accountancy Oversight Board). MSKA & Associates offers a wide range of services 
in Audit Assurance, Tax and Advisory domain led by industry experts with deep knowledge pockets and driven by a commitment 
to deliver quality services to all clients. 
 
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their respective relatives are concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in passing the proposed resolution. The Board recommends the resolution set forth in Item No. 3 for the 
approval of members. 
 
 
2024-25
 
17 
 
 
 
ITEM NO. 4 OF THE NOTICE: 
 
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on July 16, 2025, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, appointed 
M/s. Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost Accountants (FRN: 000294)  as Cost Auditor of the Company for auditing the cost records for the FY 
2025-26 at a remuneration of ₹3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs only) plus applicable taxes thereon and reimbursement of out-of-pocket 
expenses.  The overall remuneration proposed to be paid to the Cost Auditors for FY 2025-26 is commensurate to the scope of the 
audit to be carried out by the Cost Auditors and is in line with the guidelines issued by the Institute of Cost Accountants of India. 
M/s Kishore Bhatia & Associates, Cost Accountants, have confirmed that they hold a valid certificate of practice under Section 6(1) 
of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 and are free from any disqualifications specified under the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, and Rules made thereunder, remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditors is required to be ratified by the Shareholders of the Company and accordingly, the consent of the Shareholders is sought 
for ratification of the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors for FY 2025-26. 
 
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out in Item No. 4 of the notice, for the approval of members of the Company. None 
of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company, or their respective relatives is in any way concerned or interested in 
the resolution set out in Item No. 4 of the Notice. 
 
ITEM NO. 5 OF THE NOTICE: 
 
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 179 and 204 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
Rule 8 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment & 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the 
time being in force) (‘the Act’), every listed company and certain other prescribed categories of companies are required to annex a 
Secretarial Audit Report, issued by a Practicing Company Secretary, to their Board’s report, prepared under Section 134(3) of the 
Act.  
 
Furthermore, pursuant to recent amendments to Regulation 24A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015’), as amended, every listed entity and its material 
Subsidiaries in India are required to conduct Secretarial Audit and annex the Secretarial Audit Report to its annual report. 
Additionally, a listed entity must appoint an individual as a Secretarial Auditor or Secretarial Audit firm for a term of five (5) 
consecutive years or for two terms of five consecutive years, as the case may be, with shareholders’ approval to be obtained at the 
Annual General Meeting. 
 
Accordingly, upon receipt of consent and the eligibility letter confirming the eligibility and non-disqualification as per the criteria 
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Act, ICSI Auditing Standards and Companies Secretaries Act, 1980 and 
rules and regulations made thereunder, from Mr. Jayavant Bhave, Proprietor, M/s J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries, the 
Board of Directors at its meeting held on July 16, 2025, has approved the appointment of M/s J. B. Bhave & Co., Company 
Secretaries, (UIN: S1999MH025400, CP No. 3068) as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a period of five (5) consecutive 
years, commencing from FY 2025-26 till FY 2029-30, subject to approval of the Members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
 
Furthermore, in terms of the amended regulations, M/s J. B. Bhave & Co. has provided a confirmation that they have subjected 
themselves to the peer review process of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and hold a valid peer review certificate. M/s 
J. B. Bhave & Co. has confirmed that they are not disqualified from being appointed as Secretarial Auditors and that they have no 
conflict of interest and has also furnished a declaration that they have not taken up any prohibited non-secretarial audit assignments 
for the Company, its holding and subsidiary companies.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
While recommending M/s J. B. Bhave & Co. for appointment, the Board evaluated various factors before making a recommendation 
to the Members. M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co, Practicing Company Secretaries, is based at Pune in the State of Maharashtra, India 
providing premium and effective secretarial, legal and business solutions through a team of professionals. Mr. Bhave has more 
than 30 years of experience in the corporate legal field and serves large and diverse client base from manufacturing, engineering, 
information technology, pharmaceuticals, agriculture, investment consultancy etc. (listed as well as unlisted companies) including 
Companies which are in top 100, 500 and 1000 on the BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited. 
 
Mr. Bhave has been empaneled as a Quality Reviewer by the Quality Review Board of The Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (ICSI) to conduct quality reviews. Mr. Bhave is also a visiting faculty at Pune Chapter of ICSI and many other forums. 
 
The recommendation for the appointment of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co. as Secretarial Auditor is based on their past track record and 
capabilities in delivering quality secretarial audit services to the company and other companies of similar size and complexity.  
 
The terms and conditions of the appointment of M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co. include a tenure of five (5) consecutive years, commencing 
from FY 2025-26 till FY 2029-30 at a remuneration of ₹2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only) for FY26 and as may be mutually 
agreed between the Board and the Secretarial Auditors for subsequent years. Additional fees for statutory certifications and other 
professional services will be determined separately by the Management, in consultation with the Secretarial Auditor and will be 
subject to approval by the Board of Directors and/or the Audit Committee. 
 
M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries have been appointed as Secretarial Auditor of Sudarshan Chemical Industries 
Limited, ultimate parent of the Company for a term of five consecutive years commencing from FY 2025-26 to 2029-30. Other than 
the appointment referred above, M/s. J. B. Bhave & Co., Company Secretaries are not associated with any subsidiary or associate 
companies. 
 
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out in Item No. 5 of the notice, for the approval of members of the Company. None 
of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company, or their respective relatives is in any way concerned or interested in 
the resolution set out in Item No. 5 of the Notice. 
 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors 
For Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
Adwait Joshi 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: ACS 39132 
        
        Navi Mumbai, August 11, 2025 
 
 
              
Heubach Colorants India Limited  
Registered Office:                                                                 
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33,  
MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar,  
Navi Mumbai, Thane, Maharashtra, India, 400705 
CIN : L24110MH1956PLC010806 
Website: www.heubach.com  
Email: investor.relations_india@heubach.com
 
2024-25
 
19 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE DIRECTOR SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
 
Details of Director seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting as per Regulation 36 of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and Secretarial Standard 2 on General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. 
 
Name of the Director 
Mr. Rajesh Rathi 
Director Identification Number 
(DIN) 
00018628 
Date of Birth (Age in years) 
November 13, 1968 (55 Years) 
Initial date of appointment on 
the 
Board 
April 14, 2025 
Experience and Expertise and 
brief 
resume 
Mr. Rajesh Rathi has completed BE (Mechanical) from MIT, Pune; BSc (Chemical) 
from Ohio University, USA and MBA from the University of Pittsburgh, USA. He 
has been associated with Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited for more than 
two decades in various capacities. Over the years, Mr. Rathi has been 
instrumental in driving tremendous growth of Pigment Division as a significant 
contributor of Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited. 
 
No. of Meetings of the Board 
attended during the year 
Mr. Rathi was appointed as a Director effective April 14, 2025. Subsequent to his 
appointment he attended Board Meetings held on May 30, 2025, July 16, 2025 
and August 11, 2025. 
Listed entities in which the 
person holds the directorship 
and 
the 
Membership 
of 
Committees of the Board 
Directorships held in other listed entities and companies –  
1. Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited 
 
Memberships and Chairmanships held in other listed companies –  
1. 
Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited  
(a) Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee – Member 
(b) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member 
(c) Risk Management Committee - Member 
 
Memberships and Chairmanships held in Committees of Heubach Colorants 
India Limited – 
(a) Nomination and Remuneration Committee – Member 
 
Listed Entities from which 
person has resigned during 
past 3 years. 
Finolex Industries Limited effective August 02, 2025 
No. of shares held in the 
Company including 
shareholding as a beneficial 
owner. 
Mr. Rathi does not directly hold any shares in the Company.   
 
However, Sudarshan Chemical Industries Limited is the ultimate parent of the 
Company indirectly holding 1,25,48,811 equity shares amounting to 54.36% 
shareholding and Mr. Rathi is a Significant Beneficial Owner of Sudarshan 
Chemical Industries Limited.  
Disclosure of relationship 
between 
Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company. 
Mr. Rathi is not related to any Director(s) / KMPs of the Company 
Terms & Conditions of 
appointment / re-appointment. 
Re-appointment upon retirement by rotation 
 
 
20 
 
Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
Details of remuneration sought 
to be paid. 
Mr. Rathi may be paid fees and remuneration and profit related commission as 
the Board may approve from time to time subject to such limits prescribed by the 
Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 
Details of remuneration last 
drawn. 
Not Applicable 
 
By Order of the Board of Directors 
For Heubach Colorants India Limited 
 
 
Adwait Joshi 
Company Secretary 
Membership No.: ACS 39132 
        
        Navi Mumbai, August 11, 2025 
 
 
              
Heubach Colorants India Limited  
Registered Office:                                                                 
Rupa Renaissance, B Wing, 25th Floor, D-33,  
MIDC Road, TTC Industrial Area, Juinagar,  
Navi Mumbai, Thane, Maharashtra, India, 400705 
CIN : L24110MH1956PLC010806 
Website: www.heubach.com  
Email: investor.relations_india@heubach.com
