IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
Registered Oﬃce: Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor, Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400099, India. | T +91 22 4315 7000 | contact@indostarcapital.com | 
www.indostarcapital.com  |    CIN: L65100MH2009PLC268160 
ICFL/LS/0154/2025-26 
September 01, 2025 
BSE Limited 
Listing Department, 1st Floor, 
P J Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai - 400 001. 
Scrip Code: 541336 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400 051. 
Symbol: INDOSTAR 
Sub.:   Notice convening 16th Annual General Meeting of the Company along with the Annual Report for the 
financial year 2024-25 and closure of Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
Ref.:    Regulation 30 and Regulation 34(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 and Regulation 34(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed the following documents, which are being 
sent to the shareholders of the Company through electronic mode: 
1.
Notice of the 16th Annual General Meeting of the Company (“AGM Notice”) scheduled to be held on 
Thursday, September 25, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing / Other Audio Visual Means 
for seeking approval of the Members of the Company on following matters:
A.
Ordinary Business
(i)
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, along with the report(s) of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditors thereon; (Ordinary Resolution)
(ii) To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and the report of the Auditors thereon; (Ordinary 
Resolution)
(iii) To appoint a director in place of Mr. Devdutt Marathe (DIN: 10294876), who retires by rotation 
and, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. (Ordinary Resolution)
B.
Special Business
(iv) Issue of non-convertible debentures under private placement not exceeding INR 6,000 crores 
(Rupees Six Thousand Crores) only; (Special Resolution)
(v) Appointment and payment of remuneration to secretarial auditor; (Ordinary Resolution)
(vi) Appointment of Mr. Vishal Goenka (DIN: 10084887) as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
of the Company. (Ordinary Resolution); and
2.
The Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2024-25 (“Annual Report”).
 
 
 
The AGM Notice and Annual Report are also available on the website of the Company at 
www.indostarcapital.com. 
 
Please note that in terms of Regulation 36(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations, a letter providing the web-link, 
including the exact path, where complete details of the Annual Report is available has been sent to those 
shareholder(s) who have not registered their email address(es) either with the listed entity or with any 
depository. 
 
In accordance with the application provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing Regulations and circulars 
issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India, approvals of the Members 
on the agenda(s) proposed in AGM Notice will only take place through remote e-voting and e-voting during 
AGM. 
 
Further, we wish to intimate that Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain 
closed from Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025 (both days inclusive) for the purpose 
of the Annual General Meeting. 
 
Request you to kindly take the above on record and disseminate the same on your website. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
 
                                  
Shikha Jain 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer                     
(Membership No. A59686) 
SHIKHA 
JAIN
Digitally signed 
by SHIKHA JAIN 
Date: 2025.09.01 
19:13:34 +05'30'
Notice
1
Annual Report 2024-25
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Registered & Corporate Office: Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor,
Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road,
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099
Corporate Identity Number: L65100MH2009PLC268160 | Tel: +91 22 43157000
Website: www.indostarcapital.com; Email: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
NOTICE is hereby given that the 16TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING of the Members of INDOSTAR 
CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED (“the Company”) is 
scheduled to be held on THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 
2025 at 2.00 P.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
/ Other Audio-Visual Means, to transact the below 
mentioned business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements 
of 
the
Company for the financial year ended March 31,
2025, along with the report(s) of the Board of
Directors and the Auditors thereon.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or
without modification(s), the following resolution
as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone
Financial Statements of the Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2025 and the
reports of the Board of Directors and Statutory
Auditors thereon, as circulated to the Members,
be and are hereby considered and adopted.”
2.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited
Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Company for the financial year ended March 31,
2025 and the report of the Auditors thereon.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or
without modification(s), the following resolution
as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2025 and the
report of the Statutory Auditors thereon, as
circulated to the Members, be and are hereby
considered and adopted.”
3.
To appoint a director in place of Mr. Devdutt
Marathe (DIN: 10294876), who retires by
rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for
re-appointment.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or
without modification(s), the following resolution
as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT Mr. Devdutt Marathe (DIN: 
10294876), who retires by rotation at the 16th 
Annual General Meeting in accordance with 
Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Articles of Association of the Company 
and being eligible has offered himself for re-
appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as 
a Director of the Company, liable to retire by 
rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.
Issue of non-convertible debentures under
private placement
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or
without modification(s), the following resolution
as a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to (i) the provisions
of Sections 23, 42, 71, 180(1)(c) and other
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies
Act, 2013 read with the applicable Rules framed
thereunder including the Companies (Prospectus 
and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 and the
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory amendment(s),
modification(s) 
or 
re-enactment(s) 
thereof,
for the time being in force); (ii) the applicable
provisions of the Memorandum of Association
and the Articles of Association of the Company;
(iii) the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)
Regulations, 2021, as amended; (iv) the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015,
as amended; (v) the Master Direction - Reserve
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company
– Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023, as
amended; and (vi) all other applicable laws,
acts, rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars,
directions and notifications, and subject to such
other consent(s) / permission(s) / sanction(s),
as may be required, consent of the Members of
the Company be and is hereby accorded to the
Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter
referred to as the “Board” which term shall be
deemed to include any committee constituted
2
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
/ may be constituted by the Board of Directors 
of the Company or any other person(s), for the 
time being exercising the powers conferred on 
the Board of Directors by this resolution and as 
may be authorised by the Board in this regard) 
to create / invite / offer / issue / allot up to such 
number of non-convertible debentures (“NCDs”) 
including but not limited to subordinated / 
perpetual debentures, under private placement, 
with or without security, in one or more modes 
or combinations thereof and in one or more 
series or tranches, to such eligible person(s), 
on such terms and conditions as the Board may 
determine and think fit, such that the aggregate 
principal amount of NCDs to be issued during 
a period of 1 (one) year commencing from the 
date of passing of this Special Resolution does 
not exceed ` 6,000 crore (Rupees Six Thousand 
Crore only) within the overall borrowing limits of 
the Company;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be 
and is hereby authorised to undertake all such 
acts, deeds, matters and things, as it may in its 
absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, 
proper or desirable to give full effect to the 
aforesaid resolution and to settle all questions / 
doubts / queries / difficulties that may arise in 
this regard, at any stage without being required 
to seek any further consent or approval of the 
Members of the Company to the end and intent 
that they shall be deemed to have given their 
approval thereto expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
5.	
Appointment and payment of remuneration to 
Secretarial Auditor 
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or 
without modification(s), the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED 
THAT 
pursuant 
to 
Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 and Regulation 24A and 36 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, including any amendments, 
modifications,  variations, or re-enactments 
thereof and as per the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, 
approval of the Members be and is hereby 
accorded, for the appointment of M/s. Mehta & 
Mehta, Practicing Company Secretaries, (ICSI 
Unique Code P1996MH007500) (Peer Review 
Certificate 
No.3686/2023) 
,as 
Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company, for a term of five (5) 
consecutive years, commencing from 2025-26 to 
2029-30 and to conduct Secretarial Audit of the 
Company, on such terms & conditions, including 
remuneration as may be determined by the 
Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Board” which term shall be deemed to include 
any committee constituted / may be constituted 
by the Board of Directors of the Company or any 
other person(s), for the time being exercising the 
powers conferred on the Board of Directors by 
this resolution and as may be authorised by the 
Board in this regard), in consultation with the 
said Secretarial Auditors;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT approval of the 
Members is hereby accorded to the Board to 
avail or obtain from the Secretarial Auditors, 
such other services including certification or 
providing reports which the Secretarial Auditors 
may be eligible to provide or issue under the 
applicable laws at a remuneration as may be 
determined by the Board;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be 
and is hereby authorised to undertake all such 
acts, deeds, matters and things, as it may in its 
absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, 
proper or desirable to give full effect to the 
aforesaid resolution and to settle all questions / 
doubts / queries / difficulties that may arise in 
this regard, at any stage without being required 
to seek any further consent or approval of the 
Members of the Company to the end and intent 
that they shall be deemed to have given their 
approval thereto expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
6.	
Appointment of Mr. Vishal Goenka (DIN: 
10084887) 
as 
a 
Non-Executive 
Non-
Independent Director of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or 
without modification(s), the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to (i) the provisions 
of Section 152 and all other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
applicable Rules framed thereunder including 
the Companies (Appointment and Qualifications 
of 
Directors) 
Rules, 
2014 
(including 
any 
statutory amendment(s), modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in 
force) (“Act”); (ii) the applicable provisions of 
the Articles of Association of the Company; (iii) 
the applicable provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
Notice
3
Annual Report 2024-25
amended (“Listing Regulations”); (iv) the Master 
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking 
Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) 
Directions, 2023, as amended (“RBI Directions”); 
(v) Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit & Proper” 
Person Criteria of the Company; and (vi) all 
other applicable laws, acts, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, circulars, directions and notifications, 
Mr. Vishal Goenka (DIN: 10084887), who was 
appointed as an Additional Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of the Company in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 161(1) 
of the Act and the Articles of Association of the 
Company and who holds office up to the date 
of 16th Annual General Meeting and in respect 
of whom the Company has received a notice 
in writing from a Member under Section 160 of 
the Act, proposing his candidature for the office 
of Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of 
the Company, be and is hereby appointed as a 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the 
Company, liable to retire by rotation;	
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of 
Directors of the Company (“Board”) be and 
is hereby authorised to undertake all such 
acts, deeds, matters and things, as it may 
in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
expedient, proper or desirable to give full 
effect to the aforesaid resolution including 
but not limited to delegate any powers to 
any officials of the Company conferred upon 
the Board by this resolution and to settle all 
questions / doubts / queries / difficulties 
that 
may arise in this regard, at any stage without 
being required to seek any further consent or 
approval of the Members of the Company to 
the end and intent that they shall be deemed to 
have given their approval thereto expressly by 
the authority of this resolution.”	
	
	
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 28, 2025
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No.: ACS 59686
Registered Office:
Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor, 
Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, 
Cardinal Gracious Road, Chakala, 
Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099
CIN: L65100MH2009PLC268160
Tel: +91 22 43157000
E-mail: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com 
Website: www.indostarcapital.com
4
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTES:
1.	
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) vide 
its General Circular no. 14/2020 dated April 08, 
2020, 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 20/2020 
dated May 05, 2020, and the subsequent 
circulars issued in this regard, and the latest 
being General Circular No. 09/2024 dated 
September 19, 2024 on COVID-19 related 
relaxations issued in this regard (collectively 
referred as “MCA Circulars”) and the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide 
its 
Circular 
no. 
SEBI/HO/ 
CFD/ 
CMD2/
CIR/P/2022/62 dated May 13, 2022 and Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 
dated October 03, 2024 (“SEBI Circulars”), 
has permitted companies to hold annual 
general meetings through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) 
without the physical presence of members 
at a common venue, till September 30, 2025. 
Accordingly, in compliance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), circulars 
issued by SEBI read with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and the MCA 
Circulars, the 16th Annual General Meeting of the 
Company (“AGM”) is being conducted through 
VC / OAVM, which does not require physical 
presence of the Members at a common venue. 
In accordance with the Secretarial Standard 
2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) read 
with Clarification / Guidance on applicability of 
Secretarial Standards - 1 and 2 dated April 15, 
2020 issued by the ICSI, the proceedings of the 
AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the 
Registered Office of the Company which shall 
be the deemed venue of the AGM. Since the 
AGM will be held through VC / OAVM, the Route 
Map is not annexed to this Notice. The Company 
has engaged the services of Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) for providing 
the facility for remote e-voting, for participation 
in the AGM through VC / OAVM and for e-voting 
during the AGM. The procedure for participating 
in the AGM through VC / OAVM is explained at 
Note No. 15 below.
2.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 
102 of the Act, the Secretarial Standards on 
General Meetings issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (“Secretarial 
Standards”) and the Listing Regulations, for 
business at Item No. 4, Item No. 5 and Item No. 
6 as set out in the Notice convening the AGM 
(“AGM Notice”) is annexed hereto and forms 
part of the AGM Notice.
	
The Board of Directors has considered and 
decided to include the Item No. 4, Item No. 5 
and Item No. 6 given above as Special Business 
in the forthcoming AGM, as they are unavoidable 
in nature.
3.	
 Information with respect to Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
and Mr. Vishal Goenka seeking appointment as 
Director as required under Regulation 36(3) 
of the Listing Regulations and the Secretarial 
Standards is annexed hereto and forms part of 
the AGM Notice.
4.	
In terms of the MCA Circulars, since the 
requirement of physical attendance of Members 
has been dispensed with, there is no requirement 
of appointment of proxies. Accordingly, the 
facility of appointment of proxies by Members 
under Section 105 of the Act will not be available 
for the AGM and hence Proxy Form and 
Attendance Slip are not annexed to this AGM 
Notice. However, in pursuance of Section 112 and 
Section 113 of the Act, Corporate/ Institutional 
Members are entitled to appoint authorised 
representatives to attend the AGM through VC 
/ OAVM on their behalf and for voting through 
remote e-voting or e-voting during the AGM. 
Corporate/ Institutional Members are requested 
to send the relevant Board Resolution / Authority 
letter etc. together with attested specimen 
signature of the duly authorised signatory who 
are authorised to vote and Demat Account 
details, to the Company at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com.
5.	
Members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning 
the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
6.	
The Register of Members and Share Transfer 
Books of the Company shall remain closed 
from Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, 
September 25, 2025 (both days inclusive).
7.	
SEBI vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE_IAD-
1/P/CIR/2023/131 dated July 31,2023 and SEBI/
HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 
dated 
August 04, 2023, read with Master Circular No. 
SEBI/HOOIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/145 
dated 
July 31, 2023, has established a common online 
dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal”) for 
resolution of dispute arising in the Securities 
Market. Pursuant to above-mentioned circulars, 
post exhausting the option to resolve their 
grievances with the RTA/Company directly and 
through existing SCORES platform, the investors 
Notice
5
Annual Report 2024-25
can initiate dispute resolution through the 
ODR Portal and the same can also be accessed 
through the Company’s website https://www.
indostarcapital.com.
8.	
Members can join the AGM through VC / 
OAVM, 15 minutes before the scheduled time 
of commencement of the AGM and during the 
AGM, by following the procedure mentioned 
in the AGM Notice. The facility of participation 
at the AGM through VC / OAVM will be made 
available to at least 1,000 Members on a first-
come-first-served basis. This will not include 
large shareholders (shareholders holding 2% 
or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional 
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
the Chairperson(s) of the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors 
etc. are allowed to attend the AGM without 
restriction on account of first-come­ first-served 
principle.
9.	
The Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent for 
its share registry work (Physical and Electronic) 
is MUFG lntime India Private Limited (“MUFG”) 
having their office at C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083.
10.	 ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF AGM NOTICE 
AND ANNUAL REPORT: In compliance with 
the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the AGM 
Notice along with the Annual Report for the 
financial year 2024-25 (“Annual Report”) are 
being sent through electronic mode to those 
Members whose email addresses are registered 
with the Company/ Depository Participants/ 
Registrar and Transfer Agent –MUFG. Members 
are requested to note that the AGM Notice and 
Annual Report are also available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner#investor-services, 
the 
website of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at 
www.bseindia.com 
and 
www.nseindia.
com, respectively. The AGM Notice is also 
disseminated on the website of CDSL (agency 
for providing the remote e-voting facility) at 
www.evotingindia.com.
11.	
The following documents / registers will be 
available for online inspection by the Members 
of the Company up to the date of the AGM:
a.	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their Shareholding and 
Register of Contracts or arrangement in 
which Directors are interested;
b.	
All the documents referred to in the AGM 
Notice and the Explanatory Statement 
annexed to the AGM Notice; and
c.	
A certificate from Mehta & Mehta Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries, Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company, in terms of 
Regulation 13 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (“the SBEB Regulations”), certifying 
that the Employee Stock Options Plans of 
the Company have been implemented in 
accordance with the SBEB Regulations and 
the respective resolution(s) passed in the 
general meeting(s) of the Company in this 
regard.
	
Members who wish to inspect any of the 
abovementioned documents may write to the 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer at 
investor.relations@indostarcapital.com.
12.	 Members holding shares in physical mode and 
desirous of nominating any person as his / her 
nominee may send the duly filed nomination 
form in SH-13 or desirous of cancelling the earlier 
nomination and recording fresh nomination 
may send the duly filled form SH-14 to MUFG. 
Members can obtain the blank form SH-13 and 
SH-14 from MUFG. Members holding shares in 
electronic / dematerialised mode can contact 
their respective Depository Participants to either 
nominate any person as a nominee or cancel the 
earlier nomination and record fresh nomination.
13.	 Members are requested to:
a.	
register/ notify any change in their registered 
address/ Permanent Account Number/ bank 
mandates to MUFG, in case of shares held in 
physical form;
b.	
register/ 
notify 
any 
change 
in 
their 
registered address / Permanent Account 
Number / bank mandates to the respective 
Depository Participants, in case of shares 
held in electronic/ dematerialised form;
c.	
quote their folio number(s) / Client ID 
and DP ID/ Beneficiary ID in all their 
correspondence.
14.	 Members are requested to note that dividend 
which remains unpaid or unclaimed for 7 (seven) 
consecutive years from the date of transfer 
to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account 
are liable to be transferred to the Investor 
Education & Protection Fund (“IEPF”) and all 
shares on which dividend has not been paid or 
6
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
claimed for 7 (seven) consecutive years shall 
also be transferred to IEPF Authority, in terms 
of the provision of Section 124 of the Act read 
with Rules made thereunder. In view of this, 
Members who have not claimed their dividend 
are requested to claim their dividend within the 
stipulated timeline by corresponding with MUFG 
or the Company Secretary by writing at investor.
relations@indostarcapital.com.
15.	 PROCEDURE 
FOR 
REMOTE 
E-VOTING, 
ATTENDING THE AGM AND E-VOTING DURING 
THE AGM:
1.	
In compliance with the provisions of 
Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 
20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended 
from time to time, Regulation 44 of the 
Listing Regulations read with Circular 
dated December 09, 2020 issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
on e-voting facility provided by Listed 
Entities, the Secretarial Standards, the 
MCA Circulars, Members have the option to 
vote electronically either before the AGM 
(“remote e-voting”) or during the AGM on 
the resolutions set out in the AGM Notice.
2.	
The facility of e-voting shall be available 
during the AGM for Members attending the 
AGM through VC / OAVM and who have not 
already cast their vote by remote e-voting. 
However, Members who have cast their vote 
through remote e-voting may attend the 
AGM but shall not be entitle to vote during 
the AGM.
3.	
The remote e-voting period commences 
on Monday, September 22, 2025 at 9:00 
a.m. (IST) and ends on Wednesday, 
September 24, 2025 at 5:00 p.m. (IST), 
after which the facility will be blocked by 
CDSL and the remote e-voting shall not be 
allowed beyond the said end date and time. 
Members of the Company holding shares 
either in the physical mode or electronic / 
dematerialised mode as on the cut-off date 
i.e., Thursday, September 18, 2025 shall be 
entitled to cast votes on the resolutions set 
out in the AGM Notice by remote e-voting 
or e-voting at the AGM. Any person who 
is not a Member as on the cut-off date i.e., 
Thursday, September 18, 2025 should treat 
the AGM Notice for information purpose 
only.
4.	
The voting rights of the Members shall be 
in proportion of the amount paid-up on the 
equity shares held by a Member with the 
total equity share capital of the Company as 
on the cut-off date i.e., Thursday, September 
18, 2025.
5.	
Procedure and instructions for remote 
e-voting on the resolutions proposed in 
the AGM Notice:
	
In terms of the SEBI circular dated December 
09, 2020 on “e-Voting facility provided by 
Listed Companies”, e-voting process has 
been enabled for all the individual demat 
account holders, by way of single login 
credential, through their demat accounts 
/ websites of depositories and depository 
participants (DPs), in order to increase the 
efficiency of the voting process.
	
Individual demat account holders would 
be able to cast their vote without having 
to register again with the e-voting service 
provider (ESP) thereby not only facilitating 
seamless authentication but also ease and 
convenience of participating in the e-voting 
process. Members are advised to update 
their mobile number and email ID in their 
demat accounts in order to access e-voting 
facility.
A. 	 Login method for remote e-voting for Individual Members holding shares in dematerialised 
mode:
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual 
Members 
holding 
shares 
in 
dematerialised mode 
with CDSL
A.	
Users already registered for Easi / Easiest facility:
1.	
URL for login to Easi / Easiest are https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasi/home/login or visit www.cdslindia.com. and click on New 
System Myeasi. Members can login through their existing user 
ID and password. Option will be available to reach e-voting page 
without any further authentication; 
2.	
After successful login on Easi / Easiest, the user will be able to 
see the e-voting Menu. The Menu will have links of all e-voting 
service providers (“ESP”) i.e. CDSL / NSDL / KARVY / Link Intime 
etc. Click on CDSL to cast your vote.
Notice
7
Annual Report 2024-25
Type of Members
Login Method
B.	
Users who have not opted for Easi / Easiest facility: 
1.	
Option to register for Easi  /  Easiest is available at https://web.
cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration. 
2.	
Proceed with completing the required fields; 
3.	
After successful registration, please follow steps given in Point No. 
A above to cast your vote.
C.	
Visit the e-voting website of CDSL:
1.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by 
providing Demat Account Number and Permanent Account 
Number from a e-voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home 
page.
2.	
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered 
Mobile and e-mail as recorded in the Demat Account. 
3.	
After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting 
option where the E-voting is in progress. Click on options available 
against the Company name: IndoStar Capital Finance Limited or 
select e-voting service provider name – CDSL to cast your vote.
Individual 
Members 
holding share(s) in 
dematerialised mode 
with NSDL
A.	
Users registered for NSDL IDeAS facility
1.	
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices. 
nsdl.com. Once the home page of e-services is launched, click 
on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available 
under ‘IDeAS’ section; 
2.	
A new screen will open. Enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, user will be able to see E-voting 
services. Click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting services 
and user will be able to see e-voting page.
3.	
Click on options available against Company name: IndoStar 
Capital Finance Limited or e-voting service provider name – CDSL 
and you will be re-directed to CDSL e-voting website for casting 
vote during the remote e-voting period.
B.	
Users not registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
1.	
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com. 
2.	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp. 
3.	
Proceed with completing the required fields. 
4.	
After successful registration, please follow steps given in Point No. 
A above to cast your vote
C.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
under ‘Shareholder / Member’ section. 
2.	
Enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number 
held with NSDL), Password  /  OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen. 
8
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Type of Members
Login Method
3.	
After successful authentication, user will be redirected to NSDL 
depository site wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on 
options available against Company name: IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited or e-voting service provider name – CDSL. 
4.	
User will be redirected to e-voting website of CDSL for casting 
your vote during the remote e-voting period.
Individual 
Members 
(holding 
share(s) 
in 
dematerialised 
mode) login through 
their 
Depository 
Participants
1.	
User can also login using the login credentials of your demat account 
through your Depository Participant registered with NSDL / CDSL for 
e-voting facility.
2.	
After Successful login, user will be able to see e-voting option. Click on 
e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site 
after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
3.	
Click on option available against Company’s name: IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited or e-voting service provider – CDSL and user will be 
redirected to e-voting website of CDSL for casting vote during the 
remote e-voting period
	
Important note: 
	
Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding shares in dematerialised mode for any technical issues 
related to login through Depository i.e. CDSL and NSDL
Login Type 
Helpdesk Details
Securities held with NSDL 
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@
nsdl.co.in or call at Toll free nos.: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 
7000
Securities held with CDSL 
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 21 09911
B.	
Login method for remote e-voting for Members other than Individual Members holding shares in 
demat mode and Members holding shares in physical mode: 
a)	
The Members should log on to the e-voting website at www.evotingindia.com.
b)	
Click on “shareholders / Members” tab. 
c)	
Now enter your User ID, as detailed below: 
a.	
For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID; 
b.	
For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID; 
c.	
Members holding shares in physical mode should enter “Folio Number” registered with the 
Company.
d.	
 Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on “Login”. 
e.	
Please follow the following steps after clicking on “Login”.
Existing Users
New Users
•	
In case a Member has already 
used 
the 
remote 
e-voting 
facility of CDSL for any other 
company, should use their 
existing User ID and Password.
•	
Members who have updated their PAN with the 
Company / Depository 
Participants / 
MUFG, 
please enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric PAN 
issued by Income Tax Department (applicable for 
both the Members holding shares in electronic / 
dematerialised mode or physical mode)
Notice
9
Annual Report 2024-25
Existing Users
New Users
•
If a Member has forgotten
his / her password, they can
retrieve the same by clicking
on “Forgot Password”
•
Members who have not updated their PAN with
the 
Company / Depository 
Participants / MUFG
are requested to use the sequence number sent
by Company. In case a Member has not received
sequence number, he / she can obtain the same
by writing to the Company at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com.
AND
•
Enter the Dividend Bank Details OR Date of Birth
(in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded with your
Depository Participants / Company / MUFG. In
case the said details are not recorded, Members
are requested to use the Folio No. (in case of
shares in physical mode) and Beneficiary ID /
DP ID and Client ID. (in case of shares held in
electronic / dematerialised mode).
f.
After 
entering 
these 
details
appropriately, click on “SUBMIT”
tab.
g.
Members holding shares in physical
form will then directly reach the
EVSN selection screen. The details
can be used only for using the
remote e-voting facility for the
resolutions contained in the AGM
Notice.
h.
Members 
holding 
shares 
in
electronic / dematerialised 
mode
will now reach ‘Password Creation’
menu wherein they are required
to mandatorily enter their login
password in the new password
field. Kindly note that this password 
is to be also used for voting for
resolutions of any other company
on which they are eligible to vote,
provided that company opts for
e-voting through CDSL platform.
It is strongly recommended not to
share your password with any other 
person and take utmost care to
keep your password confidential.
i.
Click on the EVSN 250828057 of
the Company on which you choose
to vote.
j.
On the voting page, you will see
“RESOLUTION 
DESCRIPTION”
and against the same the option
“YES / NO” for voting. Select the
option “YES” or “NO” as desired.
The option YES implies that you 
assent to a particular resolution 
and option NO implies that you 
dissent to a particular resolution. 
k.
If you wish to view the entire
resolution details, click on the
“RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK”.
l.
After selecting the resolution, you
have decided to vote on, click on
“SUBMIT”. A confirmation box
will be displayed. If you wish to
confirm your vote, click on “OK”,
else to change your vote, click on
“CANCEL” and accordingly modify
your vote.
m.
Once you “CONFIRM” your vote
on the resolution, you will not be
allowed to modify your vote.
n.
You can also take a print of the
votes cast by clicking on “Click
here to print” option on the Voting
page.
o.
If a demat account holder has
forgotten the login password then
enter the User ID and the image
verification code and click on
Forgot Password and enter the
details as prompted by the system.
p.
Note for Non – Individual Members 
and Custodians:
•
Non-Individual members (i.e.
other than Individuals, HUF,
NRI etc.) and Custodians are
10
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
required to log on to www.
evotingindia.com and register 
themselves in the Corporates. 
•	
A 
scanned 
copy 
of 
the 
Registration Form bearing the 
stamp and sign of the entity 
should be emailed to helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com.
•	
After 
receiving 
the 
login 
details a Compliance User 
should be created using the 
admin login and password. 
The Compliance User would 
be able to link the account(s) 
for which they wish to vote on. 
•	
The list of accounts linked in 
the login should be mailed to 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com and on approval of the 
accounts they would be able 
to cast their vote. 
•	
A scanned copy of the Board 
Resolution 
and 
Power 
of 
Attorney (POA) which they 
have issued in favour of the 
Custodian, if any, should be 
uploaded in PDF format in the 
system for the scrutiniser to 
verify the same. 
•	
Alternatively, 
Non-Individual 
Members 
are 
required 
to 
send 
the 
relevant 
Board 
Resolution / Authority letter 
etc. together with attested 
specimen signature of the 
duly 
authorised 
signatory 
who are authorised to vote 
and Demat account details 
to the Company at investor.
relations@indostarcapital.
com, 
if 
have 
voted 
from 
individual 
tab 
and 
not 
uploaded same in the CDSL 
e-voting 
system 
for 
the 
scrutiniser to verify.
6.	
Process 
for 
Members 
whose 
email 
addresses are not registered with the 
Company / Depositories:
I.	
Members holding shares in physical 
form - Please provide necessary details 
like Folio No., Name of Member, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and 
back) and PAN (self-attested scanned 
copy of PAN card) by email to investor.
relations@indostarcapital.com; 
II.	
Members 
holding 
shares 
in 
dematerialised 
form 
(other 
than 
individuals) - Please update your email 
address and mobile no. with your 
respective depository participant. 
III.	 Individual Members holding shares in 
dematerialised form - Please update 
your email address and mobile no. with 
your respective depository participant 
which is mandatory while e-voting and 
joining the AGM.
7.	
Instructions for Members attending the 
AGM through VC / OVAM and e-voting 
on the resolutions proposed in the AGM 
Notice, during the AGM are as under:
a)	
The procedure for attending the AGM 
through VC / OVAM and e-voting during 
the AGM is same as the instructions 
mentioned above for remote e-voting.
b)	
Members who have voted through 
remote e-voting will be eligible to 
attend the AGM. However, they will not 
be eligible to vote during the AGM.
c)	
Only those Members, who are present 
in the AGM through VC / OAVM facility 
and have not casted their vote on 
the resolutions proposed in the AGM 
Notice through remote e-voting and 
are otherwise not barred from doing 
so, shall be eligible to vote through 
e-voting system available during the 
AGM. 
d)	
After successful login as per the 
instructions 
mentioned 
above 
for 
remote e-voting, the link for VC / OAVM 
to attend AGM will be available where 
the EVSN of Company will be displayed. 
e)	
Members are encouraged to join the 
AGM through Laptops / IPads for better 
experience. 
f)	
Members will be required to allow 
Camera (in case of speakers) and use 
Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
g)	
Members 
connecting 
from 
mobile 
devices or tablets or through laptop 
connecting via mobile hotspot may 
experience audio  /  video loss due to 
Notice
11
Annual Report 2024-25
fluctuation in their respective network. 
Members are therefore requested to 
use internet facility with a good speed 
to avoid any disturbance during the 
AGM. 
h)	
Members who would like to express 
their views  /  ask questions during the 
AGM may register themselves as a 
speaker by sending a specific request 
for the same from their registered email 
address mentioning their name, DP ID 
and Client ID / folio number, PAN and 
mobile number at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com in advance, at least 
7 days prior to the date of AGM.
i)	
Only 
those 
Members 
who 
have 
registered themselves as a ‘speaker’ will 
be allowed to express their views / ask 
questions 
during 
the 
AGM. 
The 
Company reserves the right to restrict 
the number of speakers depending on 
the availability of time for the AGM.
j)	
The Members who do not wish to 
speak during the AGM but have any 
queries relating to the resolutions set 
out in the AGM Notice may send their 
queries from their registered email 
address mentioning their name, DP ID 
and Client ID / folio number, PAN and 
mobile number at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com 
in 
advance, 
at 
least 7 days prior to the date of AGM. 
These queries will be replied to by the 
Company suitably via email.
	
Details of persons to be contacted 
for 
any 
issues / queries / grievances 
relating to remote e-voting, e-voting 
during the AGM and attending the AGM 
through VC / OAVM: 
	
CDSL: 
	
Members may refer to the Frequently 
Asked 
Questions 
(“FAQs”) 
and 
e-voting user manual available at www.
evotingindia.com, under “Help” section 
or may contact Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. 
Manager, (CDSL, ) Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited, A Wing, 25th 
Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill 
Compounds, N M Joshi Marg, Lower 
Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 or send 
an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or call on toll free no. 1800 21 09 911.
	
Company: 
	
Ms. Shikha Jain Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer at Silver Utopia, 3rd 
Floor, Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, 
Cardinal Gracious Road, Chakala, Andheri 
(E), Mumbai – 400099 or send an email at 
investor.relations@indostarcapital.com 
or 
call at 022-43157000.
8.	
Mehta 
& 
Mehta, 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries, have been appointed as the 
Scrutiniser to scrutinise the remote e-voting 
process and e-voting during the AGM in a 
fair and transparent manner.
9.	
The Scrutiniser shall, not later than 48 hours 
from the conclusion of the AGM, submit a 
consolidated Scrutiniser’s Report of the total 
votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the 
Chairman or any other person authorised 
by the Chairman in this behalf, who shall 
countersign the same.
10.	 The 
Chairman 
or 
any 
other 
person 
authorised by the Chairman in this behalf 
shall forthwith on receipt of the consolidated 
Scrutiniser’s Report, declare the results of 
the voting within 48 hours of the conclusion 
of the AGM. The results declared along 
with the Scrutiniser’s Report shall be 
placed on the Company’s website at www.
indostarcapital.com and on the website of 
CDSL e-voting at www.evotingindia.com 
immediately after the results are declared 
by the Chairman or any other person so 
authorised. Simultaneously, the same will 
also be communicated to the BSE Limited 
and the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited, where the equity shares of the 
Company are listed.
11.	
The resolutions as set out in the AGM Notice 
shall be deemed to be passed on the date of 
the AGM i.e. Thursday, September 25, 2025, 
subject to receipt of the requisite number of 
votes in favour of the resolution(s).
12
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE CONVENING THE 16TH 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“AGM NOTICE”)
EXPLANATORY 
STATEMENT 
PURSUANT 
TO 
SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, 
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF 
INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE 
REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 
2015 
AND 
THE SECRETARIAL STANDARDS ON GENERAL 
MEETINGS ISSUED BY THE INSTITUTE OF COMPANY 
SECRETARIES OF INDIA
ITEM NO. 4
Issue of non-convertible debentures under private 
placement
Members at the 15th Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on September 30, 2024, had accorded 
their approval to create / invite / offer / issue / allot 
up to such number of Non-Convertible Debentures 
(“NCDs”), under private placement, in one or more 
series or tranches, on such terms and conditions 
as may be determined by the Board, such that the 
aggregate principal amount of such NCDs issued 
during a period of 1 (one) year commencing from the 
date of passing of special resolution at the aforesaid 
15th Annual General Meeting, does not exceed ` 6,000 
crore (Rupees Six Thousand Crore only).
Members are requested to note that the aforesaid 
approval accorded by the Members of the Company 
for the issue of NCDs under private placement is valid 
for a period of one year from the date of approval by 
the Members of the Company i.e. upto September 29, 
2025.
Members are requested to note that in order to enable 
the Company to raise funds by way of issuance of 
NCDs under private placement, the Board of Directors 
of the Company at its meeting held on August 13, 
2025, subject to the approval of the Members of the 
Company, accorded its approval to create / invite / 
offer / issue / allot upto such number of NCDs, under 
private placement, in one or more series or tranches, 
such that the aggregate principal amount of such 
NCDs to be issued during a period of 1 (one) year 
commencing from the date of passing of the Special 
Resolution set out at Item No. 4 of the AGM Notice, 
does not exceed ` 6,000 crore. Further, the Board of 
Directors have authorised the Borrowing Committee 
to undertake all acts, deeds, matters and things as 
it may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
expedient, proper or desirable, in respect of issuance 
of NCDs under private placement including but not 
limited to determine the terms and conditions of the 
NCDs to be issued, number of NCDs to be issued, 
issue price, face value, issue size, coupon, tenor, 
objects of the issue, etc.
Members are requested to note that in terms of 
Section 42 of the Act read with Rule 14 of the 
Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) 
Rules, 2014, a company shall not make an offer or 
invitation to subscribe to securities (including NCDs) 
through private placement unless the proposal has 
been previously approved by the members of the 
Company, by way of special resolution. Further, 
in case of offer or invitation to subscribe NCDs it 
shall be sufficient if the Company passes a previous 
special resolution only once in a year for all the offers 
or invitations to subscribe NCDs during the year.
Accordingly, approval of the Members of the Company 
is sought in terms of Section 42 of the Act read with 
Rule 14 of the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment 
of Securities) Rules, 2014, to create / invite / offer 
/ issue / allot up to such number of NCDs, under 
private placement, in one or more series or tranches, 
such that the aggregate principal amount of such 
NCDs to be issued during a period of 1 (one) year 
from the date of passing of the Special Resolution set 
out at Item No. 4 of the AGM Notice, does not exceed 
` 6,000 crore within the overall borrowing limits of 
the Company.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution 
set out at Item No. 4 of the AGM Notice to the 
Members for their consideration and approval, by 
way of Special Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company or their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in 
the Special Resolution set out at Item No. 4 of the 
AGM Notice, except to the extent of the NCDs that 
may be subscribed by any Directors or Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company or their relatives or any 
entity in which any of the Directors or Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company or their relatives may be 
concerned or interested in any capacity.
ITEM NO. 5
Appointment and payment of remuneration to 
Secretarial Auditor 
Pursuant to Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(‘the Act’), every listed company and certain other 
prescribed categories of companies are required 
to annex a Secretarial Audit Report, issued by a 
Practising Company Secretary, to their Board’s 
report, prepared under Section 134(3) of the Act.
Further, pursuant to Regulation 24A of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), as amended 
from time to time, a listed entity is required to appoint 
a Secretarial Auditor for a period not more than one 
Notice
13
Annual Report 2024-25
term of five consecutive years in case of an individual 
and for a period not more than two terms of five 
consecutive years in case of a firm. Further, such 
appointment shall be approved by the shareholders 
in its Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and Listing 
Regulations as stated above , the Board of Directors 
at its meeting held on August 13, 2025, basis the 
recommendation of Audit Committee, has approved 
the appointment of M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, Peer Reviewed Firm (Peer 
Review Certificate No. 3686/2023) as the Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company for five consecutive years 
commencing from April 01, 2025 till March 31, 2030 
and recommended the same for the approval of 
Shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
of the Company. 
Credentials of the Secretarial Auditors:
M/s. 
Mehta 
& 
Mehta 
(ICSI 
Unique 
Code 
P1996MH007500), a firm of Practicing Company 
Secretaries (“the firm”) is a Peer Reviewed Firm which 
has been in business for several years practicing as 
Corporate and Legal Advisor and advising corporate 
clients on legal or procedural matters falling under The 
Companies Act, 2013, the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) Guidelines, the Securities 
Contracts Regulation Act, 1956, the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and other Corporate Laws 
and Legislations with specialisation in the above 
areas. The firm has diverse exposure in the areas of 
corporate advisory services, transactional services, 
litigation and legal due diligence, Compliance Audit & 
Assurance Services. The firm holds the ‘Peer Review’ 
certificate as issued by ‘ICSI’. 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, have consented to the said 
appointment and confirmed that their appointment, 
if made, would be within the limits specified by the 
Institute of Companies Secretaries of India. They 
have further confirmed that they are not disqualified 
from being appointed as Secretarial Auditors in 
terms of provisions of The Companies Act, 2013, 
The Companies Secretaries Act, 1980 and Rules 
and Regulations made thereunder and the Listing 
Regulations read with SEBI Circular dated December 
31, 2024.
Terms of appointment and Remuneration:
(a) 	 Term of appointment:
	
The Board of Directors has recommended the 
appointment of the firm for a term 5 (Five) 
consecutive financial years commencing from 
April 01, 2025 up to March 31, 2030 and the 
appointment shall be valid from the date of the 
ensuing AGM till the conclusion of the AGM to be 
held in the year 2030.
(b) 	Remuneration:
	
The Board of Directors has approved an annual 
fee of ` 2,75,000/- (Rupees Two lakhs seventy 
five thousand only) for conducting the Secretarial 
Audit for 2025-26, plus applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses on 
actuals with a power to the Board of Directors 
(basis the recommendation of Audit Committee 
of the Board) to alter the fee (including upward 
revision of fees) during their balance part of 
tenure as Secretarial Auditors, in such manner 
and to such extent as may be mutually agreed 
with the Secretarial Auditors. Besides the 
audit services, the Company would also obtain 
certifications which are to be mandatorily 
received from the Secretarial Auditors under 
various statutory regulations from time to 
time, for which the secretarial auditors will be 
remunerated separately on mutually agreed 
terms.
(c)	 Basis 
of 
recommendation 
for 
proposed 
appointment as Secretarial Auditors:
	
The Board of Directors, at its Meeting held 
on August 13, 2025 have considered various 
parameters like Secretarial Audit experience, 
clientele served, technical knowledge etc., and 
found M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Practicing Company 
Secretaries suitable for this appointment and 
accordingly, recommend the appointment based 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Basis the rationale provided above, your directors 
recommend the passing of the Ordinary Resolution 
as set out in Item No. 5 of the accompanying Notice.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company / their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in 
the resolutions set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice.
Item No. 6
Appointment of Mr. Vishal Goenka (DIN: 10084887) 
as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of 
the Company.
Members are requested to note that in terms of the 
right under the shareholders’ agreement (“SHA”) 
executed among the Company, BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte. Ltd. (“Brookfield”) and Indostar Capital 
(“ICM”) which is effective from July 09, 2020, the 
Company received a communication from ICM 
nominating Mr. Vishal Goenka (DIN: 10084887) as 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director on the 
Board of Directors of the Company.
14
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Members are requested to note that pursuant 
to 
nomination 
received 
from 
ICM 
and 
upon 
recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”), the Board of Directors through 
resolution passed by circulation on August 28, 2025 
approved appointment of Mr. Vishal Goenka, as an 
Additional Director in the category of Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director, liable to retire by rotation, 
of the Company in terms of Section 161(1) of the Act, 
to hold office up to the date of the 16th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company. 
Brief profile of Mr. Goenka and disclosure(s) / 
information under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(“Listing 
Regulations”) and the Secretarial Standards on 
General Meeting issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India are set out in Annexure to this 
Notice of AGM. 
Members are requested to note that the Company 
has received consent in writing from Mr. Goenka to 
act as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of 
the Company and declaration(s) and confirmation(s) 
stating that he is not disqualified from being 
appointed as Director of the Company in terms 
of Section 164 and other applicable provisions of 
the Act and the circulars, directions, notifications, 
regulations, guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India and the Securities and Exchange Board of India. 
Members are requested to note that in terms of 
Section 178 of the Act, terms of reference of NRC, 
RBI Directions and Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit 
& Proper” Person Criteria of the Company, the NRC 
has assessed and confirmed the eligibility and “fit & 
proper” person status of the proposed director for 
his appointment as Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director, based on the information, declarations, 
disclosures and undertakings provided by him. 
Members are requested to note that the Company has 
received a notice in writing in terms of the provisions 
of Section 160 of the Act from a Member proposing 
the candidature of Mr. Goenka, as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director on the Board of Directors 
of the Company. The Board of Directors recommends 
the resolution set out at Item No. 6 of the Notice of 
AGM to the Members for their consideration and 
approval, by way of an Ordinary Resolution. 
Except Mr. Goenka or his relatives none of the other 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution 
set out at Item No. 6 of the Notice of AGM.
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Shikha Jain
	
 Company Secretary & 
Place: Mumbai 	
Compliance Officer
Date: August 28, 2025	
Membership No.: ACS 59686
Notice
15
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE CONVENING THE 16TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OF DIRECTOR(S) SEEKING APPOINTMENT AT THE 16TH ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING WITH RESPECT TO ITEM NO. 3 & 6 OF THE AGM NOTICE
Name of the Director
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Mr. Vishal Goenka
Age
42 years
42 years
Date of first Appointment on the 
Board of the Company
September 8, 2023
August 28, 2025
Brief 
Resume, 
Qualifications, 
Experience and Nature of his 
expertise in functional areas
Mr. 
Devdutt 
Marathe 
is 
an 
investment 
professional 
with 
over fifteen years’ experience in 
the Private Equity space. He is 
currently a Senior VP at Brookfield 
Asset Management focused on the 
Private Equity business in the India 
/ Middle East region. Previously, 
Mr. Marathe was a Principal at 
Apax Partners, where he led or 
participated in several transactions 
across 
financial 
services, 
healthcare and technology sectors. 
Mr. Marathe holds B.Tech. and MS 
degrees in Electrical Engineering 
from IIT Madras and Caltech (USA) 
respectively, and a PGDM from IIM 
Ahmedabad.
Mr. Vishal Goenka is the Managing 
Director 
at 
Everstone 
Capital, 
focusing on investments in industrial 
and 
financial 
services 
businesses. 
He is based in Mumbai and has over 
15 years of investing and banking 
experience across sectors. Previously, 
he has worked with Warburg Pincus 
in their India business and J.P. Morgan 
in their IB business. He holds a post-
graduate degree in management from 
IIM Indore (Institute Gold Medalist) 
and an engineering degree from 
University of Mumbai. He also holds 
MBA from Symbiosis Institute of 
Business Management and Bachelor of 
Management Studies degree from the 
University of Mumbai.
Terms 
and 
Conditions 
of 
appointment / re-appointment
Liable to retire by rotation.
Liable to retire by rotation.
Remuneration sought to be paid
NIL
NIL
Remuneration last drawn (2024-
25)
NIL
NA
Shareholding in the Company
NIL 
NIL 
Relationship with other Directors 
/ Managers / Key Managerial 
Personnel
Not related to any Director or 
Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company
Not related to any Director or Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the financial year 2024-
25 (No. of Meetings held during 
tenure of directorship)
15(15)
NA 
Other Directorships
None 
1.	 Integris Medtech Limited 
2.	 Transvalve Health Private Limited
3.	 Transhealth Private Limited
4.	 Translumina Therapeutics Private 
Limited
5.	 Halemed Medical Private Limited
Membership / Chairmanship of 
Committees of other Boards
None
None
Listed 
entities 
from 
which 
resigned in past three years
None
None
16
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
The Company has received declaration from Mr. Devdutt Marathe and Mr. Vishal Goenka confirming that they 
are not debarred from holding office of director(s) pursuant to any order issued by SEBI or any other authority 
and they are not disqualified from being re-appointed as Director(s) of the Company under Section 164(2) of 
the Act.
Mr. Devdutt Marathe and Mr. Vishal Goenka comply with the ‘Fit and Proper’ criteria prescribed by RBI vide its 
Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 
2023 - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106, DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 19th October, 2023.
The Board of Directors recommend the resolution(s) set out at Item No. 3 and Item No. 6 of this Notice to the 
Members for their consideration and approval, by way of Ordinary Resolution(s).
Except Mr. Devdutt Marathe or his relatives, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution 
set out at Item No. 3 of AGM Notice.
Except Mr. Vishal Goenka or his relatives, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at 
Item No. 6 of AGM Notice.
Annual Report 2024-25
T H E
FLYWHEEL 
EFFECT
Business greatness, as Jim 
Collins explains, is rarely the 
result of one dramatic leap. 
Instead, it emerges from a 
steady series of deliberate, 
consistent actions, repeated in 
alignment with a clear purpose, 
until momentum takes over.
The Flywheel Effect 
captures this truth:
each small, disciplined step 
compounds over time, building 
unstoppable force.
“There’s no single 
defining action, no grand 
programme, no one killer 
innovation, no solitary 
lucky break, no wrenching 
revolution. Good to 
great comes about by a 
cumulative process… turn 
by turn of the flywheel.”
— Jim Collins 
THIS IS THE STORY OF INDOSTAR.
What began in 2017 as a strategic 
pivot to retail lending, inspired 
by market shifts and a need 
for greater stability, has been 
strengthened year after year 
through sharper governance, 
technology-led efficiency, a 
granular, high-quality loan 
book, and a focussed leadership 
agenda built around core vehicle 
finance and affordable housing. 
Key milestones – strategic 
acquisitions, digitisation drives, 
exit from the corporate book, and 
expansion into micro-markets – 
were not isolated breakthroughs, 
but deliberate turns of the 
flywheel.
	 A 95% retail portfolio anchored in  
vehicle finance;
	 A deeper branch and micro-branch network 
reaching underserved markets;
	 Stronger balance sheet fundamentals with 
diversified, low-cost funding;
	 Scalable operations primed for sustained 
growth.
Today,
that persistence is delivering 
visible results. IndoStar enters 
2024-25 with:
THE COMPANY IS NOW PAST 
THE STAGE OF PUSHING THE 
FLYWHEEL INTO MOTION – 
ITS  MOMENTUM IS CARRYING 
IT FORWARD
For IndoStar, that point has arrived. The 
foundation is strong, the path is clear, and the 
momentum is real. The flywheel is turning – 
faster, stronger, and tougher to stop.
As Collins reminds us,  
“Once you get your flywheel to a 
certain point of momentum, you are 
no longer pushing it. It’s propelling 
you.”
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX IND
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
INDEX
IND
IND
IND
IND
INDEX IND
EX
EX
EX
EX
EX
EX
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Non-Executive Independent 
Chairperson
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
Non-Executive Independent Directors
Mr. Hemant Kaul
Ms. Sujatha Mohan
(Appointed with effect from April 21, 
2025)
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Mr. Vishal Goenka  
(Appointed with effect from August 
28, 2025) 
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri  
(upto August 28, 2025)
Executive Director
Mr. Randhir Singh
Managing Director & Executive Vice 
Chairman
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Mr. Jayesh Jain 
COMPANY SECRETARY & 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER
Ms. Shikha Jain 
LEADERSHIP TEAM
Mr. Amit Kothari 
Chief Technology Officer
Mr. Arvind Uppal 
Head - Collections
Mr. Devraj C 
Chief Business Officer
Mr. Dipesh Mehta 
Chief Product Officer
Mr. Kaushal Mithani 
Head - Treasury
Mr. K V Bhardwaj 
Chief Credit Officer
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani 
Chief Risk Officer
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M S K A & ASSOCIATES 
Chartered Accountants
CIN: L65100MH2009PLC268160
REGISTERED & 
CORPORATE OFFICE
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No 
301-A,
Opposite P & G Plaza, 
Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), 
Mumbai – 400099
Tel No.: +91 22 4315 7000
E-mail: investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com
Website: www.indostarcapital.
com
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
Asian Building, Ground Floor, 17, 
R Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, 
Mumbai – 400 001
Tel No.: +91 22 40807000
Fax No.: +91 22 66311776
E-mail: itsl@idbitrustee.com
REGISTRAR & TRANSFER 
AGENT
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
(earlier known as Link Intime India 
Private Limited)
C - 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, 
Vikhroli (West),
Mumbai – 400083
Tel No.: +91 22 49186270
Fax No.: +91 22 49186060
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.
co.in
INDEX
INDEX
Disclaimer: 
This document contains statements about expected future events and financials of IndoStar 
Capital Finance Limited (‘The Company’), which are forward-looking. By their nature, 
forward-looking statements require the Company to make assumptions and are subject to 
inherent risks and uncertainties. There is a significant risk that the assumptions, predictions, 
and other forward-looking statements may not prove to be accurate. Readers are cautioned 
not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as several factors could cause 
assumptions, actual future results and events to differ materially from those expressed in 
the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, this document is subject to the disclaimer and 
qualified in its entirety by the assumptions, qualifications and risk factors referred to in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Annual Report.
Scan this QR code to navigate 
investor-related information: 
2024 - 25
CORPORATE OVERVIEW 
1-46
47-153
STATUTORY REPORTS 
3	
Corporate Information
4	
Traction > Speed
6	
About Indostar
8	
Geographic Presence
10	 Momentum is the 
Strategy
12	
Product Portfolio
22	 Financial Highlights
24	 Indostar 2.0 – Strategies 
Guiding Growth
26	 Customer Centricity
30	 Digitalisation Journey
34	 The Power of 
Persistence in Motion
47	 Management Discussion and 
Analysis
74	 Board’s Report
99	 Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
122	 Report on Corporate Governance
154-330
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
154-246   Standalone Financials
154	 Auditor’s Report
168	 Balance Sheet
169	 Statement of Profit and Loss
170	Statement of Cash Flows
172	 Statement of Changes in Equity
174	 Notes to the Financial Statements
247-330   Consolidated Financials
247	Auditor’s Report
258	Balance Sheet
259	Statement of Profit and Loss
260	Statement of Cash Flows
262	Statement of Changes in Equity
264	Notes to the Financial Statements
36	 Chairperson’s 
Message
38	 Managing Director 
and Executive Vice 
Chairman’s Message
40	 HR Initiatives
42	 Corporate 
Governance & Risk 
Management
44	 Board of Directors 
and KMPs
46	 Awards & Accolades
Market Capitalisation 
(as on March 31,  
2025)
:	` 4,181 crore
CIN   
:	L65100MH2009PLC268160
BSE Code	
:	541336
NSE Symbol	
:	INDOSTAR
AGM Date	
:	September 25, 2025
AGM Mode	
:	Through Video Conferencing
INVESTOR INFORMATION
BANKERS
	 AU Small Finance Bank
	 Bank of Maharashtra
	 Canara Bank
	 Central Bank of India
	 DBS Bank India Limited
	 DCB Bank
	 IDFC First Bank 
	 Indian Overseas Bank
	 IndusInd Bank Limited
	 Karur Vysya Bank
	 NABARD (National Bank 
for Agriculture and Rural 
Development)
	 RBL Bank
	 State Bank of India
	 Suryoday Small Finance 
Bank
	 Unity Small Finance Ban
	 Yes Bank Limited
TRACTION 
Moving a heavy flywheel, a massive metal disc mounted on an axle, takes 
tremendous effort. Each initial push feels almost inconsequential. Progress 
is invisible. The momentum seems out of reach.
For IndoStar, this was the post-2020 period. The organisation was carrying 
legacy challenges, complex operations, and scattered focus. But rather 
than chasing a quick fix, IndoStar made a different choice: to push in one 
direction, with intent.
IndoStar’s First Pushes:
	It pulled back from wholesale lending, 
shifting to granular, secured retail finance
	It prioritised governance over growth 
– strengthening credit processes, re-
aligning leadership, and bringing rigour 
back to risk
	It rebuilt credibility across stakeholders 
– investors, lenders, employees, and 
customers
In business, as 
in physics, the 
hardest part is the 
beginning.
SPEED
“You don’t have to see the whole 
staircase, just take the first step.”
— Martin Luther King Jr.
These were steady pushes, necessary 
to align people, processes, and 
purpose. Like the first few turns of 
a flywheel, each action added just 
enough force to keep going.
And though the wheel moved slowly, 
it moved in the right direction.
About IndoStar
RETAIL-FOCUSSED NBFC FOR 
THE EMERGING INDIA
IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited is 
a middle layered 
Non-Banking Finance 
Company (NBFC) 
registered with the 
Reserve Bank of India, 
offering end-to-end 
lending, financing, 
and credit solutions. 
With Brookfield & Everstone 
as co-promoters, IndoStar 
Capital Finance Limited 
(‘ICFL’, ‘IndoStar’ or ‘the 
Company’), is a professionally 
managed and institutionally 
owned entity dealing in 
comprehensive range of 
financial products like 
Used and New Commercial 
Vehicles, Construction 
Equipment, Farm Equipment, 
Car/MUV, Insurance and 
Micro LAP (small-ticket 
business loans). Catering 
to the aspirations of the 
growing consumer base in 
India, ICFL focusses on small 
time retail customers mainly 
in Tier 2 , Tier 3 and Tier 4 
towns, offering them tailor-
made solutions to earn their 
livelihood with competitive 
pricing & transparent terms.
Vision
Core Values
Mission
Partner with our customers 
on their journey to financial 
success.
To be a major financial service 
provider to our target customers 
through empowered happy 
employees, and deliver a 
competitive shareholder return 
while maintaining highest ethical 
behaviour standards.
Ability to 
withstand and 
bounce back from 
difficult, adverse 
or challenging 
situations.
Work as a team towards a 
common goal, through shared 
knowledge, to achieve a 
desired outcome.
Achieving exceptional results 
by exceeding expectations, 
and consistent performance.
Understanding 
the essence of 
Code of Conduct 
and governing 
business 
principles.
Responsibility and 
ownership to the 
committed actions, 
decisions and the 
outcomes of those 
actions.
Resilience
Collaboration
High-Performance
Ethics
Accountability
Key Focus Areas
Key Performance Highlights
Continuously 
evolving 
product 
offerings
Expanding 
customer 
lifetime 
value
Expanding 
distribution 
footprint
Automating 
controls and 
alerts to 
minimise risk
Expanding 
the use of 
data and 
systems
Ensuring 
a robust 
balance 
sheet
Digitalisation
Being agile 
and future-
ready
Corporate Office
MUMBAI
Revenue from Operations
` 1,403.9 CRORE
Instances of bribery or corruption 
cases recorded
0
PAT
` 52.6 CRORE
Employees eligible for health insurance, 
medical insurance, and parental leaves
100% 
Employees 
trained for human 
rights issues
87.85%
Emission 
intensity in tCO2e 
per employee
0.65
Net Stage 3
2.46%
Net Total Income
` 671.6 CRORE
Net Interest Margin
5.6%
Gross Stage 3
4.52%
CRAR
28.5% 
446 
BRANCHES 
across 
23 STATES 
AUM
` 7,963 CRORE
Disbursements 
` 5,250 CRORE
Operational Highlights
Financial Highlights
Sustainability Highlights
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
7
Annual Report 2024-25
6
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Geographic Presence
STRATEGIC PRESENCE ACROSS INDIA
IndoStar’s well-developed and expanding branch network has 
been instrumental in building steady momentum across its retail-
focussed transformation. By delivering tailored lending solutions 
across both urban centres and emerging semi-urban and rural 
markets, the network strengthens customer access, operational 
efficiency, and portfolio quality. 
Each incremental step – new locations, deeper engagement, improved processes – 
reinforces the next, creating a cycle of growth that gains strength with consistency. 
This expanding reach continues to power the Company’s shift toward a more resilient, 
inclusive, and scalable business model.
Disclaimer: This map is a generalised illustration only for the ease of the reader to understand the locations, and 
it is not intended to be used for reference purposes. The representation of political boundaries and the names of 
geographical features/states do not necessarily reflect the actual position. Our Company or any of our Directors, 
officers or employees cannot be held responsible for any misuse or misinterpretation of any information or design 
thereof. Our Company does not warrant or represent any kind of connection with its accuracy or completeness.
25
Andhra Pradesh
20
Telangana
69
Tamil Nadu
12
Chhattisgarh
10
Odisha
12
Jharkhand
1
Goa	
37
Maharashtra
35
Madhya 
Pradesh
31
Rajasthan
22
Karnataka
9
Assam
1
Meghalaya
17
Bihar
35
Uttar Pradesh
29
West Bengal
9
Uttarakhand
21
Kerala
26
Gujarat
12
Haryana
1
New Delhi
10
Punjab
2
Himachal 
Pradesh
Presence
446 BRANCHES
STATES
23
across
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
9
Annual Report 2024-25
8
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
MOMENTUM
IS THE
This is exactly what IndoStar began to experience. With the core realigned, 
the Company focussed on disciplined execution and operational 
compounding:
	Vehicle Finance volumes grew as the used vehicle segment saw tailwinds
	Micro LAP disbursements are gradually scaling through structured rollout 
across tier 3–5 towns
	Cost of funds declined, aided by improved credit ratings and investor 
confidence
	Digital tools like Indo Mitra, Scorecards, and Connector Apps made 
sourcing, underwriting, and collections faster, cheaper, and more accurate
	Governance structures matured, guiding proactive risk management
Each of these was a push. But unlike before, 
now each push built on the previous one.
	More disbursements improved AUM
	Better risk controls reduced delinquencies
	Lower NPAs improved credit perception
	Better perception attracted capital at 
lower cost
Once a flywheel begins to turn, 
physics changes the game. The 
energy from each push does 
not disappear, it accumulates. 
The momentum increases. 
Every additional push 
becomes easier. 
STRATEGY
You do not need a killer innovation 
or lucky break to build momentum 
– just the discipline to keep pushing 
in the right direction.” 
— Jim Collins
This was not just growth. It was 
growth governed by momentum.
And that is what the Flywheel 
Effect is all about:
Continuous actions, aligned 
with a single strategy, 
compounding over time.
ADVANCING RETAIL LENDING 
THROUGH MARKET-CALIBRATED 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Product Portfolio
IndoStar is steadily accelerating its 
retail-led momentum by addressing 
the growing credit demand in 
semi-urban and rural India through 
focussed segments – Vehicle Finance, 
and Micro LAP. Both of these 
segments are thoughtfully designed 
to meet the unique needs of 
underserved borrowers, and together 
they form a cohesive engine that 
gains strength with every turn. 
As customer engagement deepens, operational 
learning sharpens, and digital processes scale, 
each success reinforces the next – compounding 
efficiency, expanding reach, and enhancing 
credit quality. This self-reinforcing cycle is driving 
IndoStar’s transformation into a more secure, 
scalable, and growth-focussed lending platform.
IndoStar has evolved from a predominantly 
Commercial Vehicle (CV) lender into a diversified 
Vehicle Financer with a multi-segment portfolio – 
a transformation driven by its strategic intent to 
capture emerging growth opportunities, enhance 
portfolio resilience, and reduce sector-specific risks. 
Recognising the cyclical vulnerability of the CV 
segment, the Company has proactively expanded 
into adjacent asset classes such as cars, pickups, 
light trucks, small commercial vehicles, and farm and 
construction equipment.
With an aim to improving portfolio granularity and 
risk diversification, the Company has launched 
a ‘Focus 4’ strategy – designed to drive growth 
in secured, small-ticket products, including cars, 
pickups, light trucks, and small commercial vehicles, 
in Tier 3 and Tier 4 towns. These markets are 
witnessing robust demand due to rising prices of 
new vehicles, higher EMIs for new vehicles, and 
increasing preference for affordable used assets, 
amplified by regulatory transitions such as the BS-VI 
norms.
Leveraging the extensive infrastructure, strong 
operational capabilities built for its CV finance 
business, ICFL has created a scalable and cost-
efficient platform to serve broader customer needs. 
Segment Overview
Vehicle 
Finance
Average Ticket Size (ATS) 
2024-25
2023-24
` 6.7 lakhs
` 8.0 lakhs
Resultant
Scaling up in used CV financing: a segment 
where ICFL has built deep domain expertise;
Expansion into high-yield, small-ticket 
secured loans: passenger vehicles, farm 
equipment, and construction finance.
The Company’s approach includes:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
13
Annual Report 2024-25
12
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ICFL’s vehicle finance portfolio is anchored in two broad categories:
This diversity of products and borrowers enhances the resilience of our loan book and provides a natural 
hedge against cyclical downturns in any single segment.
Key Customer Segments
Portfolio and Customer Segments
ICFL’s Strategic Priorities
Financing used and new Medium & Heavy CVs 
(M&HCV), Light CVs (LCV), Intermediate CVs (ICV), 
buses, and other goods transport vehicles.
Commercial Vehicles (CVs) 
	Self-Employed Individuals operating in 
transport and logistics
	Small Fleet Operators managing 2–5 
vehicles
Passenger vehicles (cars, pickups), farm equipment 
(tractors), and construction equipment (light to 
medium machinery).
Non-CV Segments 
Branch Network 
Added in 2024-25
55 BRANCHES
of branches located in Tier 3–5 towns
70%+ 
Finance branches across 23 states
446 VEHICLE 
	 Strong presence in under-penetrated markets with low banking access
	 Proximity to high-growth demand pockets
	 First-mover advantage in several Tier 4 & 5 locations
	 High brand recall among transporters, small-business owners, and 
local communities
	 Deep relationships built over more than a decade in core markets
	 Strong referral-led customer acquisition network
KEY 
STRENGTHS
	First-Time Users entering the CV ownership 
market
	Farmers and Rural Entrepreneurs 
seeking mechanisation or goods transport assets
Diversification 
of portfolio by 
expanding the non-
CV share through 
deeper penetration in 
Passenger Vehicles, 
Farm Equipment, 
and Construction 
Equipment 
Financing.
Network expansion 
and productivity by 
growing our presence in 
underpenetrated rural 
and semi-urban markets 
while enhancing the 
efficiency of the existing 
branch network.
Preservation of 
asset quality 
through disciplined 
underwriting, 
proactive collections, 
and technology-led 
monitoring.
Financial resilience 
by optimising the 
cost of funds and 
maintaining a robust 
capital position to 
support sustainable, 
profitable growth.
The Vehicle Financing business closed the year 2024-25 with an AUM of ` 7,401 crore, up 32% YoY from ` 
5,594 crore in 2023-24. This growth stands out against a relatively flat industry backdrop, indicating the 
success of our diversified, small-ticket approach.
This growth was supported by a deliberate tightening of underwriting standards, evidenced by a reduction 
in Loan-to-Value (LTV) from 73.8% to 72.5%, thus enhancing collateral protection and lowers credit 
risk, strengthening portfolio quality. At the same time, ICFL sustained a healthy disbursement yield of 
approximately 18.5%, driven by higher yields in Used Vehicle and small-ticket segments, which command 
premium pricing given their risk-return profiles.
Performance in 2024-25
AUM 
(in ` crore)
2024-25
7,401
2023-24
5,594
2022-23
3,672
Disbursements
(in ` crore)
2024-25
5,167
2023-24
4,253
2022-23
1,435
North
14
South
37
East
21
West
28
AUM Mix (Geography-Wise)
(%)
North
11
South
41
East
19
West
29
Disbursement Mix (Geography-Wise)
(%)
M&HCV 
37
LCV/ICV 
10
Focus 4 (Cars/Pickups/
SCV/Farm Equipment)
41
Bus 
3
Construction Equipment 
9
Disbursement Mix (Product-Wise)
(%)
Used Vehicle 
Disbursement Share
99
New Vehicle 
Disbursement Share
1
Disbursement Mix (New/Used)
(%)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
15
Annual Report 2024-25
14
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Over the years, the Company has progressively strengthened its credit framework through automated, 
system-driven underwriting and documentation, anchored by robust policy controls. Coupled with proactive, 
technology-enabled collections, this approach ensures high-quality loan origination, early detection of risks, and 
timely resolution of delinquencies—driving sustained improvement in asset quality and a steady decline in NPAs.
Strong Credit 
Underwriting 
Robust 
Collections & 
Monitoring 
Outcome: 
Strong Asset 
Quality & 
Reduced NPAs
Strengthening Credit and Collections Functions
Industry Trends Driving Growth
01
04
02
05
03
06
	 Policy-Linked System Controls 
to block duplicate UCICs and 
enforce rules at the login stage 
in Loan Origination System 
(LOS)
	 End-to-End System-Driven 
Underwriting with automated 
Aadhaar/PAN scanning, 
API-based CIBIL checks, and 
mandatory deduplication
	 AML & Risk Categorisation built 
into LOS with escalation for 
suspicious cases
	 Independent Valuations & 
Automated LTV Governance 
ensuring financing only within 
approved parameters
	 Approval Matrix & Deviation 
Control keeping overrides 
minimal and policy-driven
	 Digitised Documentation & 
Quality Check (QC) through 
E-agreements, eNACH, and pre-
disbursement quality control
	 Real-Time Field Integration 
with geotagging and system-
recorded verifications for 
accountability
	 Post-Disbursement Monitoring 
with daily PDD tracking 
and immediate branch-level 
triggers
	 Early Delinquency 
Management through 
field teams, call centre 
engagement, and digital 
outreach (App, SMS, 
WhatsApp, automated calls)
	 DSA Monitoring & Breach 
Control with immediate 
business holds until 
compliance
	 Proactive Recovery Measures 
such as repossession and legal 
proceedings when needed
	 Strong Managerial Oversight 
to ensure uniform standards 
and quick escalation of risks
Strong 
Asset 
Quality & 
Reduced 
NPAs 
Strong Credit 
Underwriting 
Robust Collections 
& Monitoring 
Outcome
Mega projects such as 
Bharatmala, PM Gati Shakti, and 
Sagarmala are strengthening 
road connectivity and port 
logistics, driving sustained 
freight and passenger transport 
demand
Increasing consumer and policy 
push for EVs, CNG, LNG, and 
hybrid vehicles is opening up 
new product categories and 
financing opportunities
Over the years, the Company has transitioned from its origins in corporate and SME lending to a focused 
retail finance institution, offering diversified products in Vehicle Finance and Micro Loan Against Property 
(Micro LAP). This transformation reflects a deliberate shift towards high-growth, granular segments that offer 
stronger risk dispersion and long-term scalability.
While corporate and SME lending once contributed meaningfully to growth, their larger ticket sizes and 
concentrated exposures are less aligned with the current strategy of building a broad-based, high-yield 
retail portfolio. The recalibration of the portfolio mix is aimed at safeguarding the balance sheet, reducing 
concentration risks, and redeploying capital towards retail engines that can accelerate the Company’s flywheel 
for sustained growth.
Government focus on green 
mobility, rural subsidies, and 
vehicle scrappage policies is 
reshaping fleet renewal and 
stimulating demand across 
vehicle categories
Shift from fragmented to 
organised resale channels, 
supported by transparent pricing 
and certification, is expanding 
the addressable market for 
financiers
Growing urban centres and 
increasing disposable incomes 
are creating sustained mobility 
demand, both for personal and 
goods transport
Expanding adoption of e-KYC, 
automated credit scoring, 
and digital loan origination is 
widening credit access and 
lowering turnaround times, 
especially for small-ticket and 
used vehicle loans
Infrastructure-led 
Freight Expansion
Transition to Alternative Fuel 
and Cleaner Technologies
Policy Support and 
Incentives
Formalisation of the 
Used Vehicle Market
Rising Urbanisation 
and Income Levels
Organised and Digitised 
Financing Ecosystem
Strategic Transition 
from Legacy Portfolios 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
17
Annual Report 2024-25
16
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
The corporate lending portfolio has been steadily 
scaled down as part of this strategic shift. In 
August 2024, the Company sold one corporate 
loan and certain pre-March 2022 Commercial 
Vehicle accounts to Phoenix Asset Reconstruction 
Company, aggregating to ` 320 crore of assets. 
During Q3 2024–25, IndoStar monetised ` 135 crore 
of Security Receipts from a corporate loan pool, 
simultaneously settling a ` 60 crore linked liability. 
At year-end, Security Receipts stood at ` 1,387 crore 
with provisioning of about 25–26%, supported by 
active recovery measures.
The corporate loan book declined from ` 388 crore 
in March 2024 to ` 156 crore in March 2025, driven 
by focussed legal action, negotiated settlements, 
and direct customer engagement. While fresh 
disbursements of ` 29 crore were made during 
the year, these were selective and in line with the 
cautious stance taken towards this segment. The 
residual ‘old book’ of ~` 211 crore, of corporate 
exposures, carries zero DPD as on March 31, 2025.
Targeting customers engaged in small-scale trading, 
manufacturing, and service activities primarily in 
Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns, the Micro LAP portfolio:
Expand geographic reach 
in high-potential semi-urban 
and rural clusters, leveraging 
dedicated on-ground teams, 
a fully digital origination 
model, and existing branch 
infrastructure to scale the Micro 
LAP business from current 
markets into new states in a 
calibrated manner.
Strengthen cross-sell 
capabilities within 
existing customer 
segments, using the 
vehicle finance network 
to introduce Micro LAP 
and other retail products, 
deepening relationships 
and increasing customer 
lifetime value.
Optimise cost 
structures through 
operational synergies, 
maximising branch and 
technology infrastructure 
across product lines to 
enable scalable growth 
with minimal incremental 
costs.
With the phased reduction of legacy SME and 
corporate exposures, IndoStar has been consciously 
redeploying capital into segments that offer 
stronger risk diversification, sustained demand, and 
healthier collateral cover. One of the most significant 
steps in this transition during 2024–25 was the 
introduction of the Micro Loan Against Property 
(Micro LAP) product. 
The Micro LAP product offers small-ticket, fully 
secured loans, typically below `6 lakhs, against 
self-owned residential property. These loans enable 
borrowers to meet working capital requirements, 
invest in business expansion, or manage other 
The SME portfolio has also been progressively 
reduced to align with the retailisation strategy.
By March 2025, the SME book had reduced to ` 353 
crore from ` 485 crore a year earlier, with recoveries 
supported by legal action, negotiated settlements, 
and direct engagement with customers. No fresh 
disbursements were made in this portfolio during 
the year, reflecting the decision to redeploy capital 
towards higher-yield, lower-concentration retail 
businesses.
Corporate Lending
Portfolio and Customer Segments
ICFL’s Strategic Priorities
Segment Overview
SME Lending
Micro Loan Against 
Property (Micro LAP)
productive needs, while ensuring strong collateral 
coverage. IndoStar has built a dedicated local 
team of over 300 people focussed exclusively on 
this business. From day one, the product has been 
offered through a fully digital, end-to-end journey 
with API integrations on existing LOS and LMS 
platforms, incurring no incremental technology 
costs. Leveraging shared branch infrastructure 
ensures cost efficiency, while the vehicle finance 
network is being used both for market expansion 
and for cross-selling opportunities, as seen in early 
successes in Tamil Nadu.
Offers collateral-backed loans secured 
by clear title residential property, with 
LTV typically below 50%.
Provides loan tenures of 5–7 years and average 
ticket sizes ranging ` 3–6 lakhs, significantly 
lower than legacy SME loans of ` 50 lakhs+. 
In its first year of operations, IndoStar’s Micro LAP portfolio reached ` 52 crore in AUM, with ` 54 crore 
disbursed to around 1,000 active borrowers. The rollout leveraged the Company’s expanding distribution 
footprint and robust credit processes, resulting in sound early repayment trends and a healthy risk profile.
Performance in 2024-25
AUM 
(in ` crore)
2024-25
52
Disbursement
(in ` crore)
2024-25
54
Strengthening Credit and Collections Functions
Building on the robust credit framework established in Vehicle Finance, the Micro LAP portfolio benefits from 
IndoStar’s automated underwriting, policy-linked controls, and system-driven credit monitoring. Additionally, 
it employs:
	 CRIF data for enhanced risk profiling specific to microfinance segments
	 Granular bounce and collection tracking to proactively manage early delinquencies
	 Dedicated collections outreach using digital channels and field support to maintain asset quality
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
19
Annual Report 2024-25
18
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Industry Trends Driving Growth
01
04
02
05
03
Increasing economic activity 
in smaller cities and towns is 
driving demand for small-ticket 
secured loans among low- and 
mid-income MSMEs, who rely on 
Micro LAP for business expansion 
and working capital 
The growing middle class, 
increasing urbanisation, and 
a resilient SME sector are 
expanding the borrowing base 
for Micro LAP products, ensuring 
sustained demand despite 
cyclical economic shifts
Government initiatives and 
FinTech platforms are promoting 
credit access for underserved 
segments through simplified 
documentation, e-KYC, and faster 
loan disbursal 
Micro LAP loans are being 
increasingly deployed for diverse 
purposes, from business expansion 
and working capital to education 
and medical emergencies, 
supporting consistent growth 
across customer segments
A rising preference for secured 
credit over unsecured loans 
among individuals and MSMEs, 
due to better interest rates, 
higher loan amounts, and the 
inherent comfort of collateral, is 
fuelling Micro LAP uptake
Growing MSME 
Credit Demand in 
Tier 2–4 Cities
Rising Middle Class and 
Economic Resilience
Expanding Financial 
Inclusion and Digital 
Lending
Financial Products 
Catering to Diverse Needs
Increasing Demand 
for Small-Ticket 
Secured Credit
In line with its strategy to focus on core retail 
lending businesses, IndoStar completed the sale of 
its wholly-owned subsidiary, IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited (now Niwas Housing Finance 
Private Limited), to Witkopeend BV, an affiliate 
of BPEA EQT Mid-Market Growth Partnership. 
The transaction was announced at a fully diluted 
consideration of ` 1,750 crore and was completed on 
July 17, 2025, with necessary approvals in place. 
Strategic Divestment of 
Housing Finance Business
This divestment enables IndoStar to concentrate 
capital and management attention on its higher-
return Commercial Vehicle Finance and Micro LAP 
segments. The inflow from the sale is expected to 
strengthen the Company’s capital position, and 
improve Return on Equity (ROE). Management 
views this as a key enabler for sustaining profitable 
growth without the need for additional equity 
fundraising in the near term.
Segment-Wise Revenue Contribution
Assets Under Management (AUM) – ` 7,963 crore
Gross Retail Disbursement – ` 5,221 crore
Vehicle Finance
Vehicle Finance
SME Finance
Micro LAP 
Corporate Lending/Other
Micro LAP
7,401 
(93%)
5,167 
(98.97%)
353 
(4%)
54 
(1.03%)
156 
(2%)
52 
(1%)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
21
Annual Report 2024-25
20
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
SNAPSHOT
Financial Highlights
Over the past five years, IndoStar has set in motion a disciplined 
transformation – shifting towards secured, high-yield retail lending while 
enhancing governance and operational resilience. This deliberate pivot has 
not only led to stronger disbursement growth and profitability, but also to a 
more granular, stable AUM base and improved asset quality. 
Each of these outcomes has strengthened the 
next, setting off a self-reinforcing cycle where 
performance improvements fuel greater 
efficiency, attract higher-quality borrowers, 
and build institutional confidence. This 
momentum is now propelling IndoStar toward 
sustainable, inclusive, and scalable growth.
Assets Under Management 
(in ` crore)
2024-25
7,963
2023–24
6,493
2022-23
6,191
2021–22
8,252
2020–21
8,001
Return on Average Assets (ROAA)
(%)
2024-25
0.51
2023–24
0.85
2022-23
2.51
2021–22
(8.27)
2020–21
(2.30)
Return on Equity (ROE)
(%)
2024-25
1.61
2023–24
2.35
2022-23
7.07
2021–22
(22.04)
2020–21
(6.61)
Net Total Income
(in ` crore)
2024-25
671.6 
2023–24
544.1 
2022-23
475.1 
2021–22
539.2 
2020–21
501.0 
Disbursements
(in ` crore)
2024-25
5,250
2023–24
4,560
2022-23
1,612
2021–22
4,368
2020–21
1,539
Net Worth
(in ` crore)
2024-25
3,426 
2023–24
3,102 
2022-23
3,023 
2021–22
2,878 
2020–21
3,679 
Gross and Net NPA 
(%)
2024-25
Gross
NPA
4.52
2.46
4.97
2.09
8.06
3.78
15.52
7.29
4.40
1.98
2023–24
2022-23
2021–22
2020–21
Net Interest Margin 
(%)
2024-25
5.60
2023–24
5.50
2022-23
5.70
2021–22
5.80
2020–21
4.80
Net Interest Income (NII) 
(in ` crore)
2024-25
663.1 
2023–24
523.0 
2022-23
450.9 
2021–22
527.9 
2020–21
495.6 
Profit After Tax (PAT)
(in ` crore)
2024-25
52.6 
2023–24
71.6 
2022-23
187.3 
2021–22
(769.2) 
2020–21
(241.5) 
(Total Income minus finance costs)
2024-25
61%
2023-24
68%
2022-23
72%
2021-22
72%
Cost to Income Ratio (%)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
23
Annual Report 2024-25
22
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
STRATEGIC REALIGNMENT TOWARDS 
RETAIL-CENTRIC GROWTH AND CLARITY
IndoStar 2.0 – Strategies Guiding Growth
IndoStar’s growth strategy is built on strengthening its retail footprint, 
enhancing product profitability, maintaining robust asset quality, and driving 
cost efficiency through digital and process-led innovation. Guided by the 
transformation roadmap of IndoStar 2.0 and propelled by the newly launched 
Project LEAP, the Company is focussed on building a scalable, resilient, and 
profitable lending platform tailored to underserved markets.
Project 
LEAP
As IndoStar’s retailisation journey gathered 
momentum under the IndoStar 2.0 blueprint, 
it became clear that achieving the next phase 
of growth required more than just portfolio 
realignment. To scale profitably in a competitive, 
cost-conscious environment, the Company needed 
a sharper operating rhythm, one that could reduce 
inefficiencies, unify processes across a growing 
branch network, and strengthen accountability at 
every level.
This insight gave rise to Project LEAP – Lean, 
Efficient, Agile, Profitable, a Company-wide 
transformation programme launched in 2024-25 
to turn strategic intent into operational excellence. 
Initially piloted at the Head Office to refine its 
framework, the project has since been deployed 
across all business units and branches, driving 
measurable improvements in speed, cost efficiency, 
and service quality.
IndoStar 2.0 marks a decisive shift from legacy 
wholesale lending to a retail-first platform. 
The Company is scaling small-ticket, secured 
products in underpenetrated markets using a 
multiproduct branch model. With technology 
embedded across the loan lifecycle and a 
clear focus on returns, IndoStar 2.0 lays the 
foundation for sustainable, profitable growth.
Its core thrust areas include:
	 Aligning operational activities closely with 
strategic priorities, ensuring every action 
supports long-term growth goals
	 Driving innovation in product, process, and 
service delivery to differentiate IndoStar in 
underserved markets
	 Eliminating inefficiencies and optimising cost 
structures to improve profitability without 
compromising service
	 Leveraging data and technology to enhance 
speed, accuracy, and productivity across the loan 
lifecycle
By embedding these practices, Project LEAP acts as 
the execution engine of IndoStar 2.0, bridging the 
gap between what the Company wants to achieve 
and how it gets done, thus creating a disciplined, 
scalable platform for sustained retail-centric growth.
Key Actions:
Focus on Higher-Yield Products
Portfolio mix leaned 
heavily on larger-ticket 
loans, with retail AUM 
at 84%. Used CV focus 
was emerging but not 
dominant, and branch 
presence was largely 
in higher-tier markets.
	 Recalibrated product mix to high-yield, low-
ticket secured loans (Used CVs, Passenger 
Vehicles, Farm Equipment)
	 Launched high-yield Micro LAP in May 
2024 for rural and semi-urban micro-
entrepreneurs
	 Incentivised branch teams on unit economics 
to ensure branch-level profitability
	 Corporate insurance tie-ups with HDFC Life, 
Bajaj Allianz GIC, Magma HDI, Tata AIA and 
Chola MS to offer loan and credit protection
Retail AUM at 98%, 
99% of vehicle finance 
disbursements in used 
vehicles, CV yields at 
~18.5%, and ticket size 
reduced to ` 6.7 lakhs 
to improve granularity. 
Branch footprint extended 
deep into Tier 3 & 4 towns 
through micro-branches.
Before Indostar 2.0
After Indostar 2.0
Strengthening Asset Quality
Gross Stage 3 assets 
at 8.06%, Net Stage 
3 at 3.78%, stress 
book ~5% of vehicle 
finance AUM, and 
legacy corporate/SME 
exposures dragging 
asset quality.
	 Technology-enabled collections to minimise 
cash handling
	 Optimised collection infrastructure with a 
1+ flow process for faster recoveries
	 Reduced stressed non-core assets by 
exiting corporate and SME books
	 Cleared legacy delinquencies in core 
business via repossessions and settlements
Gross Stage 3 reduced 
to 4.52%, Net Stage 3 
to 2.46%, stress book 
contained at ~4%, 
supported by strong gross 
collection efficiencies 
(97% in Q4 2024-25).
Before Indostar 2.0
After Indostar 2.0
Diversifying the Liability Franchise
Ratings under 
pressure (AA-/
Negative from CRISIL, 
A+ from CARE) with 
higher reliance on 
legacy debt and fewer 
funding channels.
	 Multiple securitisation transactions and 
a successful public NCD issue
	 Increasing bank funding share to replace 
costlier borrowings
	 Maintaining a strong cash position and 
disciplined gearing (2.0x standalone)
Long-term ratings upgraded 
to ‘AA-/Stable’ by CARE in 
November 2023 and long term 
ratings outlook revised to 
‘Stable’ by CRISIL in September 
2024 and short-term rating 
maintained A1+ by both CRISIL 
and CARE. Funding mix 
diversified across banks, capital 
markets, and securitisation, 
with bank funding share 
steadily increasing.
Before Indostar 2.0
After Indostar 2.0
Cost Optimisation and Operating Efficiency
404 branches, larger 
legacy formats, higher 
manpower costs, and 
slower origination-to-
disbursal turnaround.
	 Leveraged technology across the loan lifecycle 
to speed up origination through disbursal
	 Opened micro-branches with smaller 
catchments and lean staffing
	 Scaled up customer self-service through the 
Indo Mitra app and digital fulfilment tools
	 Continued process digitisation to lower service 
costs and improve efficiency
446 branches with a 
rising share of lean 
micro-branches despite 
expansion.
Before Indostar 2.0
After Indostar 2.0
The transformation rests on four key strategic pillars:
2.0 
IndoStar 
The details in the ‘Before Indostar 2.0’ part include numbers from 2022-23, before Indostar 2.0 strategy was initiated while the numbers in the 
‘After Indostar 2.0’ part include the numbers as of March 31, 2025.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
25
Annual Report 2024-25
24
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
CUSTOMER-FIRST INITIATIVES FOR 
INCLUSIVE & SEAMLESS LENDING
Customer Centricity
IndoStar’s strategic vision is anchored in creating a truly customer-centric 
lending platform – one that anticipates and adapts to evolving customer 
needs across retail segments. The Company’s deliberate focus on digitisation, 
regional depth, and product innovation creates a differentiated, scalable 
model that puts customers first at every stage of their borrowing journey.
Simpler, Faster, and 
Transparent Lending
Reaching 
Underserved 
Markets
Responsible Lending, 
Trusted Relationships
IndoStar strengthened its digital capabilities 
to deliver a seamless and efficient borrowing 
experience:
	 2-day average turnaround time for loan 
sanctioning through automated workflows and 
real-time credit scoring
	 100% digital process for Micro LAP
	 Self-service mobile apps offering EMI schedules, 
document access, and payment tracking
	 Only 7-8% of collections in cash, highlighting 
digital adoption
IndoStar deepened financial inclusion by 
expanding across Tier 3 to Tier 5 towns, 
supported by lean micro-branch models and 
localised sourcing. In the vehicle segment, the 
average loan ticket size stood at  
` 6.7 lakhs, addressing rural affordability needs. 
The CV Finance vertical served customers 
across 23 states, with ~45% of the portfolio 
concentrated in the southern markets.
IndoStar’s lending approach is built on speed, 
simplicity, and transparency, as consistently 
reflected in customer feedback. Its responsible 
practices, minimal documentation, clear 
communication, and strong digital support, enhance 
borrower confidence and credit behaviour.
Its granular and diversified portfolio strategy 
ensures stability while supporting a broad base of 
retail borrowers.
The Loan Mela activity allows direct engagement 
with customers without the need for fixed 
infrastructure. With negligible incremental cost, 
limited to tents, standees, and basic team expenses, 
the initiative has already contributed 3–4% of 
monthly disbursements, adding meaningfully to the 
topline. The Loan Mela formalises this approach by 
creating a standardised outreach format, supported 
by partnerships with local transporter associations 
and bulk deployment of marketing materials. 
Loan Mela Activity
The Company also introduced profile-
based PD templates, a digital connector 
onboarding app, and backend system 
automation to reduce manual intervention 
and standardise underwriting.
Annual Report 2024-25
26
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
27
Fuelling Recovery and Growth
From 7 to 25 Vehicles – Powered by Trust 
From Driver to Fleet Owner 
Brothers Behind the Wheel of Progress
C a s e  S t u d y
C a s e  S t u d y
C a s e  S t u d y
C a s e  S t u d y
Uma Maheswar Reddy, Managing Partner of 
M/s. Jagan Travels, has been operating night 
service buses for over two decades. With a 
fleet of 50 buses covering routes across South 
and East India, his business is a vital regional 
mobility provider.
His association with IndoStar Capital Finance 
began nine years ago with funding for new 
buses. Over time, IndoStar became a reliable 
financial partner, supporting both fleet 
expansion and working capital needs through 
refinancing.
The journey of this IndoStar customer began in 
2019 with just seven commercial vehicles. Today, 
he owns over 25 – a result of hard work and 
the consistent support from IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited.
From the start, IndoStar, through Mr. Rajesh 
Kumar, provided timely approvals, quick 
disbursals, and a seamless digital process that 
minimised paperwork and eliminated the need 
for physical signatures. The convenience and 
efficiency made every loan experience smooth 
and stress-free.
The financial partnership has not only enabled 
his business growth but also personal progress – 
from living in a rented home to building his own 
house. His positive experience with IndoStar has 
led him to refer many others and build a long-
term relationship with the Company.
From a small village in Domgarh, Kuandarki (Dist. 
Moradabad, UP), Mohd Naim’s journey is a remarkable 
story of grit, determination, and transformation. Starting 
as a helper and cleaner in the transport trade, Naim 
rose through the ranks to become a long-route driver, 
covering extensive stretches from UP to West Bengal.
Coming from a humble farming background with financial 
responsibilities at an early age, his dream was always to 
own a vehicle of his own. That dream turned into reality 
when he financed his first used commercial vehicle 
through IndoStar Capital Finance Limited.
With a disciplined approach and a strong market 
reputation, Naim soon found himself with growing 
opportunities. IndoStar supported him again, this time 
to acquire a brand-new TATA 1918. Today, he proudly 
Rakesh Kumar Singh and his younger brother 
Nitesh Kumar, hailing from Giridih, Jharkhand, are 
a shining example of how perseverance, family 
support, and the right financing partner can drive 
long-term success.
Their association with IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited (ICFL) began in 2021, when Rakesh took 
his first loan to finance a commercial vehicle. 
From day one, IndoStar impressed with quick file 
processing, hassle-free appraisals, and a digital 
loan experience that minimised paperwork and 
eliminated the need for physical signatures.
Starting with two vehicles, the brothers steadily 
expanded their operations to own more than eight 
IndoStar has supported me throughout my journey – from my early days to now. 
Their quick processing, digital convenience, and personal attention have helped 
me grow – in business and in life. 
– Ganpathy K, Sri Krishna Travels
IndoStar stood by us when we needed them the most. Their timely support helped 
us rebuild and grow stronger. I fully trust and recommend them.
– Uma Maheswar Reddy
IndoStar is like family. They have always stood by me, 
not like a bank, but like a true friend.
– Mohd Naim
IndoStar supported us like a partner from day one. Their process is smooth, the 
service is personal, and we always felt heard. With their help, we grew our fleet 
and built our home.
– Rakesh Kumar Singh & Nitesh Kumar
owns four commercial vehicles, three of which 
are financed by IndoStar, and enjoys a better 
quality of life.
Beyond his own success, Mohd Naim has 
become an inspiration in his village, guiding 
other drivers on the path to ownership and 
financial independence.
commercial vehicles, the majority financed by 
ICFL. The trust built over multiple loan cycles 
led them to become long-standing customers 
with a strong relationship with the Giridih 
branch team.
The growth didn’t stop with business. With 
improved income and financial stability, the 
family was able to build a new, larger home 
– a significant milestone from their modest 
beginnings. Their satisfaction with IndoStar’s 
service has made them active advocates, 
referring many new customers from their 
community.
The COVID-19 pandemic tested the resilience of 
his business. Operations came to a halt, and cash 
flows dried up. While many lenders hesitated, 
IndoStar acted promptly, extending refinancing 
support that helped him retain staff and prepare 
for a restart.
Mr. Reddy availed funding for four new buses. 
The process, he says, was smooth – quick 
approvals, minimal paperwork, and responsive 
service. With IndoStar’s continued support, 
Jagan Travels is now back on its growth path.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
29
Annual Report 2024-25
28
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
As credit demand shifts to newer borrower segments and geographies, the 
Company is leveraging its digital capabilities to respond with agility. Real-
time data, integrated tools, and self-service platforms ensure responsiveness, 
scalability, and long-term viability across a diverse market landscape.
ENABLING END-TO-END 
DIGITAL INTEGRATION
Digitalisation Journey 
Digital-first Customer Experience
Digital interfaces are central to the Company’s 
engagement model. Customer onboarding, 
servicing, and interactions are increasingly handled 
through digital platforms. Micro-branches operate 
with app-based interfaces, while housing finance 
customers are served remotely through paperless 
journeys. Product design and customer experience 
are shaped using data analytics to ensure precision 
in service delivery.
	Mobile-first approach deployed at micro-
branches
This digital-first model enables downstream 
integration of automation across the lending 
lifecycle.
IndoStar Connect: Enabling  
End-to-End Digital Lending 
IndoStar has launched IndoStar Connect, a next-
generation Loan Origination System (LOS) designed 
to drive scale, productivity, and compliance. Built 
on a cloud-native platform, the system supports 
seamless mobile and web-based onboarding, 
enabling faster decision-making and paperless 
lending.
The platform strengthens the entire lending value 
chain:
Real-time 
Bounce dashboards and predictive analytics 
deployed at branch level
By combining automation with real-time data 
integration, IndoStar Connect enhances operational 
efficiency, improves credit quality, and ensures 
regulatory compliance, while delivering a superior 
customer experience.
Tech-enabled Micro LAP Rollout
The Micro LAP product, launched in 2024-25, is 
built entirely on the existing digital architecture. It 
operates on a low-cost, API-led model that supports 
small-ticket loans to self-employed borrowers in 
rural and semi-urban areas. Origination, credit 
evaluation, disbursal, and monitoring are executed 
through system integrations without additional tech 
investments.
	Fully digital origination and servicing model
	LTV maintained below 50%
	Average ticket size under ` 6 lakhs
The rollout validates the flexibility and extensibility 
of the Company’s technology backbone.
Sales Flow
Instant lead capture via mobile 
app, digital consent, one-click KYC 
and CIBIL checks, geo-tagged field 
verification, and automated case 
allocation
Credit Flow
Early authentication of customer bank 
details, repayment mapping from 
CIBIL, AI-driven credit assessments, 
and instant AML checks for robust risk 
control
Average turnaround time (TAT) from 
origination to disbursal
2 DAYS
Paperless digital onboarding in  
retail products
100% 
Disbursals processed through automated loan 
kits and digital channels
40%+ 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
31
Annual Report 2024-25
30
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Scalable, Cost-efficient Tech Infrastructure
Digital systems have been optimised to enhance employee output and reduce operating costs. Productivity 
gains have been driven by real-time data access, task-level automation, and revised KPIs aligned with digital 
tools. Technology enables geographic scale without proportional increase in cost, allowing the Company to 
maintain lean operations even as volumes rise.
	Target cost-to-income ratio near 50%
	No incremental tech spending is required for Micro LAP expansion
The infrastructure is designed to support scale with minimal marginal cost, contributing to long-term 
operating leverage.
Digital Tools: ‘Path’ App, 
Scorecards, and Connector App
Technology enablement extends to employee tools 
and partner onboarding systems. The ‘Path’ app, 
used by the salesforce, is fully integrated into the 
origination workflow, automating kit generation and 
approvals. Scorecards and Probability of Default 
(PD) frameworks are being developed to improve 
consistency in credit profiling, especially in informal-
income segments. The digital connector interface, 
currently in the launch phase, will streamline 
referral partner activation through a fully digitised 
onboarding process.
Digital Vendor Management 
System
To streamline vendor creation, ensure compliance, 
and provide complete visibility for vendor-related 
activities, IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
introduced Digital Vendor Management System. 
This platform aims to enhance user experience, 
reduce Turn Around Time (TAT), and minimise 
manual interventions while maintaining regulatory 
and operational standards. With this launch, entire 
vendor onboarding journey for business and non-
business vendors will be fully digital and will be 
completed digitally on this platform.
	Streamlined and automated workflow for 
vendor onboarding
	Faster processing with reduced manual 
intervention
	Enhanced accuracy and compliance with 
regulatory standards
	Centralised document management for 
easy access and tracking
Key Benefits
These systems improve sourcing efficiency while 
ensuring compliance and control.
of disbursals processed via 
automated loan kits
OVER 40%
Connector app currently being 
deployed for referral partner 
onboarding
Ensuring Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity threat landscape has significantly 
evolved in the last few years. To safeguard itself 
and its customers from imminent cyber threats, 
IndoStar Capital has adopted a holistic approach 
to strengthen the overall cybersecurity posture by 
significantly investing in hiring and upskilling teams, 
enhancing process, fine tuning incident response 
plans and assessing readiness to mitigate any 
incidents by investing in latest technology solutions. 
Further, a comprehensive approach encompassing 
the four pillars: 
has been put in place to manage and mitigate 
cybersecurity risks. This has helped IndoStar Capital 
create a more robust and resilient cybersecurity 
posture that is better equipped to withstand and 
recover from any cyberattacks.
Protect
Respond
Detect
Recover
Mobile & Self-Service Platforms
Customer and branch-facing applications are key 
to delivering scalable services. These platforms 
support core functions such as loan application 
status, payments, redressals, and servicing without 
physical intervention. The Company continues to 
increase self-service penetration across micro-
branches and the housing finance vertical.
	Mobile-enabled service integrated into all core 
retail verticals
	System-led self-service model operational at 
micro-branches and in housing finance
These platforms reduce servicing costs while 
improving turnaround and transparency.
1
3
2
4
Indo Mitra App
Indo Mitra is a mobile application designed 
exclusively for customers of IndoStar, offering a 
seamless and convenient way to manage their 
vehicle loans. Built with user-friendly features and 
real-time updates, the app empowers users to verify 
their loan credentials, explore available vehicle 
listings, and engage directly with the IndoStar team.
	Access loan details easily
	Stay updated about new features
	Browse through our vehicle directory
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
33
Annual Report 2024-25
32
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
THE POWER 
OF 
PERSISTENCE 
Unlocking a Self-Reinforcing Cycle:
	 Project LEAP (Lean, Efficient, Agile, Profitable), launched in March 2025, aimed at 
embedding operational discipline and digital agility across the organisation
	 Micro LAP pilot scaled to over 1,000 customers, ` 52 crore AUM, and zero 
delinquencies, positioning it as a high-yield, low-risk growth driver
	 Used vehicle focus (99% of CV disbursements) and entry into Farm Equipment and 
Passenger Vehicles diversified income streams
	 Non-CV disbursements (Used Cars, Tractors, and Farm Equipment) accounted for 41% of 
total disbursements - ` 5,250 crore, highlighting early success in diversification
	 Branch network expanded to 446 locations, deepening rural and semi-urban penetration.
	 Affordable Housing Finance exit marked a strategic simplification, unlocking capital and 
sharpening core focus
And what began as an effort to survive 
has become a model to scale:
	Scale that’s controlled
	Growth that’s profitable
	Expansion that’s purposeful
By the end of 2024-25, 
IndoStar’s flywheel had 
gathered meaningful 
velocity. It no longer needed 
extraordinary effort to move 
– because systems, people, 
and direction were 
aligned.
IN MOTION
There is a moment in every 
flywheel journey when the system, 
once heavy and resistant, begins to 
generate its own energy. Less effort 
now yields more impact. 
IndoStar’s journey is no longer 
about turning around. It’s about 
staying the course and letting 
each rotation power the next. 
Because in a well-built flywheel, 
momentum becomes self-
sustaining. 
Dear Stakeholders,
The year 2024-25 has been a transformational year for 
IndoStar. The pieces we had been putting in place – a 
sharper focus on retail, a stronger and more balanced 
portfolio, deeper cultural cohesion, came together like 
the gears of a finely tuned engine. We moved away 
from the legacy path of corporate lending and pivoted 
firmly toward retail lending, a decision rooted not in 
short-term trends, but in long-term conviction. 
Every decision we made, from diversifying products to 
embedding technology across touchpoints, was part 
of a broader choreography aimed at improving quality, 
sustainability, and consistency. These were not isolated 
shifts. There were thought through to make sure one 
was cohesive with the other. They were steps in a 
carefully planned journey that’s now gathering speed 
and energy.
A Changing Landscape, A Sharpened Focus
This momentum was shaped against a backdrop of 
strong but evolving macroeconomic conditions. In 
2024–25, India’s economy continued to stand out 
as a beacon of growth, clocking 6.5% GDP growth 
despite a volatile global backdrop. Strong domestic 
consumption, sustained infrastructure investment, and 
ongoing formalisation underpinned expansion, while 
inflation stayed largely within the RBI’s target range. 
Credit demand was robust, particularly in retail and 
MSME segments, fuelled by rising incomes and deeper 
digital penetration.
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRPERSON 
Chairperson’s Message  
Within this context, NBFCs played an increasingly 
important role in expanding financial access, growing 
credit at nearly 20%, well above the 12% recorded by 
commercial banks. Total net advances rose to  
` 24.5 lakh crore, and sector assets grew 20% to ` 28.2 
lakh crore. Growth was supported by diversification 
into higher-margin segments such as vehicle finance, 
infrastructure lending, and emerging retail products. 
operational efficiency gains, modest asset quality 
improvement, and rapid technology adoption enhanced 
customer engagement, credit assessment, and 
collections. However, profitability in the microfinance 
segment fell sharply, reflecting elevated stress levels.
The sector also underwent structural change. The 
number of registered NBFCs fell slightly amid tighter 
regulatory oversight, stronger compliance norms, and 
RBI-led encouragement of consolidation for stability. At 
the same time, new entrants, particularly FinTechs and 
private equity-backed platforms, targeted underserved 
and informal borrower segments. Funding sources 
diversified, with greater use of Private Placement 
and Public Issue of non-convertible debentures and 
External Commercial Borrowings. With most players 
well-capitalised and embracing digital innovation, the 
NBFC sector emerged more resilient, more efficient, 
and better positioned to deliver inclusive credit across 
India’s diverse economic landscape.
From Stability to Self-Sustaining Growth
IndoStar navigated this dynamic external environment 
with discipline and determination. We focussed not just 
on growth, but on sustainable growth. During the year, 
we brought down our incremental cost of funds by over 
200 basis points. We sharpened our liability mix and 
prepared to retire legacy high-cost borrowings early in 
2025–26. Our progress is already earning recognition 
as CRISIL reaffirmed our long-term credit rating at 
AA-, while revising our outlook to ‘Stable’. Our capital 
adequacy ratio stands strong at 28.5%, and improved 
operating metrics signal tighter cost control and 
focussed execution.
This institutional strength has laid the groundwork for a 
new phase – one driven by self-sustaining momentum. 
Total Advances Growth
` 24.5 LAKH CRORE
Return on Average Assets 
2.5%
machinery. A major growth lever was the launch of the 
Micro LAP vertical, designed for small businesses and 
rural entrepreneurs, a high-yield segment well-suited to 
our branches and collections infrastructure. 
Operationally, we strengthened our talent base, and 
reinforced control frameworks. Simultaneously, we 
also advanced our digital transformation through 
mobile-enabled sales platforms, digitised onboarding, 
automated underwriting, and cloud-based loan 
management systems. These investments are 
designed to boost scalability without proportionate 
cost increases, positioning us as an integrated, retail-
focussed NBFC capable of serving diverse borrower 
needs with agility, accuracy, affordability and 
accountability.
Outlook: Turning Momentum into Motion
Looking ahead, we aim to grow our AUM and scale 
the Micro LAP business while enhancing return ratios 
through strong asset quality, better operating leverage, 
and a more granular portfolio. Efficiency will be driven 
by lowering the cost-to-income ratio via digital tools, 
shared infrastructure, and synergies. 
These objectives align with the IndoStar 2.0 strategy, 
built on four priorities: cost optimisation, liability 
diversification, asset quality, and focus on high-yielding 
secured retail products. Project LEAP, launched in 
March 2025, is the transformation engine promoting 
lean, efficient, agile, and profitable operations through 
governance, data use, technology support, cost control, 
and execution alignment. 
With our flywheel gaining momentum, we expect 
compounding benefits in productivity, customer value, 
and scalability, shifting from one-time transformation to 
ongoing improvement.
In Closing
In closing, I would like to thank all our stakeholders – 
our customers, partners, shareholders, employees, and 
regulators – for your trust and support. 
Thank you for being part of this journey thus far.
Warm regards,
Naina Krishna Murthy 
Chairperson
Our progress is already earning 
recognition as CRISIL reaffirmed 
our long-term credit rating at 
AA-, while revising our outlook 
to ‘Stable’. Our capital adequacy 
ratio stands strong at 28.5%, 
and improved operating metrics 
signal tighter cost control and 
focussed execution.
With favourable macro tailwinds, a sharpened strategy, 
and a disciplined balance sheet, we are entering this 
next chapter with renewed confidence.
A Year of Deliberate Action
In 2024–25, we demonstrated clarity of purpose by 
reshaping our portfolio and sharpening our strategic 
focus. We exited legacy businesses, most notably, 
divesting our housing finance subsidiary, Niwas Housing 
Finance Private Limited, to an affiliate of BPEA EQT 
for ` 1,750 crore. This move freed up capital for higher-
yielding segments and enhanced operational focus.
We expanded our reach, adding 55 branches in 
underbanked geographies and growing our network 
to 446 locations, primarily across Tier 3 to Tier 5 
towns. This deeper penetration supports secured 
retail lending expansion. The Vehicle Finance business 
transitioned from a primarily commercial vehicle lender 
to a diversified player, financing used medium and 
heavy commercial vehicles, light commercial vehicles, 
passenger vehicles, farm equipment, and construction 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
37
Annual Report 2024-25
36
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Dear Stakeholders,
2024-25 marked a pivotal chapter in the Company’s 
transformation journey. The momentum we’ve been 
building over the past few years translated into tangible 
acceleration this year. Our flywheel, driven by deliberate 
strategy, disciplined execution, and deep customer 
focus, began to turn faster, reinforcing the principle that 
progress compounds when every action builds on the 
last. This wasn’t just about growing, it was about doing 
so with purpose, resilience, and scalability.
Strengthening Purpose with Strategic Clarity
Our enhanced momentum is rooted in IndoStar 2.0, 
a multi-year transformation aimed at evolving from a 
hybrid lending model into a high-quality, retail-focussed 
NBFC built on risk-calibrated lending, operational 
efficiency, and stronger customer engagement. This 
was a structural overhaul of our portfolio, processes, 
and culture, not just a shift in priorities. To embed this 
strategy into daily execution, we launched Project 
LEAP in March 2025, a Company-wide initiative to 
make IndoStar Lean, Efficient, Agile, and Profitable. 
Now integral to our operations, LEAP drives structural 
efficiencies, boosts productivity, and aligns every 
function with our long-term strategic intent.
Delivering Strong Financial Outcomes
This clarity of purpose translated into robust financial 
performance during 2024-25. On a standalone basis, 
we closed the year with an AUM of ` 7,963 crore, a 23% 
increase year-on-year. Disbursements stood at ` 5,250 
crore, and operating profit (PPOP) grew by 23%. Notably, 
MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR 
AND EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN
Managing Director and Executive Vice Chairman’s Message
retail loans now account for ~98% of our total loan book, 
underlining our successful shift towards a diversified 
retail portfolio.
Our asset quality remains robust, with Gross Stage 3 
assets improving to 4.52% in 2024-25 from 4.97% in 
2023-24. 
On the funding side, we successfully raised over 
` 5,357 crore across the year at notably lower rates, 
with incremental Q4 borrowing at 9.6% p.a. During 
the year, we repaid ` 4,530 crore while raising ` 5,357 
crore, resulting in an overall cost of funds of ~10.8%. 
Debt-to-equity remains around 2x, providing ample 
room for future expansion. These measures, combined 
with stable operating expenses and growing AUM and 
interest income, set the stage for stronger profitability 
in the upcoming quarters.
With a capital adequacy ratio of 28.5% and a strong 
liquidity position, we are well-placed to invest in 
growth, technology, and customer service without 
compromising our financial discipline. These strengths 
give us the confidence to scale IndoStar into a stronger, 
more agile, and future-ready NBFC, capable of 
delivering value to all stakeholders year after year.
Building Operational Strength and Customer 
Centricity
Over the past year, we have worked diligently to 
strengthen operational efficiency and productivity. By 
investing in technology, streamlining processes, and 
building leaner operations, we have enabled faster 
decision-making, empowered our employees to perform 
at their best, and managed costs effectively. Our fully 
digital Loan Origination System, mobile-enabled field 
operations, and automated compliance and credit 
controls are now integral to the way we operate – 
making us more responsive, disciplined, and agile.
At the same time, our focus on the customer has 
guided every step of our growth. By reaching out to 
Tier 3–5 markets and catering to smaller-ticket, secured 
lending, we have scaled offerings across used CV 
financing, Micro Loan Against Property (Micro LAP), 
and diversified vehicle segments. Micro LAP, with its 
fully digital onboarding, has grown rapidly and delivered 
strong yields, while complementary solutions such 
as tyre financing strengthen the ecosystem for our 
transport customers.
These efforts reflect our vision of IndoStar as a 
multiproduct, retail-focussed NBFC, one that can deliver 
growth that is both profitable and sustainable. With a 
capital adequacy ratio of 28.5% and strong liquidity, 
we are confident in our ability to continue investing 
in growth, technology, and customer service, while 
remaining disciplined in every decision we make.
Sharpening Our Focus
As part of our ongoing transformation, we have taken 
decisive steps to exit non-core and legacy businesses 
that no longer align with our strategic priorities. A 
significant milestone was the approved sale of our 
subsidiary, IndoStar Home Finance (now Niwas Housing 
Finance), for ` 1,750 crore to Witkopeend BV, affiliated 
with BPEA EQT. This strategic divestment unlocked 
substantial capital and operational bandwidth, allowing 
us to redeploy resources into high-priority areas. 
Further, we are progressively exiting our existing 
Corporate and SME loan, freeing up capital and 
management focus to accelerate growth in retail 
segments that offer superior risk-adjusted returns and 
deeper customer engagement. This disciplined approach 
reduces complexity, streamlines operations, and positions 
IndoStar for sustainable, scalable, high-quality growth.
Transitioning to Comprehensive Vehicle 
Finance and Scaling Micro LAP
Commercial Vehicle (CV) finance remains the backbone 
of our portfolio, accounting for AUM worth ` 7,401 
crore out of ` 7,963 crore as of March 31, 2025. Retail 
disbursements were dominated by used CV loans, 
reflecting strong demand from rural and semi-urban 
markets for smaller-ticket, high-yield financing. 
We are strategically evolving from a pure CV lending 
provider to a comprehensive Vehicle Financer. This 
includes expanding into new vehicle segments 
including cars, pickups, tractors, farm equipment, small 
commercial vehicle along with construction equipment, 
bus, thereby creating a holistic ecosystem for our 
transport customers. Our deep presence in 23 states, 
strong customer relationships, and granular, secured 
lending approach form the bedrock of this model, with 
supportive market tailwinds such as vehicle scrappage 
policies, rising new vehicle prices, and certified pre-
owned programmes.
Alongside Vehicle Finance, our new business Micro 
Loan Against Property (Micro LAP) is progressing 
well. Launched across 62 existing branches, mainly in 
Tamil Nadu, Micro LAP uses 100% digital, paperless 
onboarding, enabling low marginal costs and rapid scale-
up. By March 31, 2025, its AUM exceeded ` 50 crore, with 
an ambitious goal to touch ` 300 crore by March 2026.
Operating Landscape: Strength in Macro, 
Nuance in Sectoral Dynamics
This momentum was achieved in a dynamic 
macroeconomic environment. India’s economy grew by 
6.5%, underpinned by robust domestic consumption, 
infrastructure investment, and rising formalisation. 
NBFCs outpaced banks in credit growth by focussing 
on secured, retail-centric lending while enhancing asset 
quality, digital adoption, and product diversity.
Sector-specific trends propelled our strategy. The Indian 
vehicle industry is witnessing a dynamic transformation 
driven by multiple growth levers. Infrastructure-led 
initiatives such as Bharatmala, PM Gati Shakti, and 
Sagarmala are enhancing road and port connectivity, 
fuelling both freight and passenger transport demand. 
Policy measures, including green mobility incentives, 
rural subsidies, and vehicle scrappage schemes, are 
accelerating fleet renewal across segments. Rising 
urbanisation and higher disposable incomes are 
sustaining mobility demand, while the shift towards 
alternative fuels and cleaner technologies, such as EVs, 
CNG, LNG, and hybrid vehicles, is opening new product 
and financing opportunities. Simultaneously, the 
formalisation of the used vehicle market and the growth 
of a digitised financing ecosystem, leveraging e-KYC 
and automated credit scoring, are expanding credit 
access and improving efficiency, particularly for small-
ticket and used vehicle loans. 
Complementing this is the growing Micro Loan Against 
Property (Micro LAP) segment, where NBFCs hold 
over 45% market share and industry CAGR has been 
nearly 39% in recent years. Strong in underserved Tier 3 
and Tier 4 markets, Micro LAP offers scalable, secured 
growth with manageable credit costs. Industry AUM is 
expected to rise ~25% annually over the next two years, 
even with some margin moderation.
While challenges such as higher interest rates and 
freight volatility persist, the medium- to long-term 
outlook is positive for lenders with diversified portfolios, 
strong underwriting, and a focus on used CVs, small-
ticket vehicle loans, and farm mechanisation finance.
A Clear Path Ahead: 2025-26 and Beyond
With these evolving dynamics shaping the broader 
lending landscape, we enter 2025–26 with clarity 
and confidence, anchored in core segments like 
vehicle finance and Micro LAP, supported by a strong 
capital base and operating leverage. We will prioritise 
profitability through disciplined execution, sharper cost 
control, and prudent credit practices. 
Closing Thoughts: Building a Momentum that 
Sustains
This year has been about embedding systems, 
developing talent, and aligning purpose. As our flywheel 
turns faster, every rotation adds strength, and every 
success feeds into the next. We now move forward 
with a sharper focus, a leaner model, and the energy 
of a team that is aligned to a common goal: delivering 
consistent, profitable, and responsible growth.
Thank you once again for your continued belief in our 
vision. The journey ahead is exciting, and I look forward 
to sharing many more milestones with you.
With sincere appreciation,
Randhir Singh
Managing Director and Executive Vice Chairman
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
39
Annual Report 2024-25
38
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Culture and Employee 
Experience
Ensuring Talent 
Development
Workforce 
Expansion and 
Resource Alignment
Talent Management 
and Retention Focus
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited continues to strengthen its human capital in line 
with its retail-led expansion. The Company’s people strategy focusses on efficient 
workforce deployment, tech-driven productivity, and long-term talent retention 
ensuring operational readiness across a growing physical footprint.
ENABLING GROWTH THROUGH 
WORKFORCE EXCELLENCE
HR Initiatives
A culture of collaboration, inclusivity, and high performance is deeply embedded in the Company’s policies, 
people practices, and daily interactions. 
Investments continue in high-impact roles across 
new products like Micro LAP. Attrition remains 
manageable, with focus on retention in competitive 
functions and continuity in core credit and risk 
teams. A seasoned leadership team anchors the 
transformation.
	Attrition Management: Annualised attrition rate 
for 2024-25 was 36%, primarily driven by front-
line workforce attrition influenced by regional 
competitive intensity and performance alignment 
measures
	Performance management: Tighter processes 
such as Performance Improvement Plans (PIPs) 
are implemented to enhance accountability
	Stability in Risk Functions: Low attrition in credit 
and collections roles ensures process integrity
	Leadership Strength: Senior management team 
comprises seasoned professionals with deep BFSI 
experience, guiding transformation efforts and 
operational scale
The Company implemented several specialised 
learning and development initiatives to enhance 
the skills and leadership potential of teams across 
various levels:
	Lead Next Programme: A flagship leadership 
development initiative aimed at accelerating 
leadership capabilities at regional and zonal 
levels. The programme focussed on execution 
excellence, growth mindset, impactful leadership, 
and corporate governance. During  
2024-25, approximately 75–76 senior employees 
participated across three batches, engaging in 
case studies and research-backed content.
	Sales Yodha Programme: Targeted at branch 
heads and sales teams, this programme equipped 
around 342 employees with essential skills to 
excel in today’s competitive landscape. The 
curriculum covered communication with dignity, 
accountability, emotional connection, conflict 
management, and performance reviews.
	Area Yodha and Credit Yodha: Targeted 
interventions for area-level and credit teams 
to boost operational effectiveness and domain 
expertise.
With increasing presence in Tier 3 to Tier 5 locations, 
IndoStar has scaled up its workforce to support 
deeper market access. Branches are staffed based 
on potential and business mix, ensuring optimal 
resourcing across micro-branches and emerging 
verticals.
	Total Workforce: Increased to 4,437 employees 
as of March 31, 2025, up from 3,213 in March 31, 
2024
	Resource Allocation: Manpower deployment 
guided by branch-level business potential and 
strategic priorities
Building 
Capabilities
Learning 
and people 
development 
programmes 
Engagement 
Regular employee 
connect 
programmes and 
celebrating wins 
together
Employee 
wellness
Ensuring holistic 
wellness, provision of 
health and accident 
insurance, parental 
leave and benefits, 
health checkups 
and mental health 
programmes 
Performance-
linked 
Rewards and 
Recognitions 
Total rewards 
strategy, promoting 
meritocracy, career 
development and 
supporting business 
strategies
Alongside these, foundational training programmes 
were delivered through the Company’s Learning 
Management System (LMS), including compliance, 
cybersecurity, KYC, POSH, and Excel training to 
ensure policy adherence and digital literacy.
1
2
3
4
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
41
Annual Report 2024-25
40
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
A disciplined governance framework with Board oversight, defined committees, 
and data-led controls enables IndoStar to manage risks, maintain asset quality, 
and ensure consistent execution across its lending operations.
INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE AND 
RISK FRAMEWORK
Corporate Governance & Risk Management
Governance Framework
Committees
Compliance Framework
The Company has established a governance framework that balances regulatory obligations with board 
diversity and strategic oversight. It consists of executive, non-executive, and independent directors with 
sectoral expertise, complying with the limits laid out by the Companies Act, SEBI, and RBI. Directors undergo 
regular familiarisation programmes covering the business and regulatory landscape.
To ensure focussed oversight and streamlined decision-making, the Board has constituted dedicated 
committees with defined responsibilities aligned to regulatory and operational priorities.
ICFL has built a structured 
compliance framework 
that ensures alignment 
with regulatory norms and 
internal policies. It integrates 
ethical standards, monitoring 
systems, and data-led controls 
to promote transparency, 
manage risks proactively, 
and strengthen operational 
resilience. This framework 
enables timely decision-
making, reduces exposure 
to financial and regulatory 
risks, and supports long-term 
governance objectives.
The Company follows a comprehensive compliance architecture to 
ensure legal and regulatory alignment.
 
	Fit & Proper Criteria for appointment of directors and senior 
leadership
	 Insider Trading Code for pre-clearance and monitoring of trades
	 Related Party Transactions Policy to ensure arm’s length fairness
	 Whistle-Blower Policy providing safe reporting channels
	 Dividend, Remuneration, and Board Evaluation Policies aligned 
with regulatory and performance-based standards
Key Policies and Practices
Audit  
Committee
Oversees financial reporting, 
auditor recommendations, 
internal controls, and the whistle-
blower mechanism
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
Addresses investor and 
shareholder grievances and 
monitors share transfers
Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
Handles director appointments, 
board evaluations, succession 
planning, and compensation 
structure
Other Key  
Committees
ALCO, Credit Committee, IT Strategy Committee, Customer Services 
Committee, and Internal Complaints Committee, all ensuring operational 
discipline and regulatory compliance
Risk Management 
Committee
Monitors credit, market, and 
operational risks and meets 
regularly with the Chief Risk 
Officer
The Board and Management remain jointly accountable for ensuring effective controls and timely financial 
reporting.
Risk Assessment & Management
Risk oversight is embedded into the Company’s operations through a structured framework that identifies, 
evaluates, and mitigates key financial, operational, and compliance risks.
Credit Risk 
Managed 
through rigorous 
underwriting, 
portfolio 
monitoring, and 
ECL provisioning
Fraud & 
Cybersecurity 
Risk 
Tackled through a 
Risk Control Unit, 
DLP tools, SOC 
monitoring, and 
recovery planning
Liquidity Risk  
Controlled by active 
ALM practices and 
maintaining liquidity 
contingency buffers
Regulatory & 
Compliance Risk 
Mitigated via internal 
audits, IT-led controls, and a 
proactive policy environment
Operational 
Risk
Addressed 
through defined 
processes, audits, 
and staff training
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
43
Annual Report 2024-25
Annual Report 2024-25
42
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ESTEEMED BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board of Directors and KMPs
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy is 
the Chairperson and Non-
Executive Independent Director 
of IndoStar. She is a seasoned 
corporate lawyer and the 
Founding Partner of K Law, a 
leading full-service law firm 
in India. She began her career 
with Arthur Anderson and later 
served as in-house counsel at 
Biocon.
With over 29 years of 
experience, Ms. Murthy 
specialises in corporate 
commercial law, focussing on 
mergers and acquisitions, joint 
ventures, collaborations, and 
private equity & venture capital 
investments.
Ms. Murthy is a trusted legal 
advisor who represents 
eminent clients, both Indian and 
international, in their operations 
within India and globally. 
She serves on the board of 
Sustainable Energy Infra 
Investment Managers Pvt. 
Ltd., Investment Manager to 
Sustainable Energy Infra Trust 
(‘SEIT IM’).
Ms. Murthy also holds board 
directorships as an Independent 
Director in various companies, 
including Sterling and Wilson 
Renewable Energy Ltd., Den 
Networks Limited, IndoStar 
Capital Finance Limited, 
Indostar Home Finance Private 
Limited and Bandhan Mutual 
Fund Trustee Limited.
She serves as Vice Chair 
(Membership) for the 
South Asia/Oceania & India 
Committee at the American Bar 
Association (ABA).
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy 
Mr. Bobby Parikh is the Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of IndoStar 
Capital Finance Limited. He has 
nearly three decades of experience 
in financial services industry/
reorganisations. Mr. Parikh’s area of 
focus is providing tax and regulatory 
advice in relation to transactions and 
other forms of business  
re-organisations. He has founded 
Bobby Parikh Associates, a boutique 
firm focussed on providing strategic 
tax and regulatory advisory services. 
Mr. Parikh is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant from the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India and 
holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree 
from the University of Mumbai.
Mr. Bobby Parikh 
Mr. Hemant Kaul is a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of IndoStar. He has vast 
experience as an independent management 
consultant, having worked with private equity 
firms to evaluate investments in the financial 
sector. Earlier, Mr. Kaul has also been the MD & 
CEO of Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co Ltd. 
and the Executive Director of Axis Bank. Mr. 
Kaul holds a Bachelor’s degree in Science and 
a Master’s degree in Business Administration 
from Rajasthan University.
Mr. Hemant Kaul
Mr. Devdutt Marathe is a Non-
Executive Non-Independent 
Director of IndoStar. He is an 
investment professional with 
over 15 years of experience 
in the Private Equity space. 
He is currently a Senior VP at 
Brookfield Asset Management 
focussed on the Private Equity 
business in the India and Middle 
East region. Previously, he was 
a Principal at Apax Partners, 
where he led or participated 
in several transactions across 
financial services, healthcare 
and technology sectors. 
Devdutt Marathe holds B.Tech. 
and MS degrees in Electrical 
Engineering from IIT Madras 
and Caltech (USA) respectively, 
and a PGDM from IIM 
Ahmedabad.
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Mr. Randhir Singh 
Mr. Randhir Singh is 
the Managing Director 
designated as Vice Executive 
Chairman. He is a seasoned 
financial leader with 
30+ years of experience 
in MSME/Corporate/
FIG Lending, Structured 
Finance, Debt Capital 
Markets, Treasury, Sales and 
Trading, FX and Interest 
Rate derivatives, Risk 
Management and Banking 
Operations. Randhir started 
his career with Citibank 
India in 1995 and worked 
there till 2007 in various 
roles. He then worked at 
Deutsche Bank as Managing 
Director and India Head of 
Financing between 2007 
and 2016. He subsequently 
worked in Edelweiss as CEO 
of Commercial Lending & 
Structured Finance from 
2016 to 2018. Prior to joining 
IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited, Randhir was Jt. CEO 
and Co-Founder of APAC 
Financial Services from 2018 
to 2024.
Mr. Vishal Goenka is a Non–Executive 
Non-Independent Director of 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited. He 
is a Managing Director at Everstone 
Capital, focussing on investments 
in industrials and financial services 
businesses. Based in Mumbai and has 
over 15 years of investing and banking 
experience across sectors. Previously, 
he has worked with Warburg Pincus 
in their India business and J.P. Morgan 
in their IB business. He holds a post-
graduate degree in management from 
IIM Indore (Institute Gold Medalist) 
and an engineering degree from 
University of Mumbai. He holds MBA 
from Symbiosis Institute of Business 
Management and Bachelor of 
Management Studies degree from the 
University of Mumbai.
Mr. Vishal Goenka
Mr. Aditya Joshi is a Non-
Executive Non-Independent 
Director of IndoStar. Mr. Joshi is 
the Head of India for Brookfield 
Asset Management, overseeing 
business activities in the region. 
He also serves as a Managing 
Partner in Brookfield’s Private 
Equity Group. In this role, 
he leads the private equity 
strategy in India and the Middle 
East and is responsible for 
deal sourcing and execution, 
as well as portfolio monitoring. 
Prior to joining Brookfield in 
2019, Mr. Joshi was a Principal 
at Apax Partners where he 
was involved in deals in the 
healthcare, technology services 
and financial services sectors. 
Before this, he worked at 
Blackstone covering technology 
and business services, and at 
JM Morgan Stanley, working 
on fundraising and mergers 
and acquisitions across 
various industries. Mr. Joshi 
holds a Master of Business 
Administration degree from 
The Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania, 
and a Bachelor’s degree from 
the University of Pune. He is 
a Chartered Accountant, a 
member of The Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of 
India, and a member of FICCI’s 
National Committee on Private 
Equity for India.
Mr. Aditya Joshi 
Ms. Sujatha Mohan is a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited. Ms. Sujatha Mohan has over 
30 years of experience across the Banking 
and IT industries. Ms. Mohan, a Wharton 
Alumnus, is the founder of Pharus Consulting 
LLP, a firm that supports organisations in the 
BFSI sector by offering a practitioner’s view 
of digital, business and execution strategies. 
She has been recognised for leading strategic 
and transformative initiatives across different 
organisations. Prior to this, Ms. Mohan was 
associated with HDFC Bank Limited, FIS 
Global, RBL Bank Limited, Oracle Financial 
Software Services Ltd, ANZ Grindlays Bank 
and Stock Holding Corporation of India 
Limited where she held various leadership 
roles. Her areas of specialisation include Core 
Banking, Core Modernisation, API Strategy, 
Digital Transformation & Payments. Over her 
30-year career, she has received numerous 
awards and recognitions including the Asian 
Banker Award (twice) for 2 projects executed 
under her leadership. She was also the 
recipient of the Payments Award by the Indian 
Banking Association for projects executed 
under her mentorship and the Women in 
Fintech Award in 2019 by Fintegrate Zone.
Ms. Sujatha Mohan
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
45
Annual Report 2024-25
44
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
HONOURS THAT REFLECT ICFL’S JOURNEY
Awards & Accolades
Best Leadership 
Development Initiative
Acknowledged by Banking Frontiers for our 
robust programmes that nurture and empower 
the next generation of leaders
India’s Best Companies for 
Employee Well-being 2023
Honoured by World HRD Congress for our 
commitment to holistic employee wellness and 
creating a supportive work environment
Best Collections 
Initiative
Recognised by Banking Frontiers for 
our innovative and effective strategies 
in collections excellence
Happiness and Wellness Award 
2024 – ‘Happy Place to Work’
Celebrated by Happy Plus for cultivating a 
workplace where happiness, well-being, and 
engagement thrive
ET Progressive Places to 
Work 2023
Recognised by ET Now for fostering an 
innovative and empowering workplace culture 
that inspires growth and collaboration
MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSION 
AND ANALYSIS
Global Economy
Global economic growth has been showing a steady decline since 2022 
and this continued through 2024-25, driven by a mix of geopolitical 
uncertainty around evolving trade policies and continued supply 
chain disruptions due to conflicts that have affected the global energy 
markets since the start of the Russia–Ukraine war in 2022. Despite 
these headwinds, global GDP grew 2.8% in 2024, similar to 2023, 
and is expected to moderate further to 2.3% in 2025, owing to trade 
disruptions due to the impositions of high tariffs on trade partners 
by the United States (US) government. The Russia-Ukraine war, now 
in its third year, continues to disrupt energy flows and commodity 
markets in Europe. The Israel-Hamas conflict has escalated tensions 
in the Middle East, raising concerns over supply chains, oil prices, and 
regional stability. Renewed tariff measures, particularly from the US, 
have escalated trade tensions. Retaliatory actions have deepened the 
divide, further weakening global trade.
In the US, growth for 2025 is projected at 1.4%, as higher tariff-related 
input costs take a toll on consumption and manufacturing activity. 
The Federal Reserve reduced the interest rates in three rate cuts 
aggregating 100 bps from 5.25%-5.50% level in September 2024 to 
4.25%-4.50% level in December 2024, as inflation broadly remained 
below the 3% mark. The Fed has indicated it may pursue further 
rate cuts through 2025, if the labour market softens. In the Euro 
Area, economic performance remains fragile with growth revised 
downward to 0.7% for 2025, due to weak demand and continued 
uncertainty around energy supply and pricing. 
Growth in emerging markets and developing economies 
(EMDEs) is also showing signs of slowing momentum. In 
countries like China, the growth is expected to moderate at 
4.5% in 2025, reflecting internal structural adjustments, weak 
global demand, and risks of deflation. For India, the growth 
outlook is relatively more stable at 6.3% in 2025, bouyed by a 
strong monsoon, spurring private consumption, particularly 
in rural areas. 
(Sources: World Economic Outlook Update by IMF, July 2025; Global 
Economic Prospects, World Bank, June 2025)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
47
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
46
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Indian Economy GDP Growth Rate (in %)
2025-26
6.51
2024-25
6.5*
2023-24
8.2
(Source: Ministry of Statistics and Programme 
Implementation, PIB)
*Estimated | 1Projected
Indian Economy
India continues to demonstrate robust economic 
performance amidst global uncertainty, reaffirming 
its position as one of the fastest-growing major 
economies. According to the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF), India’s provisional GDP growth stood 
at 6.5% in 2024-25 supported by strong domestic 
consumption especially in rural areas, sustained 
government capital expenditure, and steady private 
investment across core sectors. In a milestone 
achievement, India emerged as the world’s fourth-
largest economy in nominal GDP terms, crossing the 
USD 4 trillion threshold and overtaking Japan. 
The Reserve Bank of India has projected real GDP 
growth at 6.5% for 2025-26 as well, driven by 
buoyant rural demand, revival in urban consumption, 
an uptick in investment activity supported by above-
average capacity utilisation, and the government’s 
continued thrust on capital expenditure. The 
resilience of the economy is further underscored 
by high-frequency indicators pointing to steady 
services sector momentum, robust agricultural 
output aided by forecasts of an above-normal 
southwest monsoon, healthy GST collections, 
and congenial financial conditions. However, the 
recent US imposition of significant tariffs on several 
countries has impacted critical Indian industries 
such as steel, aluminium, and automobiles, adding 
pressure to the growth outlook.
(Sources: IMF Report on World Economic Outlook, April 2025; 
Article from The Hindu dated April 08, 2025)
India’s economic momentum continues to be 
supported by robust household spending, with 
private consumption rising to 61.4% of nominal GDP 
in 2024–25, up from 60.2% in 2023–24, representing 
From a monetary policy standpoint, the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) adopted an accommodative 
stance as inflationary pressures eased. Food price 
pressures declined due to a strong rabi harvest 
and effective buffer stock management. Headline 
inflation moderated to 3.16% in April 2025 and 
further fell to a six-year low of 2.8% in May 2025, 
remaining well within the RBI’s comfort zone. This 
downward trajectory paved the way for rate cuts 
that brought the repo rate down to 5.5% by June 
2025, creating a supportive environment that aided 
credit growth and improved business sentiment 
across industries.
(Sources: Financial Stability Report - June 2025, RBI; Mospi, May 
2025; Article from The Hindu dated August 06, 2025)
Further, the Government’s thrust on capital 
expenditure, allocating ` 11.11 lakh crore, or 3.4% 
of GDP, to infrastructure spending remained a 
strong pillar of growth, with continued investments 
in transport, digital infrastructure, and energy 
transition. The Production Linked Incentive (PLI) 
schemes across key sectors further bolstered the 
manufacturing ecosystem, while initiatives like PM 
Gati Shakti, ONDC, and the National Logistics Policy 
are reshaping India’s competitiveness. A critical 
the second-highest share in the past two decades. 
This increase was primarily driven by a 7.2% growth 
in private final consumption expenditure, a notable 
acceleration from 5.6% in the previous fiscal year, 
supported by a rebound in rural demand and 
improving consumer sentiment.
(Source: Article by The Economic Times dated June 28, 2025)
Real GDP Growth Projections (%)
Region/Country
Currency volatility, particularly movements in the 
USD, continues to disrupt global capital flows. 
Meanwhile, global headline inflation is projected to 
ease gradually from 4.2% in 2025 to 3.5% in 2026 
supported by advanced economies approaching 
inflation targets and easing price pressures in 
emerging markets. Central banks across key 
regions are pivoting towards accommodative 
policies, in helping improve credit availability and 
support investment sentiment over the medium 
term.
(Source: IMF Report on World Economic Outlook, April 2025)
(Source: World Economic Outlook by IMF, July 2025)
P: Projected
World Output
EMDEs
2026 (P)
2.4
2025 (P)
2.3
2024
2.8
2023
2.8
2022
3.3
2026 (P)
3.8
2025 (P)
3.8
2024
4.2
2023
4.4
2022
3.8
China
Advanced Economies
2026 (P)
1.4
2025 (P)
1.2
2024
1.7
2023
1.7
2022
2.9
2026 (P)
4.0
2025 (P)
4.5
2024
5.0
2023
5.4
2022
3.1
Euro Area
2026 (P)
0.8
2025 (P)
0.7
2024
0.9
2023
0.4
2022
3.5
United States
India
2026 (P)
1.6
2025 (P)
1.4
2024
2.8
2023
2.9
2022
2.5
2026 (P)
6.5
2025 (P)
6.3
2024
6.5
2023
9.2
2022
7.6
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
49
Annual Report 2024-25
48
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Growth Drivers for NBFC Industry
NBFCs have been playing a pivotal role in deepening 
financial inclusion by reaching segments traditionally 
underserved by the formal banking sector. Their 
agile operating models, localised reach, and 
flexible underwriting practices have enabled them 
to serve small businesses, first-time borrowers, 
rural populations, and informal income groups - 
effectively bridging the credit divide.
(Source: Article from SMFG India Credit dated January 30, 2025)
Government schemes like Startup India, MUDRA 
loans, and PLI are boosting credit demand from 
MSMEs, entrepreneurs, and the manufacturing 
sector. Initiatives such as the FAME-II policy and 
SWAMIH Fund are also creating new lending 
avenues. These policy measures are reinforcing the 
role of NBFCs in driving inclusive, sector-led growth.
(Sources: A Decade of Growth with PM Mudra Yojana, PIB; DPIIT, 
Ministry of Commerce And Industry, GoI)
Expanding Financial 
Inclusion
Policy Push for Entrepreneurship 
and Manufacturing
1
The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) 
sector, which contributes nearly 30% to India’s GDP 
and employs over 25 crore people, continues to face 
a significant credit gap. With a credit addressable 
market estimated at ` 92 lakh crore, NBFCs have 
a vital role to play in meeting this growing and 
underpenetrated demand. Their ability to offer 
tailored financing solutions positions them as 
preferred partners for MSME growth.
(Source: Understanding the Indian MSME Sector, SIDBI, May 2025)
Credit Demand from the 
MSME Sector
2
3
From a policy standpoint, regulatory actions 
underway are expected to temporarily influence 
growth trajectories but are ultimately designed 
to fortify long-term sectoral stability. Most NBFCs 
are well-positioned to absorb transitional impacts, 
backed by prudent capital buffers, RBI mandated 
liquidity risk management and resilient earnings. The 
enhanced regulatory framework is also promoting 
better governance and risk alignment, laying a 
stronger foundation for sustainable expansion.
On the funding side, the outlook remains 
constructive. Moderate credit growth projections, 
combined with reduced reliance on short-term 
borrowings, have ensured adequate sector liquidity. 
Debt issuances have improved in  
2024-25 and are projected to remain active, 
supported by expectations of interest rate easing. 
However, maintaining access to timely and 
appropriately priced funding will be important, 
particularly as competitive intensity rises and exerts 
pressure on net interest margins.
Profitability metrics are adjusting to reflect the 
current environment. Credit costs are likely to rise, 
in line with elevated stress especially in unsecured 
lending. Consequently, return on average managed 
assets for non-housing NBFCs is expected to 
compress by 30–50 basis points over 2024-25 to 
2025-26 compared to 2023-24 levels. Meanwhile, 
housing finance entities continue to report steady 
performance, though the full implications of 
portfolio seasoning are yet to play out.
(Source: Article from The Economic Times dated April 24, 2025)
component of this transformational agenda is 
India’s strong intent to reduce logistics costs, 
which have historically been a significant 
barrier to export competitiveness and domestic 
manufacturing efficiency.
Non-Banking Financial Companies 
(NBFCs) Industry
The Indian financial sector demonstrated strength 
and resilience despite global headwinds. Both banks 
and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) 
enhanced their capital and liquidity positions while 
steadily improving asset quality. NBFCs, in particular, 
deepened their role in driving financial inclusion, 
recording nearly 20% credit growth, outpacing 
commercial banks, with net advances touching  
` 24.50 lakh crore. This expansion was supported by 
strong capital buffers and healthier credit quality. 
A supportive interest rate environment, aided by 
monetary policy easing, is expected to further 
stimulate credit demand in the period ahead.
Within the sector, credit growth of NBFCs in the 
Upper and Middle Layers accelerated to 20.7% (YoY) 
in March 2025, compared to 16.00% in September 
2024, though still below the level seen in September 
2023. However, credit expansion is expected to 
moderate to 13–15% in 2025–26. This shift reflects 
a maturing market cycle influenced by structural 
adjustments and refined lending strategies.
(Sources: Financial Stability Report - June 2025, RBI; Article from 
The Economic Times dated April 24, 2025)
The micro, small, and medium enterprises 
(MSMEs) also remain key players in supply 
chains, showing healthy expansion across 
various industries. Exports from MSMEs have 
seen substantial growth, rising from ` 3.95 
lakh crore in 2020-21 to ` 12.39 lakh crore in 
2024-25. MSMEs continue to drive innovation 
and contribute to the diversification of 
India’s manufacturing base, making them 
an essential part of the economy’s broader 
growth narrative. In line with this, the Union 
Budget 2025-26 had also introduced a series 
of measures aimed at strengthening the MSME 
sector by raising investment and turnover limits, 
enhancing credit access, supporting first-time 
entrepreneurs, and rolling out sector-specific 
productivity initiatives. 
With over 130 crore Aadhaar-linked mobile 
connections, UPI processing over ` 1,400 
crore transactions per month, India’s digital 
transformation continued to accelerate. The Jan 
Dhan Yojana added 5 crore new bank accounts 
in 2025, taking the total to 51 crore accounts, 
and reinforcing financial inclusion efforts. 
Digital transformation remains a key growth 
enabler for NBFCs as well, with the adoption 
of AI-driven credit assessments, digital lending 
platforms, and data-driven risk management 
significantly enhancing efficiency and customer 
accessibility. 
(Sources: Public Sector Banks: A Resurgent Force, Ministry 
of Finance, PIB; Digital Infrastructure in India, Ministry of 
Communications, PIB)
This recalibration has renewed the focus on asset 
quality, with rising stress observed in segments 
such as microfinance, credit cards, personal loans, 
and unsecured business loans, reflected in higher 
delinquencies and write-offs. Notably, unsecured 
business loans made up nearly 28% of retail NBFC 
exposure as of December 2024, highlighting the 
need for sharper portfolio risk assessment. In 
contrast, stress in secured segments remains limited, 
with asset classes like small-ticket vehicle finance 
and affordable housing loans continuing to exhibit 
relative stability.
Amid this shift, NBFCs are strengthening their 
risk frameworks to sustain credit health. A key 
consideration is the ability of borrowers, particularly 
in lower-income brackets, to refinance or service 
multiple obligations. This makes the performance of 
secured retail products a significant monitorable in 
the current environment.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
51
Annual Report 2024-25
50
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
The Indian tractor market, valued at USD 7.42 billion in 2023, is projected to grow at a CAGR of 6.7% to USD 11.68 
billion by 2032, driven by technology adoption, subsidy schemes, and increasing focus on sustainable, lower-
emission models.
The construction equipment market expanded strongly, driven by infrastructure programmes and technology 
integration. Valued at USD 10–14.3 billion in 2024, it recorded a 32% sales jump between H1 2022 and H1 2024, with 
exports nearly doubling. The market is projected to reach USD 29.5 billion by 2031-32 at a CAGR of 11.9%. Short-term 
growth was tempered by monsoons and election-related slowdowns, but demand for earthmoving equipment and 
sustainable electric/hybrid models continues to build momentum.
Looking ahead, the automotive, farm, and construction equipment industries are expected to sustain growth in 
2025-26, supported by stable macroeconomic conditions, government initiatives, and infrastructure investments. A 
normal monsoon, tax reforms, and lower interest rates should boost rural and semi-urban demand, while new model 
launches, EV adoption, and mechanisation will expand financing opportunities.
Vehicle and Equipment Finance AUM is projected to reach ~` 9.4 lakh crore by March 2026, reflecting 15–16% CAGR. 
While challenges such as tighter financing norms and global uncertainties remain, innovation and efficient capital 
deployment will be key to capturing growth.
Commercial Vehicles
Three-Wheelers
(Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM))
(Sources: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM); Article by Indian Infrastructure dated February 05, 2025; Article by Times of 
India dated December 03, 2024)
2023-24
2024-25
0.97
0.96
2022-23
0.96
2021-22
0.72
2023-24
2024-25
0.69
0.74
2022-23
0.49
2021-22
0.26
Two-Wheelers
2023-24
2024-25
17.97
19.61
2022-23
15.86
2021-22
13.57
Total
2023-24
2024-25
23.85
25.61
2022-23
21.20
2021-22
17.62
NBFCs have been early adopters of digital 
technology, which has enhanced both reach and 
efficiency. Digital loan origination platforms, eKYC, 
automated credit scoring, and real-time disbursals 
have significantly improved customer experience 
and reduced operational costs. Technology has also 
enabled NBFCs to serve remote geographies with 
minimal physical infrastructure.
Digital channels like online lending platforms, 
mobile apps, and digital wallets have become 
popular among customers, especially the younger 
generation. NBFCs have been quick to adopt 
these digital channels, enabling them to offer 
a more personalised and convenient service to 
their customers. Further, NBFCs have also started 
using data analytics to gain insights into customer 
behaviour and preferences. This has enabled them 
to offer more personalised products and services to 
their customers.
(Source: Article from SMFG India Credit dated January 30, 2025;  
Article by Faster Capital dated April 02, 2025)
Unlike traditional banks, NBFCs have the flexibility 
to design niche products catering to specific 
borrower needs. Whether it is unsecured business 
loans for micro-entrepreneurs, gold loans for rural 
households, or consumer finance for semi-urban 
buyers, NBFCs have built domain expertise in 
various lending verticals that banks often find less 
viable.
(Source: Article from SMFG India Credit dated January 30, 2025)
Technology and Digital 
Transformation
Flexibility and 
Customisation
VEHICLE 
FINANCE 
INDUSTRY
The Indian Vehicle Financing Industry benefited 
from resilient demand across urban and rural 
markets in 2024-25, supported by the healthy 
performance of the Indian automobile and 
allied equipment sectors. Domestic automobile 
sales grew 7.3%, reflecting strong consumer 
sentiment and rising global interest in India as a 
manufacturing hub.
Passenger Vehicles (PV) touched a record 4.3 
million units, with Utility Vehicles contributing 
65% of the segment. Two-Wheelers rose 9.1% to 
19.6 million units, aided by rural recovery, while 
Three-Wheelers achieved their best-ever sales at 
0.74 million units on the back of last-mile mobility 
demand. Commercial Vehicles, despite a 1.2% 
overall decline, recovered towards year-end and 
posted 23% export growth. 
EV adoption accelerated, with total registrations 
rising 16.9% to 2.0 million units, supported by 
government schemes such as EMPS, PM E-Drive, 
and new model launches.
Vehicle Financing Industry
Domestic Sales Trends (in million units)
Passenger Vehicles
4
5
2023-24
2024-25
4.22
4.30
2022-23
3.89
2021-22
3.07
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
53
Annual Report 2024-25
52
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
With a recovery in infrastructure spending and 
potential improvement in freight activity post-
election, financing demand is expected to revive 
in the second half of 2025-26. Policy initiatives 
around vehicle scrappage, rural road development, 
and fleet modernisation could further stimulate the 
CV lending market in the medium term.
(Sources: Article by Business Standard dated December 28, 2023; 
Article by Financial Express dated April 11, 2025)
Vehicle Financing AUM Growth 
2025-261
14-16%
2024-25*
15-17%
2023-24
23%
(Source: Article by Financial Express dated April 11, 2025)
*Estimated | 1Projected
COMMERCIAL 
VEHICLES 
INDUSTRY 
India’s automobile sector recorded a 7.3% 
growth in domestic sales in 2024–25, 
reflecting improved consumer sentiment, a 
resilient rural economy, and post-pandemic 
normalisation in mobility demand. Within 
this, the Commercial Vehicle (CV) segment 
maintained a steady performance, with 
wholesale volumes at 9.57 lakh units, 
marginally lower than the 9.69 lakh units in 
2023–24. While this reflected a flat trajectory 
in headline terms, the underlying trends were 
marked by segmental shifts and strategic 
demand resilience, particularly in the second 
half of the year.
The Medium and Heavy Commercial 
Vehicle (M&HCV) segment held firm, 
driven by sustained replacement demand, 
improving freight movement, and an uptick 
in infrastructure activities post the general 
elections. The LCV (Light Commercial 
Vehicle) segment saw a slight moderation, 
with demand realignment across 0–7.5T 
sub-categories, influenced by evolving last-
mile logistics and consumption patterns. 
Despite this recalibration, LCV buses grew 
5.9%, reflecting rising rural and semi-urban 
connectivity needs.
A bright spot for the industry was CV exports, 
which grew 23.0% year-on-year, led by strong 
growth in MHCV Trucks (46.3%) and LCV 
Trucks (20.2%), as global markets witnessed 
economic recovery, easing inflationary 
pressures, and supportive monetary 
policies. This robust export performance 
underscored the competitiveness of India’s 
CV manufacturing base and its growing role 
in global logistics and infrastructure supply 
chains.
While 2024–25 reflected a period of transition, 
the Indian Commercial Vehicle sector remains 
structurally sound and well-aligned with the 
country’s broader growth narrative. With enablers 
such as electric and alternate-fuel adoption, 
regulatory support for scrappage and vehicle 
modernisation, and expanding road connectivity, 
the sector is gearing up to play a pivotal role 
in powering India’s economic momentum and 
evolving logistics ecosystem.
(Sources: ICRA Indian Commercial Vehicle Industry February 
2025; Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers)
Financing plays a critical enabling role in the CV 
ecosystem, particularly for small fleet owners, 
driver-entrepreneurs, and buyers in semi-urban 
and rural regions. NBFCs remain dominant 
players in this space, with a sizable share in new 
vehicle lending. The Vehicle Financing AUM have 
expanded strongly, rising from ` 5.9 lakh crore as 
on March 31, 2023, to an estimated ` 8.1 lakh crore 
by March 31, 2025, recording a robust CAGR of 
~17%.
According to CRISIL Ratings, vehicle finance AUM 
growth for NBFCs is expected to moderate to 
15–16% in 2025-26, down from over 20% in 2024-
25, reflecting a calibrated shift in underwriting 
and market consolidation.
As a result of the above, many NBFCs are 
increasingly deploying data-driven models 
for credit appraisal and adopting digital 
origination tools to enhance cost efficiency and 
improve customer onboarding, especially in 
underpenetrated regions. Meanwhile, asset quality 
remains a key focus area, with NBFCs enhancing 
collection infrastructure, tightening recovery 
mechanisms, and adjusting loan tenures to better 
align with operating cash flows of transport 
operators.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
55
Annual Report 2024-25
54
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
SME Financing and Micro Loan 
Against Property (LAP)
India’s SME lending ecosystem is undergoing a 
structural transformation, driven by increasing 
formalisation, digitalisation, and demand from 
underserved small businesses. NBFCs are playing a 
pivotal role, with their MSME loan books projected 
to grow from ` 4.2 lakh crore in 2024-25 to 
over ` 5.3 lakh crore by 2025-26. Their agility in 
underwriting, localised presence, and focus on 
underserved borrowers have helped bridge the 
sector’s vast credit gap. Enhanced asset quality, 
supported by better risk assessment and recovery 
mechanisms, and evolving co-lending partnerships 
with banks are further strengthening the ecosystem, 
even as NBFCs navigate margin compression and 
rising credit costs.
Within this broader landscape, Micro LAP has 
emerged as a fast-growing segment, offering 
secured credit to small borrowers, typically between 
` 1 lakh and ` 10 lakhs, against self-owned property. 
With high adoption in Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns, 
Micro LAP is leveraging real estate ownership to 
extend formal credit to informal-sector borrowers. 
NBFCs lead this space with over 45% market share, 
and have registered a 38.6% CAGR in Micro LAP 
between 2019-20 and 2023-24. While asset quality 
has seen improvement, with PAR 90+ (portfolio at 
risk over 90 days) declining gradually from 2022-23 
to 2024-25, this remains a key area of monitoring, 
especially as the segment caters to relatively 
informal borrowers.
Looking ahead, NBFCs are expected to continue 
growing their Micro LAP portfolios by 25% annually 
in 2024-25 and 2025-26, though some moderation 
in profitability is anticipated. Net Interest Margins 
(NIMs) are projected to reduce slightly from 12.8% in 
Insurance Industry 
With rising financial literacy and awareness 
around risk protection, India’s insurance sector 
is emerging as a vital part of the financial 
ecosystem. Participation is deepening across 
urban and rural markets, driven by digital 
access, simplified offerings, and proactive 
regulation. Even with exposure to climate-
related risks, insurers are strengthening 
their capabilities and focussing on resilient, 
customer-centric solutions.
Life insurance dominates with 74% of total 
premium volumes, led largely by investment-
linked products. Real premium growth for life 
is projected at 5% in 2025. Non-life insurance is 
expected to grow at 7.3%, supported by strong 
momentum in health and motor segments. 
Agricultural insurance is also gaining ground 
following recent policy reforms.
Improved household incomes, expanding 
formal employment, and greater risk awareness 
are key growth drivers. Insurers are broadening 
reach through digital platforms, regional 
agents, and targeted products, especially 
in semi-urban and rural areas. Health and 
protection-based offerings are seeing increased 
traction, supported by evolving customer 
preferences and enhanced distribution.
With strong fundamentals in place, the industry 
is poised for sustainable expansion backed 
by demographic shifts, urban development, 
and continued policy support. By maintaining 
a balanced approach to innovation and risk, 
insurers are well-positioned to deepen financial 
inclusion while building long-term resilience.
2024-25 to 12.6% in 2025-26, while credit costs may 
rise from 0.8% in 2023-24 to 1.0–1.1% over the next 
two years. Despite these pressures, the segment 
remains attractive due to its scalable business 
model, lower delinquency compared to unsecured 
lending, and high demand from underserved 
markets.
(Source: CareEdge Ratings Report dated May 14, 2025;  
Article by The Business Standard dated May 26, 2025)
gradually influencing buyer decisions, as operators 
weigh regulatory risks and depreciation linked to older 
diesel trucks. Additionally, organised spare part supply 
chains are improving uptime and operational reliability, 
especially critical in semi-urban and remote markets, 
enabling faster, more efficient fleet maintenance. 
Together, these developments are not only formalising 
the used CV ecosystem but also positioning it as a 
reliable, value-driven solution for India’s evolving 
mobility and logistics needs.
(Source: Article by The Business Standard dated July 11, 2025;  
India Used Truck Market, Imarc)
Trends in the CV Industry
There is a growing trend of financing used 
commercial vehicles, driven by increased adoption 
of scrappage policies, fleet replacement cycles, and 
demand from cost-sensitive buyer segments. With 
the rising cost of new CVs (due to BS-VI norms 
and feature additions), financing entities, especially 
NBFCs, are focussing more on refinancing and 
second-sale vehicles, offering structured loans with 
flexible tenures. This is also supported by OEM-led 
buyback programmes and organised used vehicle 
marketplaces.
Shift towards Used CV and Fleet 
Replacement Financing
The CV lending ecosystem is undergoing structural 
formalisation, as small fleet operators, driver-
entrepreneurs, and rural transporters become part 
of organised logistics chains. This is accelerating the 
adoption of digital origination, e-KYC, and data-
led underwriting models. Lenders are increasingly 
using telematics data, cash-flow-based appraisal, 
and embedded finance partnerships with logistics 
aggregators and vehicle OEMs to deepen credit 
penetration in Tier 2 and 3 towns.
Formalisation and Digitisation of 
Small Fleet Financing
Electrification remains a gradual but important trend 
in the commercial vehicle sector. EV penetration in 
the CV market grew from 0.8% in 2023-24 to 0.9% 
in 2024-25, with urban areas contributing over 50% 
of EV retail sales. This trend is reinforced by the 
increasing availability of green financing options - 
loans designed specifically for eco-friendly vehicles.
Banks and NBFCs are offering lower interest rates, 
flexible repayment schedules, and tax incentives on 
electric CVs. Combined with government subsidies, 
these financing models are removing barriers for 
companies aiming to shift to sustainable fleets, 
especially in urban logistics and last-mile delivery. 
As a result, businesses are reducing their carbon 
footprint while lowering operational expenses.
(Source: Article by The Banking Finance dated April 25, 2024)
Sustainable Vehicles and Green 
Financing Gain Ground
Used Vehicle Financing
Used vehicle finance is a growing sector that provides 
financial solutions to help consumers and businesses 
purchase pre-owned vehicles affordably. Driven by 
rising vehicle prices and demand for cost-effective 
mobility, especially in India, financing options from 
banks, NBFCs, and digital platforms are expanding 
rapidly. Innovations in digital lending and risk 
assessment are increasing access to used vehicle 
loans, supporting both individuals and fleet operators. 
This sector also promotes sustainability by extending 
vehicle lifespans and boosting economic activity 
through improved transport and logistics.
In India, the used car market is witnessing a significant 
upswing, with sales projected to grow by 8–10% in 
2025-26, outpacing new car sales by more than double. 
The volume of used car sales is expected to surpass 6 
million units, reflecting growing consumer preference 
for affordability and faster access to vehicles. The ratio 
of used-to-new car sales has risen to 1.4 from less than 1 
just five years ago, signalling a shift driven by enhanced 
digital platforms, increasing financing options, and 
evolving buyer behaviour. The market value of used 
cars has reached approximately ` 4 trillion, almost 
matching new car sales.
India’s used vehicle industry is undergoing a significant 
transformation, driven by the dual forces of cost-
efficiency and rising logistics demand. This steady 
growth trajectory reflects a wider shift in India’s 
transport ecosystem, where fleet operators, logistics 
providers, and small enterprises are increasingly 
favouring pre-owned vehicles to manage operational 
costs while meeting delivery requirements. Additionally, 
the extension of Bharat Stage VI (BS-VI) emission 
norms has raised acquisition and compliance costs for 
new vehicles, indirectly creating stronger demand for 
used CVs as a more economical alternative.
The used CV segment continues to outperform, driven 
by affordability and strong resale demand. Many NBFCs 
have sharpened their focus on this segment, leveraging 
local sourcing networks and field-level reach to cater 
to rural and semi-urban buyers. North India leads with 
over 35% of market share, supported by dense freight 
corridors and high agricultural and industrial output. 
Light trucks dominate segmental demand, accounting 
for 45.7% of sales in 2024, primarily due to their 
suitability for last-mile delivery and intra-city logistics.
The transition towards digital platforms is further 
supporting this shift, streamlining inspections, 
documentation, and loan processing while promoting 
pricing transparency and broader inventory access. 
Emerging trends such as trials of cleaner fuel CVs are 
1
2
3
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
57
Annual Report 2024-25
56
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Business Segment-Wise AUM – as on March 31, 2025
Share in AUM – By Accounts Type (in %)
Corporate Lending
Retail Lending
2017-18
2024-25
74%
26%
2%
98%
Business Segment (AUM in ` crore)
Vehicle 
Finance
SME Finance
Corporate Lending/
Others
Micro LAP
7,401 
(93%)
353 
(4%)
156 
(2%)
52 
(1%)
Insurance Premiums Growth (in %)
(F: Forecasted) 
(Source: Report by Swiss Re Institute dated January 14, 2025)
COMPANY OVERVIEW 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (also referred to as 
‘IndoStar’ or ‘the Company’) is a middle-layer NBFC. 
The Company operates across 23 states through 
446 branches. The Company’s product portfolio 
spans Vehicle Finance including Commercial 
Vehicle Finance, Car and MUV financing, Farm 
and Construction Equipment Loans, SME loans 
and Micro LAP. The Company is also engaged in 
composite insurance distribution services. 
The Company’s strong institutional foundation 
is anchored by Brookfield, holding 56.20%, and 
Everstone Group with 17.09% as of March 31, 2025. 
IndoStar serves a diverse customer base across 
underserved markets, including small transport 
operators, self-employed professionals, traders, and 
first-time credit users. With a focus on disciplined 
lending, product diversification, and expanding 
distribution, IndoStar continues to build scale while 
ensuring financial prudence and inclusive access to 
credit.
Expansion of Services
To become a truly diversified retail NBFC, IndoStar 
successfully launched a Micro LAP business in 
April 2025. This segment targets micro enterprises 
with average ticket sizes below ` 6 lakh, yields 
around 22%, and predominantly uses self-occupied 
residential property as collateral. The Micro LAP 
business operates on a 100% direct origination 
model with a local team and full digital integration. 
While currently a small percentage of total AUM, it is 
a key area for future growth. 
IndoStar has also registered itself as a composite 
corporate agent, having tie-ups with both General 
and Life Insurance Companies. IndoStar provides its 
customers with Motor, Life and Accidental Insurance 
as an additional service to enrich its primary lending 
offering.
Reach across
States 
23
Branches 
446
2024 F
4.8
2024 F
5.7
2025 F
5.0
2025 F
7.3
2023
0.7
2023
5.6
2022
5.9
2022
9
2021
4.4
2021
5.1
2020
3.4
2020
(1.1)
Total Life Insurance Premium
Total Non-Life Insurance Premium
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
59
Annual Report 2024-25
58
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
SME Finance
SME Finance Segment Performance 
AUM (in ` crore)
2024-25
353
2023-24
485
	 Digital Origination Platforms: 
The Company implemented 
automated loan onboarding tools, 
enabling wider outreach and 
timely approvals in remote areas.
	 Geographic Expansion: IndoStar 
continued to add new locations 
in Tier 3 and Tier 4 towns, 
supporting growth in underserved 
markets.
	 Product Development: Efforts 
were made to introduce additional 
offerings such as tyre financing 
and small ticket LAP to address 
working capital needs and 
improve customer engagement.
	 Portfolio Monitoring: Analytical 
tools were deployed for early-
stage risk identification and 
tracking repayment behaviour.
	 Distribution Network: The 
Company expanded its branch 
network by adding 54 locations 
during 2024-25, supporting 
business volumes and customer 
servicing.
Key Initiatives
Outlook 
The vehicle financing business is 
expected to remain a key focus 
area in the coming years. IndoStar 
aims to further expand its reach, 
improve process efficiencies, 
and introduce supplementary 
products to increase loan volumes. 
Continued attention to borrower 
selection, ticket size calibration, 
and technology integration is 
expected to support steady 
portfolio growth. With a larger 
share of the business now coming 
from used vehicles and deeper 
presence in smaller towns, the 
Company is positioned to capture 
emerging opportunities in this 
segment.
IndoStar’s SME Finance segment historically offered secured 
small business loans to micro and small enterprises, primarily 
for working capital needs. These loans were typically backed 
by property collateral and catered to borrowers in semi-urban 
and peri-urban geographies with limited access to formal 
credit. However, since 2023-24, the Company significantly 
scaled down this legacy business as part of its broader 
retailisation strategy, focussing instead on high-yield retail 
secured products.
The Company has discontinued new originations in this 
segment, while focussing efforts on resolving its existing SME 
book much of which is already provisioned. This realignment 
is a key part of IndoStar’s transition towards becoming a 
focussed retail NBFC.
Outlook 
The SME Finance segment played a minimal role in IndoStar’s 
growth during 2024-25, as the Company continued 
executing its exit strategy from legacy exposures. No 
incremental originations, a declining AUM share, and focussed 
provisioning reflect IndoStar’s clear intent to prioritise 
scalable and high yield secured retail products. This transition 
enables more efficient capital allocation and supports the 
Company’s positioning as a retail-focussed NBFC.
	 Reduction of Non-Core SME Exposure: The SME Finance 
portfolio was consciously reduced, with AUM dropping to  
` 353 crore by 2024-25, now forming only 3% of total AUM
	 Provisioning and Resolution Strategy: The old SME 
book, amounting to ` 211 crore, has been substantially 
provided for ~60%. Recovery and settlement processes are 
underway, with expectations of gradual resolution over the 
next two years
	 Curtailment of Fresh Disbursements: No new 
disbursements were made, indicating the near-complete 
winding down of legacy SME lending activity
Key Initiatives
Vehicle Finance
AUM 
` 7,401 CRORE
Average Ticket Size
` 6.7 LAKHS 
Presence
23 STATES
Vehicle Finance Segment Performance 
AUM (in ` crore)
2024-25
7,401 
2023-24
5,594 
In 2024-25, IndoStar continued to expand its operations in the Vehicle Financing segment, which remains a major 
component of its retail lending portfolio. The vehicle industry contributes significantly to India’s logistics and 
employment landscape, and IndoStar’s financing activity in this space aligns with the demand from self-employed 
and small fleet operators. While domestic CV sales witnessed moderation due to market uncertainties and delays in 
financing cycles, the Company sustained growth in its loan book during the year. A focussed shift towards financing 
used vehicles and small commercial vehicles and pickups helped address consumption-led demand and improve 
collection efficiencies, particularly in rural markets.
Used Vehicle Segment Overview
The used vehicle segment accounted for the majority of the Company’s disbursements throughout 2024-25. IndoStar 
has built its position in this market through its knowledge of vehicle resale dynamics and borrower profiles. Consistent 
focus on this category helped the Company meet the credit requirements of a broad customer base, particularly in 
semi-urban and rural regions. The demand for pre-owned vehicles remained steady due to pricing gaps between BS-
IV and BS-VI models, availability of longer-tenure financing, and overall affordability. The Company’s credit evaluation 
framework and revised underwriting standards contributed to maintaining asset quality while scaling volumes.
For 2024-25
Loan Amount-Wise Distribution
16,365 
(21%)
23,225 
(30%)
20,867 
(27%)
52 
(21%)
Cumulative as on March 31, 2025
37,298 
(23%)
42,572 
(26%)
44,027 
(27%)
39,370 
(24%)
 Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratio-Wise Distribution
Cumulative as on March 31, 2025
38,324 
(50%)
14,407 
(19%)
12,620 
(16%)
11,480 
(15%)
33,473 
(21%)
For 2024-25
79,145 
(48%)
25,590 
(16%)
25,059 
(15%)
Up to 3 lakhs
Up to 75
>5 lacs to 10 lakhs
81 to 85
>3 lacs to 5 lakhs
76 to 80
>10 lakhs
>85
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
61
Annual Report 2024-25
60
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Corporate Lending 
Niwas Housing Finance 
The corporate lending segment at IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited has been significantly scaled down 
in alignment with the Company’s retail-focussed 
strategy. As of 2024-25, it contributes just 2% to the 
total AUM, compared to 6% in 2023-24. This sharp 
decline reflects the Company’s deliberate exit from 
large-ticket corporate exposures, which previously 
formed a major part of its loan book. 
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (‘NHFPL’), 
formerly, IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited, 
was a wholly owned subsidiary of IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited, offering home loans to self-
employed and salaried individuals and also provides 
LAPs. With the sale of 100% shareholding of the 
Company in NHFPL, NHFPL ceased to be the 
subsidiary of the Company with effect from  
July 17, 2025.  
Looking ahead, IndoStar does not intend to 
originate any new corporate loans. With recovery 
processes progressing as planned, the segment is 
positioned to be phased out completely, further 
solidifying IndoStar’s transformation into a retail-
focussed NBFC.
The Micro LAP business was launched through 
IndoStar’s existing vehicle finance branch 
network, initially piloted in Tamil Nadu. This 
branch-sharing strategy optimises operational 
costs while expanding market reach. The 
Company enabled a fully digital loan journey 
from origination to servicing, with API 
integrations and no major incremental tech 
investment. A dedicated on-ground team of 
over 300 people has been deployed by March 
2025, for origination and customer servicing, 
ensuring direct engagement and credit quality 
control.
Key Initiatives
Outlook 
The early traction of the Micro LAP product 
signals strong market acceptance and 
operational viability. With plans to expand the 
business to additional states in a calibrated 
manner, IndoStar aims to scale the portfolio 
gradually while maintaining credit discipline. 
Though the segment currently contributes a 
modest share to AUM, it is expected to play 
an increasingly important role in diversifying 
the Company’s retail book and supporting 
sustainable, secured asset growth in the 
coming years.
Corporate Lending Segment Performance 
AUM (in ` crore)
2024-25
156
2023-24
388
Micro LAP
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited introduced its Micro 
LAP product in 2024-25 as part of its broader shift 
toward retail-focussed, secured lending solutions. 
This offering is specifically crafted for self-employed 
individuals operating small-scale businesses in rural 
and semi-urban areas, addressing the unmet credit 
needs of segments typically excluded from formal 
financing. With a focus on offering small-ticket, 
fully secured loans against residential property, the 
product aims to support working capital and business 
expansion for micro-enterprises while maintaining 
prudent risk metrics.
Loan Tenure
5-7 YEARS
Micro LAP Segment Performance (2024-25)
NEARLY 1,000
Borrowers
` 52 CRORE
` 54 CRORE
AUM
Disbursement
BELOW ` 6 LAKHS
BELOW 50%
Average Ticket 
Size
LTV Ratio
For 2024-25
For 2024-25
Cumulative as on March 31, 2025
33 
(4%)
389 
(43%)
32 
(4%)
302 
(33%)
211 
(23%)
295 
(32%)
501 
(55%)
250 
(28%)
486 
(54%)
99 
(11%)
85 
(9%)
95 
(10%)
Cumulative as on March 31, 2025
376 
(41%)
205 
(23%)
244 
(27%)
83 
(9%)
Loan Amount-Wise Distribution
 Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratio-Wise Distribution
Up to 3 lakhs
Up to 30
>5 lacs to 10 lakhs
41-50
>3 lacs to 5 lakhs
31-40
>10 lakhs
>50
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
63
Annual Report 2024-25
62
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Experienced Leadership
The Company’s strong and experienced 
leadership brings deep expertise in banking, 
finance, risk management and digital 
transformation – ensuring that the Company 
remains agile and forward-looking in a 
competitive industry.
Deep Market Penetration
With a strong presence in rural, semi-urban 
and underserved areas, the Company plays 
a vital role in driving financial inclusion and 
building long-term customer relationships.
Flexible Payout Options 
We offer a diverse range of payment methods 
for customers, resulting in cash payments 
accounting for only 3-4% of total transactions.
Operational Efficiency
Focussed on opening micro branches that 
operate with less manpower, leveraging the 
Customer App for service fulfilment and 
technology across loan lifecycle contribute 
to reducing cost and improves quality of 
customer services.
Strong Liquidity Position
The Company strategically manages the 
liquidity through a balanced mix of short-
term instruments, credit lines and diversified 
funding sources. This strength supports timely 
loan disbursement, smooth servicing of debt 
and liabilities and operational stability.
Centralised Underwriting 
Framework
	 Emphasising Income Assessment from 
Informal Sources
	 Targeting New-to-Credit Customers and 
Loans under ` 20 lakhs, while deprioritising 
Higher Delinquency Categories
Expanding the LAP Portfolio
Tapping into significant Micro LAP 
opportunities in Tier 3 and 4 cities.
IndoStar’s Key 
Business Strengths 
RBI Guidelines and 
Prudential Norms
ICFL has complied with the guidelines issued by 
RBI regarding accounting guidelines, prudential 
norms for asset classification, income recognition, 
provisioning, capital adequacy, concentration of 
credit, credit rating, Know Your Customer (KYC) 
guidelines and Anti Money Laundering (AML) 
Standards, Fair Practices Code, grievance redressal 
mechanism, valuation of properties, recovery of 
dues, channel partners and real estate and capital 
market exposures. 
ICFL had no investment in excess of the limits 
prescribed by RBI with any one company or any 
single group of companies. ICFL has not made 
investment in any of the promoter group companies 
or in the stock markets.
ICFL’s CRAR as of March 31, 2025 was 28.46% as 
against RBI’s prescribed limit of 15%.
Insurance Products
Loans
Classification of Loan Assets 
as per Ind AS
ICFL has partnered with 3 new Insurance Companies 
under the corporate agency license obtained in 
February 2024 – Magma General Insurance, Tata AIA 
General Insurance, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. 
Insurance Income was ` 4.76 crore in the previous 
year.
During the year, total outstanding loans increased to 
` 7,464 crore from ` 6,298 crore and registered a 
growth of 19%. 
The total outstanding loans at fixed rates stood at  
` 7,076 crore (previous year ` 5,549 crore), 
which was 95% (previous year 88%) of the total 
outstanding loans. 
Loans to total assets stood at 67.05% as of  
March 31, 2025.
ICFL’s outstanding retail loans of ` 7,308 crore 
constitute 98% of the total outstanding loans. MSME 
Loans including Loan Against Properties of ` 232 
crore and Micro LAP Loans of ` 52 crore constituted 
3% and 0.70% respectively of the total outstanding 
loans. 
The average yield realised on the loan assets during 
the year was 16.5% (previous year 16.0%).
Under Ind AS, asset classification and provisioning 
moves from the ‘rule based’, incurred losses model 
to the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model of 
providing for expected future credit losses. Thus, 
loan loss provisions are made on the basis of the 
Company’s historical loss experience and future 
expected credit loss, after factoring in various 
macro-economic parameters. Under Ind AS, asset 
classification comprises three categories based 
on ageing of Exposure at Default (EAD) which is 
principal and accrued interest. Outstanding between 
0 to 30 days are Stage 1 assets, outstanding 
between 31 days to 89 days are Stage 2 assets, and 
Stage 3 assets are those where outstanding EAD is 
for 90 days and above.
ICFL’s Stage 1 loan assets have been steady, 
comprising of 89% of the total exposure as of March 
31, 2024, and March 31, 2025. Stage 2 loans have 
increased from 5.15% as of March 31, 2024, to 6.09% 
as of March 31, 2025. Loans under Stage 3 have 
improved from 4.97% as of March 31, 2024 to 4.52% 
as of March 31, 2025.
As per Ind AS 109 on Financial Instruments, ICFL is 
carrying total provisions of ` 247.45 crore towards 
expected future credit losses which is 3.32% on 
Loan Assets of ` 7,464 crore. Of this, provision of ` 
157.28 crore is required towards Stage 3 loans of ` 
337.14 crore. Provisions amounting to ` 90.17 crore 
are required on Stage 1 and Stage 2 loan assets of ` 
7,126.83 crore. 
During the year, the Company has written off ` 
61.75 crore in respect of CV loans and ` 0.99 crore 
in respect of MSME loans where the recovery was 
difficult in the near future. However, the Company 
continued the recovery efforts in respect of written 
off loans of earlier years and could effect recoveries 
of ` 10.71 crore during the year in respect of such 
written off loans.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
65
Annual Report 2024-25
64
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Operational Performance in 2024-25
Financial Performance in 2024-25
Statement of Profit and Loss
AUM (in ` crore)
Disbursements (in ` crore)
Segment
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
Vehicle Finance
7,401
5,594
3,672
4,908
4,194
Home Finance
3,091
2,270
1,623
1,406
996
SME Finance
353
485
1,293
1,776
1,849
Corporate Lending
156
388
1,200
1,543
1,932
Micro LAP
52
-
-
-
-
Total
11,053
8,763
7,813
9,658
8,998
Segment
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
Retail Lending
6,428
5,190
1,937
4,885
1,609
Corporate Lending
29
307
162
61
218
Total
6,457
5,497
2,099
4,947
1,827
In 2024-25, IndoStar continued its strategic pivot 
towards a retail-centric model with a focus on 
operational discipline, asset quality, and portfolio 
diversification. The year was marked by a sharp 
execution of priorities, including deepening 
presence in underpenetrated markets, expanding 
product offerings, and further consolidation of its 
core businesses.
The Company’s AUM reached ` 7,963 crore in 2024-
25, compared to ` 6,493 crore in 2023-24 with the 
Profit After Tax (PAT) for the year standing at ` 52.6 
crore in 2024-25.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the 
performance of its former wholly owned subsidiary 
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (formerly 
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited), AUM grew 
by 26% YoY, reaching ` 11,053 crore in 2024-25, 
compared to ` 8,763 crore in 2023-24. Consolidated 
PAT for the year stood at ` 120.5 crore in 2024-25, 
up from ` 115.8 crore in 2023-24.
Key elements of the statement of profit and loss for the 
year ended March 31, 2025 are:
	 Profit After Tax (PAT) reduced by 26.56% as against 
61.76% in the previous year
	 Post-tax return on average assets was 0.51% as 
against 0.9% in the previous year
	 Ratio of net interest margin to average assets was 
5.6% for the current year as against 5.5% in the 
previous year
	 Cost to income ratio was 71.7% for the year as 
against 71.6% in the previous year
	 The Earnings per Share (Basic) was ` 3.86 for the 
current year as against ` 5.26 for the previous year
	 Debt-to-equity ratio was 2.03 times in the current 
year as against 1.96 times in the previous year
Key Achievements of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (2024-25)
Retail Diversification and Micro LAP 
Rollout
IndoStar launched its Micro LAP offering in May 
2024 to support underbanked micro enterprises 
in rural and semi-urban markets. Piloted through 
existing branches in the State of Tamil Nadu, this 
secured, low-ticket, high-yield product follows 
a fully digital process. The early success has set 
the stage for phased national expansion through 
its established vehicle finance network.
1
3
5
7
4
6
8
Operational Efficiency and Digitisation
Focussed digitisation across loan processes 
improved turnaround times, lowered service 
costs, and increased productivity. IndoStar 
implemented paperless workflows.
Multi-Product Delivery Model
The shift to a multi-product branch model 
allowed IndoStar to offer multiple financial 
solutions through a single outlet, driving 
operational leverage and cost efficiency without 
expanding physical infrastructure.
Funding Profile Strengthening
New lender additions, successful public NCD 
issuance, revision in rating outlook to ‘stable’ by 
CRISIL and over ` 5,000 crore in funding raised 
at better rates led to a stronger balance sheet. 
The refinancing of high-cost debt is expected to 
reduce borrowing costs further in 2025-26.
Branch Network 
The Company expanded its reach to 446 
branches, adding 54 locations in underserved 
towns, aiding deeper customer access.
Granular Retail Lending Focus
Retail loans formed nearly 95% of the total 
portfolio, supported by a significant drop 
in average ticket size. Non-CV segments 
contributed 35% to disbursements, indicating 
effective diversification into farm, construction, 
and passenger vehicle loans.
Asset Quality and Collection Gains
Refined underwriting and tech-enabled 
collections improved portfolio quality and 
reduced delinquencies. Collection efficiency 
improved steadily, reflecting disciplined 
borrower behaviour and focussed risk 
management.
Strategic Divestment of Housing 
Subsidiary
The sale of the housing subsidiary for  
` 1,750 crore will boost liquidity, enhance key 
financial ratios, and simplify group operations.
2
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
67
Annual Report 2024-25
66
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Debt Instruments and Associated 
Costs
During 2024-25, IndoStar successfully completed its 
maiden public issue of secured, redeemable Non-
Convertible Debentures (NCDs), raising ` 266 crore 
at coupon rates ranging from 10.3% to 10.7% per 
annum. This issuance, filed with stock exchanges 
on July 29, 2024, was well received by debt market 
investors and marked the Company’s entry into the 
NCD market as a new source of funding. In addition, 
the Company repaid high-cost NCDs aggregating 
over ` 2,500 crore during the year, significantly 
reducing its borrowing costs. As a result, the 
incremental cost of borrowing declined to nearly 
10% by the close of 2024-25.
Investments
In order to maintain adequate liquidity and to 
reduce negative carry between the time lag of 
raising resources and its further deployment for 
lending purposes, the surplus funds are invested by 
the Company in various debt schemes of mutual 
funds, Treasury Bills (T-Bills), Government Securities 
(G Secs) and other debt products or securities 
like Commercial Papers (CPs) & Non-Convertible 
Debentures (NCDs) of other entities and fixed 
deposits with scheduled banks. 
All the investment transactions are strictly in 
accordance with the Board approved Investment 
Policy of the Company and no deviation from the 
permitted products, their respective credit rating 
requirements and stipulated limits as well as the 
authorisation matrix as mandated in the Investment 
Policy are allowed by the Company. 
Further, the investment assets particularly the T-Bills 
and G Secs also form a part of the High-Quality 
Liquid Assets (HQLA) for the mandatory Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (LCR) requirement by RBI. 
During the year, the Company earned ` 32.43 
crore from mutual funds, ` 10.81 crore from T-Bills 
& G Secs, ` 4.03 crore from CPs and NCDs of 
other entities and ` 0.79 crore from fixed deposit 
investments. 
Apart from unencumbered cash and bank balances 
and unutilised credit lines, the Company at the end 
of the year, maintained liquidity of ` 875.58 crore in 
the form of mutual funds, fixed deposits, T-Bills, G 
Secs and NCDs as against ` 585.91 crore during the 
previous year. 
Borrowings
The Company has been raising funds to support its 
lending activities through both short term (original 
maturity less than 12 months) and long-term 
borrowings. The short-term borrowings constitute 
Commercial Papers (CP) from market investors and 
Working Capital Demand Loans (WCDL) from banks. 
The long-term borrowings mainly represent both 
public and private placement of Non-Convertible 
Debentures (NCD)s and term loans from banking as 
well as other financial institutions. 
In order to sustain a healthy Net Interest Margin 
(NIM) with reduced risk of ALM mismatch, the 
Company has Board approved internal norms and 
limits for each of the funding sources to maintain a 
prudent mix of all the borrowing instruments. 
During the year due to greater interest/participation 
from the market lenders, the Company raised  
` 1,320 crore CPs as against ` 553.80 crore CPs in 
the previous year. Consequently, quantum of short 
term WCDLs raised during the year were marginally 
lesser i.e. ` 495 crore as against ` 517.50 crore in the 
previous year. Similarly, the Company concluded its 
maiden public issue of NCDs in this year and raised 
` 265.59 crore for tenors from 2 to 5 years. NCDs 
raised through private placement were ` 890 crore 
as against ` 2,455 crore in the previous year. Further, 
long term loans raised in the year were  
` 1,370 crore as against ` 245 crore in the last year 
due to increased exposure by existing and new 
banks. The Company also did securitisation of assets 
through Pass though Certificates (PTCs) amounting 
to ` 1,016.93 crore during the year as against  
` 1,103.27 crore in the previous year. The outstanding 
PTC at the end of the year stood at ` 1,182 crore as 
against ` 1,474 crore. The proportion of outstanding 
PTC to total borrowings reduced to 17% at the end 
of the year compared to 24% in the last year. The 
outstanding borrowings at the end of year stood at 
` 5,752 crore as against ` 4,632 crore in last year.
All the borrowings were a mix of fixed and floating 
rate interests and the short term borrowings 
constitute 14.17% of the total outstanding 
borrowings at the end of the year. 
Other than CPs all the borrowings are secured on a 
pari-passu basis by way of floating charge against 
the standard loan receivables and unencumbered 
treasury assets of the Company in favour of IDBI 
Trusteeship Services Limited.
The average cost of total borrowings incurred 
during the year was 10.9% per annum compared 
to 11.6% per annum for last year and the average 
cost of incremental borrowings incurred during the 
year has reduced to 10.0% per annum from 11.2% 
per annum in the last year. The short term rating of 
the Company is A1+ from both CRISIL and CARE 
indicating a very strong degree of safety for timely 
payment of financial obligations with the lowest 
credit risk whereas the long term rating is AA- with 
Stable Outlook signifying high degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations 
with very low credit risk. During the year CRISIL 
revised the long-term rating outlook to ‘Stable’ from 
earlier ‘Negative’ citing improving diversification 
in the borrowing profile owing to traction in fund 
raising from new and existing banks and also 
improvement in commercial vehicle asset quality of 
the Company.
3,216
3,274
1,296
1,944
1,466
1,180
72
518
Resource Profile (%)
Total 
6,050
March 2024
March 2025
Total 
6,916
NCD
Securitisation
Banks
CP
Human Resources
IndoStar considers its workforce as a key enabler of 
growth and operational excellence. In 2024–25, the 
Company strengthened its human capital strategy in 
alignment with its retail-led expansion, focussing on 
efficient workforce deployment, technology-driven 
productivity, and long-term talent retention.
The total workforce increased to 4,437 employees 
as of March 31, 2025, from 3,213 a year earlier, 
reflecting the scale-up of operations in Tier 3 to Tier 
5 markets. Manpower deployment was strategically 
aligned with branch-level potential and emerging 
business priorities to ensure optimal resourcing.
The Company continued to foster a culture 
of collaboration, inclusivity, and performance 
excellence, supported by four pillars: capability 
building, employee engagement, wellness, and 
performance-linked rewards. A structured learning 
agenda was implemented through initiatives such as 
the Lead Next leadership programme, Sales Yodha 
for sales excellence, and targeted Area Yodha and 
Credit Yodha programmes. Foundational training 
on compliance, cybersecurity, KYC, POSH, and 
digital tools was delivered through the Learning 
Management System (LMS).
Talent retention remained a focus area. While 
annualised attrition stood at 36%, primarily in front-
line roles, stability was maintained in credit and 
collections teams, ensuring strong risk oversight. 
Robust performance management processes, 
including Performance Improvement Plans (PIPs), 
were implemented to strengthen accountability. 
The seasoned leadership team with deep BFSI 
experience continues to anchor the Company’s 
transformation and growth journey.
Headcount
No. of Branches
2024-25
2,622
2023-24
2,057
2022-23
3,067
2021-22
4,304
No. of Staff Members and 
No. of Branches
369
350
391
451
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
69
Annual Report 2024-25
68
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Risk Management
The Company understands the critical role of a 
robust risk management framework in realising its 
business objectives. This enterprise-wide framework, 
aligned with industry best practices, employs a 
proactive approach to identify potential threats. 
This framework employs a proactive approach to 
identify potential threats. Once identified, each risk 
is meticulously assessed based on its likelihood of 
occurrence (probability) and potential impact (level 
of impact and criticality) on financial performance, 
operations, reputation, and regulatory compliance.
The risk governance structure is as below:
On the infrastructure side, IndoStar has undertaken 
a phased shift to cloud-based systems from legacy 
on-premise solutions. This transition has helped 
optimise costs while improving agility and scalability 
for core business applications.
Cybersecurity remains a top priority for the 
Company. Measures such as firewall deployment at 
all branches, enforced use of complex passwords, 
dark web surveillance, and mobile device 
management have significantly strengthened 
IndoStar’s defence against data breaches. Secure 
email gateways and other data protection tools 
have been integrated to bolster data security and 
minimise the risk of leaks.
A testament to these efforts, in May 2025 IndoStar 
achieved a perfect score of 100 in the ‘Cyber 
Reconnaissance Exercise’ conducted by the 
Reserve Bank of India with external experts – a rare 
distinction that underscores the robustness of its 
cybersecurity framework.
Together, these initiatives have positioned IndoStar 
as a technology-forward NBFC, ready to scale 
securely and efficiently in a digital-first lending 
environment.
The Company's Enterprise Risk Management 
framework comprehensively covers the following 
aspects of risk: 
	 Credit Risk 
	 ALM and Liquidity Risk
	 Operational Risks
	 Fraud Risks
	 Reputational and Compliance Risks
	 Cybersecurity Risks
	 Strategic and Business Risks
Board of Directors 
(Oversee the entire risk 
management process)
Risk Management Committee 
(Meets four times a year, periodic review 
of risk framework and process, key risk 
movements and other initiatives)
Chief Risk Officer 
(Establish framework, tools and techniques, 
create risk awareness, work with functional 
heads to identify, assess, mitigate, monitor 
and report key risks)
Information Technology
IndoStar has made significant progress in enhancing 
its digital infrastructure, transitioning to a fully 
digital lending framework with the adoption 
of a next-generation Loan Origination System 
(LOS). This system upgrade has greatly improved 
transparency and control across the entire lending 
lifecycle.
Key technological advancements include the 
automation of KYC processes, data-driven 
underwriting models, and robust API integrations, all 
of which have contributed to increased operational 
efficiency. The Company’s partnerships with fintech 
developers have also delivered tangible results, 
such as the launch of a customer mobile application 
that reduces the need for in-person branch visits. 
Similarly, a newly deployed sales app has enhanced 
the productivity of the sales team by streamlining 
lead management and field operations.
To further improve accuracy and reduce manual 
workload, IndoStar has implemented Robotic 
Process Automation (RPA) in various functions 
such as incentive processing, data entry, KYC 
documentation, and daily reporting. Additional 
technology-led improvements include automated 
bank ledger reconciliation and real-time PAN and 
Aadhaar verification, ensuring better compliance 
with regulatory requirements.
The Company’s risk governance framework 
operates on a set of fundamental principles to 
ensure effective management of risks across the 
organisation. The Board of Directors holds overall 
responsibility for governance and oversight of 
core risk management activities which delegates 
the execution strategy to the RMC. Segregation of 
duties follows the ‘three lines of defence’ model, 
ensuring independence between front-office 
functions, risk management and oversight, and 
internal audit roles. Risk strategy, aligned with the 
Company’s risk appetite, is approved by the Board 
annually to align risk, capital, and performance 
targets. Major risk classes, including credit risk, 
market risk, operational risk, and liquidity risk, 
are managed through focussed and specific risk 
management processes.
Functional managers support the entity’s risk 
management philosophy, promote compliance 
with its risk appetite, and manage risks within 
their spheres of responsibility consistent with risk 
appetite.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
71
Annual Report 2024-25
70
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Risk
Description
Mitigation Measures
Cyber 
security-
Related
We may encounter risks such as data 
breaches, cyberattacks, and unauthorised 
access, potentially compromising 
sensitive information and harming the 
Company’s reputation.
Implementation of rigorous information 
classification and controls, including 
Data Leak Prevention (DLP) measures, to 
prevent unauthorised data disclosures, 
Security Operations Centre (SOC) 
monitors and responds to security 
incidents, conducting vulnerability 
assessment on a regular basis, 
maintaining robust email and network 
security measures, development of 
Business Continuity and Disaster 
Recovery plans to ensure resilience 
and preparedness in the face of any 
disruptions.
Strategic and 
Business-
Related
Such risks arise from poor business 
decisions, incorrect strategic planning 
or failure to adapt to changing market 
conditions, regulations or competition.
Detailed annual business plans, regular 
competitive analysis, regulatory updates, 
regular feedback collection and product 
customisation to improve retention, co-
lending and variable cost models are 
some of the practices adopted by the 
Company to mitigate such risk.
Internal Financial Controls
Cautionary Statement
In 2024-25, IndoStar maintained a structured 
framework of internal financial controls aimed at 
ensuring operational discipline, asset protection, 
regulatory compliance, and reliable financial 
reporting. The Company continued to enhance its 
control environment by identifying and addressing 
gaps through regular policy reviews and system 
upgrades. Internal audits, conducted both by the 
in-house team and with external assistance on an 
ongoing basis, provided independent assurance. 
Risk-based internal audit plans focused on high-
priority areas, with critical observations first 
reviewed by the internal audit team and then 
evaluated by the Audit Committee. Based on 
the findings, corrective actions were initiated by 
respective functional heads to strengthen the 
overall control framework and improve process 
efficiency. These steps reflect the Company’s focus 
on maintaining strong corporate governance and 
effective risk oversight.
This document contains ‘forward-looking’ 
statements that reflect IndoStar’s current 
expectations regarding future events and 
performance. These statements involve assumptions 
and are subject to known and unknown risks and 
uncertainties. Actual outcomes may differ materially 
from those projected. Readers should not place 
undue reliance on these statements, which are 
qualified in their entirety by the risk disclosures and 
assumptions detailed in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis section of the 2024-25 Annual Report.
Risk
Description
Mitigation Measures
Credit-
Related 
Credit risk arises from borrower default, 
stemming from liquidity crises, economic 
downturns, bankruptcy, or other factors.
Comprehensive and well-defined credit 
policy, strengthened underwriting, 
tech-led collections, early warning 
systems, regular review of loan portfolio 
performance and higher provisioning 
ensure better asset quality.
ALM and 
Liquidity-
Related 
The ALM risk arises from a discrepancy 
in the maturity profiles of assets and 
liabilities, caused by varying loan 
tenures for customers compared to debt 
obligations raised by the Company.
A detailed ALM and Contingency Funding 
Plan Policy, regular monitoring of key 
ratios and structural liquidity statements, 
and ensuring sufficient liquidity assets 
and reserves to support growth and 
meet obligations, along with continual 
access to funds, help maintain liquidity in 
unforeseen circumstances.
Operational 
Operational Risk pertains to operational 
failures, including breakdowns in 
processes and controls, which can 
adversely affect business continuity, 
reputation, and profitability of the 
Company.
Robust control and audit mechanisms, 
adherence to standard operating 
procedures, and a comprehensive 
reporting framework ensure that 
operational risks are minimised and 
always managed efficiently.
Frauds
The Company may encounter various 
fraud risks, including loan fraud, identity 
theft, internal fraud, and cyber fraud. 
These risks can lead to financial losses 
and damage to ICFL’s reputation due to 
deliberate deception or misrepresentation 
by individuals or entities, both internally 
and externally.
Control framework covering segregation 
of duties at various levels, maker-
checker concept, strengthening of 
internal controls across the organisation, 
effective internal audit mechanism, strict 
adherence to the delegation of authority 
and dedicated Risk Control Unit has been 
implemented to mitigate fraud risk.
Reputational 
and 
Compliance-
Related
In the financial sector, there are intricate 
regulatory requirements. Failure to 
comply with these regulations can lead 
to financial penalties and harm the 
Company’s reputation.
Dedicated compliance teams ensure 
adherence to applicable laws and 
regulations, regular audits and reviews, 
and robust internal control framework.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
73
Annual Report 2024-25
72
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
75
Annual Report 2024-25
74
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Members,
Your Directors are pleased to present the 16th Annual Report on the affairs of your Company together with the 
audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.	
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
The key highlights of the audited standalone financial statements of your Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025 and comparison with the previous financial year ended March 31, 2024 are summarized below:
(` In crore)
Particulars
Standalone
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024 
Total income
1,412.42
1,125.23
Total expenditure
1,359.82
1,053.62
Profit/(loss) before taxation
52.59
71.61
Less: Provision for taxation
- Current tax
-
-
- Deferred tax asset
-
-
- Tax of earlier years
-
-
Net profit/(loss) after taxes
52.59
71.61
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
0.69
(0.24)
Total comprehensive income
51.90
71.38
Transfer to statutory reserve fund pursuant to Section 45-IC of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
(10.52)
(14.32)
Appropriation towards dividend and dividend distribution tax
-
-
Surplus in the statement of profit and loss
41.38
57.06
Balance brought forward from previous period
(322.64)
(379.70) 
Balance carried to balance sheet
(281.26)
(322.64)
Earnings per share (Face Value ` 10/- each)
Basic (`)
3.86
5.26
Diluted (`)
3.74
5.26
FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE 
AND 
COMPANY’S 
STATE OF AFFAIRS
The financial highlights tabulated above are based 
on the requirement of the Reserve Bank of India 
(“RBI”)  Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company –Scale Based 
Regulation) Directions, 2023, the circulars, directions, 
notifications issued by the RBI from time to time (“RBI 
Directions”) and provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”) read with Rules made thereunder. 
For details of Reserves and Surplus of the Company, 
please refer Note 22 of the audited standalone 
financial statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025.
Details on performance of your Company has also 
been covered in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report which forms part of the Annual 
Report.
DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
In terms of the Dividend Distribution Policy of the 
Company, dividend shall be declared / recommended 
on the equity shares of the Company, keeping in view 
the Company’s objective of meeting the long-term 
capital requirement for the business from internal cash 
accruals and appropriately rewarding shareholders. 
Details of the Dividend Distribution Policy have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report and is also available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-services.
Due to carry forward losses of previous years and 
unavailability of sufficient profits of the current year, 
directors do not recommend any dividend for the 
financial year under review.
ACCOUNTING METHODS
The financial statements of the Company have been 
prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (“Ind AS”) notified under Section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from time to 
time.
In terms of Section 129 of the Act read with Rules 
framed thereunder, audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries shall 
be laid before the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
of the Company along with the audited standalone 
financial statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025.
The audited standalone and consolidated financial 
statements 
together 
with 
Auditor’s 
Report(s) 
thereon along with the salient features of the financial 
statements of the subsidiaries of the Company in the 
prescribed Form AOC – 1 forms part of the Annual 
Report and are also available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-relations.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS 
In terms of Section 186(11) of the Act read with 
Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 
2014, the provisions of Section 186 in respect of loans 
made, guarantees given or securities provided by the 
Company are not applicable to the Company.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 186(4) 
of the Act, the details of investments made by the 
Company are given in the Note 06 of the audited 
standalone financial statements.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES & THEIR FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
As on March 31, 2025, the Company had 2 (two) 
wholly-owned subsidiaries namely, Niwas Housing 
Finance Private Limited (erstwhile IndoStar Home 
Finance Private Limited) (“NHFPL”) and IndoStar 
Asset Advisory Private Limited (“IAAPL”). The 
Company does not have any joint venture(s) / 
associate company(ies) within the meaning of 
Section 2(6) of the Act.
During the year under review, there has been no 
change in the nature of business of the subsidiary 
companies and there were no additions / deletions 
in the number of subsidiaries of your Company. 
However, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 
September 19, 2024 had approved the sale of shares 
held by the Company in NHFPL to WITKOPEEND 
B.V. an affiliate of BPEA EQT Mid-Market Growth 
Partnership (“EQT”) and the same was approved by 
the shareholders of the Company via. postal ballot on 
October 26, 2024.
Pursuant to the necessary approvals being received, 
the Company sold 45,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10/- 
each held by it in NHFPL (i.e., 100% of shareholding”) 
to WITKOPEEND B.V. at a consideration of ` 37.91 
per share and accordingly, NHFPL ceased to be the 
subsidiary of the Company w.e.f. July 17, 2025.
The audited standalone financial statements of each 
of the subsidiaries are available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner. Members interested in obtaining a 
copy of the audited standalone financial statements 
of the subsidiaries may write to the Company 
Secretary at the Registered & Corporate Office of 
the Company or at investor.relations@indostarcapital.
com. The Company’s policy for determination 
of material subsidiary, as adopted by the Board 
of Directors, in conformity with regulation 16 of 
the Listing Regulations, can be accessed on the 
Company’s website at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner#investor-relations. In terms 
of the said policy NHFPL continue to be a material 
subsidiary of the Company during the financial year 
2024-25. 
Further, pursuant to the requirement of appointing 
an Independent Director of the Company on the 
board of directors of NHFPL in terms of explanation 
to Regulation 24(1) of the Listing Regulations, Ms. 
Naina Krishna Murthy, Independent Director of 
the Company, was appointed as the Independent 
Director on the Board of NHFPL w.e.f. April 22, 2024.
The Audit Committee reviews the financial statements 
of subsidiaries of the Company, the investments 
made by its subsidiaries and the statement of all 
significant transactions and arrangements entered 
into by the subsidiaries, if any, in terms of the Listing 
Regulations. The minutes of board meetings of the 
unlisted subsidiary companies and presentations 
on business performance of material subsidiary, are 
placed before the Board.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
77
Annual Report 2024-25
76
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (erstwhile 
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited) (‘’NHFPL”) 
NHFPL is registered with the National Housing Bank 
as a housing finance company without accepting 
public deposits and primarily focuses on providing 
affordable 
home 
finance. 
NHFPL 
commenced 
business operations in mid of 2017 and has built a 
quality and profitable portfolio of over ` 3,091 crore 
as on March 31, 2025. NHFPL operates in 9 states 
and 1 Union Territory across India through various 
branches and has an employee base of over 1,454 
employees as on March 31, 2025.
During the year under review, the total income of 
NHFPL was ` 409.08 crore (previous year: ` 290.43 
crore). The operations of NHFPL during the year 
under review has resulted in profit after tax of ` 67.76 
crore (previous year: ` 44.10 crore). The other key 
performance indicators of NHFPL are: (a) Return on 
Assets: 3.30% (b) Capital to Risk Weighted Assets 
Ratio: 49.80% (c) Debt-Equity Ratio: 3.43:1; (d) Assets 
Under Management: ` 3,091 crore which is 36% YoY 
growth (previous year: 2,270 crore which is 40% YoY 
growth); (e) Disbursements: ` 1,208 crore (previous 
year: ` 937 crore); (f) Gross Stage 3 assets: 1.35%; and 
(g) Cash & cash equivalent including undrawn lines: 
` 401.13 crore (previous year: ` 397 crore).
During 
the 
year, 
Insurance 
Regulatory 
and 
Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) had 
granted a license dated August 19, 2024 to NHFPL to 
act as composite corporate agent for solicitation and 
procurement of insurance business for life insurers, 
general insurers and health insurers as specified 
under IRDAI Regulations. 
Further, w.e.f. November 22, 2024, name was changed 
from “IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited” to 
“Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited”.
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited (“IAAPL”)
IAAPL is enabled under its objects to carry on the 
business of inter-alia advising, managing, providing 
investment advisory services, financial advisory 
services, management and facilitation services. 
IAAPL acted as an investment manager to IndoStar 
Credit Fund and IndoStar Recurring Return Credit 
Fund, both, Category II Alternative Investment Funds 
registered with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (“SEBI”). Presently, IAAPL is in process of 
surrendering the registration of IndoStar Credit Fund 
and IndoStar Recurring Return Credit Fund. 
During the year under review, the total income of 
IAAPL was ` 0.24 crore (previous year: ` 0.19 crore) 
and the Profit after tax was ` 0.17 crore (previous 
year: loss after tax was ` 0.12 crore).
MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSION 
AND 
ANALYSIS 
REPORT
In terms of the Listing Regulations and the RBI 
Directions, the Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report for the year under review is presented in a 
separate section forming part of the Annual Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT (“BRSR”)
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, 
detailed BRSR report, in the format as prescribed 
by Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), 
describing various initiatives taken by the Company 
towards the environmental, social and governance 
aspects is annexed as a part of this Report as 
Annexure V and is also available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-relations. 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
The Corporate Governance Report for the year under 
review, including disclosures as stipulated under 
Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations and the RBI Directions is annexed to and 
forms an integral part of this Board’s Report.
The Managing Director and the Chief Financial 
Officer have certified to the Board in relation to the 
financial statements and other matters as specified in 
the Listing Regulations.
A certificate from M/s. Mehta and Mehta, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, with respect to compliance 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as 
prescribed under the Listing Regulations is annexed 
to the Corporate Governance Report.
SHARE CAPITAL
Authorized Share Capital
The Authorized Share Capital of the Company stood 
at ` 200,00,00,000 (Indian Rupees Two Hundred 
crore Only) divided into (a) 18,75,00,000 (eighteen 
crore seventy five lakhs) equity shares of ` 10 (Indian 
Rupees Ten only) each, amounting to ` 1,87,50,00,000 
(Indian Rupees One Hundred Eighty Seven Crores 
Fifty Lakhs only); and (b) 1,25,00,000 (One Crore 
Twenty Five Lakh) preference shares of ` 10 (Indian 
Rupees Ten only) each, amounting to 12,50,00,000 
(Indian Rupees Twelve Crore Fifty Lakh Only).
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital
As on March 31, 2025, the issued, subscribed and 
paid-up share capital of the Company stood at 
` 1,36,09,74,470 divided into 13,60,97,447 equity 
shares of ` 10 each.
During the year under review, the Company issued and allotted 18,152 equity shares to its eligible employees 
under the Company’s Employees’ Stock Option Plan 2016 and 2018. As a result, the issued, subscribed and paid-
up equity share capital of the Company increased from 1,36,07,92,950 (comprising 1,36,07,92,95 equity shares 
of the face value of 10/- each) to 1,36,09,74,470 (comprising 13,60,97,447 equity shares of the face value of 10/- 
each). The equity shares issued under the Employees’ Stock Option Scheme ranks pari-passu with the existing 
equity shares of the Company.
Issue and allotment of convertible warrants
On March 22, 2024, your company via special resolutions passed at the Extra Ordinary General Meeting of the 
Company approved the issuance of convertible warrants on a preferential basis and accordingly the following 
allotments were made during the year under review:
Sr. 
No
Name of allottee
Date of 
allotment
Category of 
Allottee
No. of warrants
Price per 
warrant
Total 
consideration 
received
1
Florintree Tecserv LLP
May 26, 2024
Non-Promoter 
Entity
1,08,69,565
` 184
` 49,99,99,990*
2.
BCP Multiple Holdings 
Pte. Ltd.
November 26, 
2024
Promoter 
Entity
1,39,49,323
` 184
` 2,05,33,40,346#
*25% of the total consideration. Balance 75% to be received upon conversion of warrants into Equity shares.
#80% of the total consideration. Balance 20% to be received upon conversion of warrants into Equity shares.
Utilisation of funds raised through issue of 
convertible warrants:
The total fund raised through issue of convertible 
warrants as stated above were utilized and deployed 
towards growth objectives of the Company, including 
to augment the Company’s capital base, for onward 
lending by way of disbursement of loans to borrowers 
in the ordinary course of the Company’s businesses, 
in accordance with objects stated in the Letter of 
Offer issued by the Company. 
As on March 31, 2025, there were no unutilized funds 
lying in the account of the Company.
DEPOSITS
The Company has not accepted any public deposits 
during the year under review and shall not accept 
any deposits from the public without obtaining prior 
approval of the RBI. Further, the Company being an 
NBFC, the disclosure requirements under Chapter V 
of the Act read with Rule 8(5)(v) and 8(5)(vi) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are not applicable 
to the Company.
RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
The Company has diversified funding sources 
including public sector banks, private sector banks, 
mutual funds, insurance companies and financial 
institutions. Funds were raised through various 
modes including bank borrowings, issuance of non-
convertible debentures on private placement basis 
as well as public issue of non-convertible debentures, 
issue of commercial papers, issue of convertible 
warrants and sale / assignment / securitization of 
loan assets of the Company etc.
During the year under review, your Company 
continued with its diverse methods of sourcing 
funds including borrowing through Secured and 
Unsecured Debentures, Term Loans, Pass Through 
Certificate (PTC) Borrowings, Commercial Papers, 
etc. and maintained a prudent Asset Liability 
match throughout the year. Leveraging its long-
standing relationships with lenders, investors and 
intermediaries, the Company effectively managed its 
cost of funds despite the challenging liquidity and 
interest rate environment. The Company sourced 
long-term debentures and loans from banks and 
other institutions at competitive interest rates without 
compromising the right mix of long and short-term 
borrowings, thereby maintaining a healthy asset 
liability position. The Company continues to expand 
its borrowing profile by tapping into new lenders and 
geographies. 
The Company continued to receive support for 
its money market issuances from banks through 
subscription of Commercial Papers (CPs) and 
Nonconvertible 
Debentures 
(NCDs), 
and 
for 
securitisation through investment in PTCs. The 
Company maintained strong relationship with all 
lending banks, which supported the borrowing plan 
for the financial year 2024-25.
The 
Company 
successfully 
launched 
its 
maiden 
public 
issue 
of 
Secured 
Redeemable 
NCDs 
in 
September 
2024. 
The 
issue 
aimed 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
79
Annual Report 2024-25
78
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
to raise `300 crore, with a base issue size of 
` 150 crore and an option to retain oversubscription 
up to another ` 150 crore. The issue was subscribed 
to the extent of ` 265.59 crore. 
Securitisation 
During the year under review, the Company 
successfully 
completed 
eight 
securitisation 
transactions through investment in PTCs aggregating 
to ` 1,016.94 crore (Previous year ` 1,113.29 crore).
Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”)
During the year under review, your Company raised 
an aggregate of ` 1,155.59 crore through issuance of 
NCDs as detailed hereunder:
1. 	
Private Placement: ` 890.00 crore was raised 
though issuance of secured, redeemable NCDs 
on private placement basis (previous year: 
` 2,455 crore).
2. 	 Public Issue: ` 265.59 crore was raised through the 
maiden public issuance of Secured Redeemable 
NCDs.
As specified in the respective offer documents, the 
funds raised from issuance of NCDs were utilised for 
various financing activities including onward lending, 
repayment of existing indebtedness, working capital 
requirements and other general corporate purposes 
of the Company. Till the pending utilization of funds 
for stated purpose, the funds were temporarily 
invested in mutual funds/Banks FDs/ maintained a 
balance in current accounts. Details of the end-use 
of funds were furnished to the Audit Committee on 
a quarterly basis. The NCDs are listed on the debt 
market segment of BSE Limited.
Commercial Paper
As at March 31, 2025, the Company had Commercial 
Paper (“CPs”) with an outstanding amount (face 
value) of ` 535 crore (previous year: ` 660 crore). CPs 
constituted approximately 8.41 % of the outstanding 
borrowings as at March 31, 2025. The CPs of the 
Company are listed on the debt market segment of 
the BSE Limited.
Bank Borrowings (Term Loans)
During the year, your Company has borrowed an 
aggregate of ` 1,865 crore (previous year: ` 762.50 
crore) through bank borrowings with an outstanding 
of ` 1,956 crore as on March 31, 2025.
Your Company continues to be adequately capitalized 
and is in compliance with capital adequacy norms 
prescribed by the RBI. Your Company has sufficient 
liquidity to satisfy its short-term and long-term 
liabilities.
CREDIT RATING(S)
Credit Ratings assigned to the Company as on March 
31, 2025 is summarized below:
Particulars / 
Rating Agencies
Rating
Remarks
Long Term:
• Debt Programme
CARE Ratings 
Limited
CARE 
AA(-)
Securities with this 
rating are considered 
to have high degree 
of safety regarding 
timely 
servicing 
of 
financial obligations. 
Such securities carry 
very low credit risk.
CRISIL Ratings 
Limited
CRISIL 
AA(-)
• Market Linked Debentures
CARE Ratings 
Limited
CARE 
PP-MLD 
AA(-)
Securities with this 
rating are considered 
to have high degree 
of safety regarding 
timely 
servicing 
of 
financial obligations. 
Such securities carry 
very low credit risk.
• Short Term Debt Programme / Commercial Paper:
CRISIL Ratings 
Limited
CRISIL 
A1(+)
Securities with this 
rating are considered 
to have very strong 
degree 
of 
safety 
regarding 
timely 
servicing of financial 
obligations. 
Such 
securities carry very 
lowest credit risk.
CARE Ratings 
Limited
CARE 
A1(+)
During the year under review, CARE Ratings Limited 
did not revise the ratings and retained the same 
ratings as earlier assigned to the long-term or short-
term debts. 
During the year under review, while CRISIL did not 
revise the long-term or short-term rating and retained 
them at CRISIL AA- and CRISIL A1+ respectively; 
while it removed “Negative” outlook and assigned 
“Stable” outlook. 
DEBT EQUITY RATIO
Your Company’s Debt Equity ratio as on March 31, 
2025 stood at 2.03 times.
CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO
Your Company is well capitalized to provide adequate 
capital for its continued growth. As on March 31, 2025, 
the Capital to Risk Assets Ratio (“CRAR”) of your 
Company stood at 28.46% well above the regulatory 
limit of 15% as prescribed by the RBI for NBFCs.
NET OWNED FUNDS
The Net Owned Funds of your Company as on March 
31, 2025 stood at ` 2,299.65 crore (previous year: 
` 1,741.26 crore). 
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
At present, the Board of Directors of your Company 
comprises 8 (eight) Directors of which 3 (three) 
are Non-Executive Independent Directors, of whom 
2 (two) are Woman Director, 4 (four) are Non-
Executive Non-Independent Directors and 1 (one) is 
Executive Director. The Chairperson of the Board of 
Directors is a Non-Executive Independent Director. 
The Board composition is in compliance with the 
requirements of the Act, the Listing Regulations and 
the RBI Directions. Detailed composition of the Board 
of Directors of the Company has been provided in 
the Corporate Governance Report which is annexed 
to and forms an integral part of this Board’s Report.
Appointment and Cessation:
All appointments of Directors are made in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the Act, the Listing 
Regulations, the RBI Directions and other laws, rules, 
guidelines as may be applicable to the Company. 
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) 
exercises due diligence inter-alia to ascertain the ‘fit 
and proper’ status of person who is proposed to be 
appointed on the Board of Directors of the Company, 
and if deemed fit, recommends their candidature to 
the Board of Directors for consideration.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors, 
upon recommendation of the NRC , at their meeting 
held on May 13, 2024, approved and recommended 
appointment of Mr. Randhir Singh as the Whole 
Time Director and Executive Vice Chairman of the 
Company to the shareholders of the Company. The 
shareholders approved the appointment of Mr. Randhir 
Singh as the Whole Time Director and Executive Vice 
Chairman by passing a special resolution through 
postal ballot on June 28, 2024 effective from the 
date as may be decided by the Board of Directors/its 
committee. Mr. Randhir Singh assumed office as the 
Whole Time Director and Executive Vice Chairman of 
the Company with effect from July 22, 2024. 
Mr. 
Bobby 
Parikh, 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director and Chairman completed his second term of 
5 years as an Independent Director in the Company on 
March 04, 2025. Considering the valuable contribution 
made by Mr. Parikh towards the growth and success 
of the Company and his profound understanding of 
the Company’s operations, the regulatory framework 
governing its activities, and extensive experience 
in the financial services sector, Mr. Parikh was 
thereafter appointed as the Non-Executive Director 
of the Company with effect from March 05, 2025. 
Following the completion of Mr. Parikh’s tenure as an 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Company, 
the Board of the Company consisted of only 2 
Independent Directors, as against the requirement 
of a minimum of one-third of the Board of Directors 
being independent. After identifying and shortlisting 
suitable candidates and conducting proper due 
diligence process, the Company appointed Ms. 
Sujatha Mohan (DIN: 10743626) as an Independent 
Director w.e.f. April 21, 2025 and the Company has 
since been in compliance with Regulation 17(1) (b) of 
the Listing Regulations. 
Consequent to expiry of term of Mr. Parikh as 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Company, 
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy (DIN: 01216114) was 
appointed as Chairperson of the Board of Directors 
effective from March 05, 2025.
During the year under review Mr. Vibhor Kumar 
Talreja (DIN: 08768297), Non-Executive Director of 
the Company resigned from the position of Director 
w.e.f. March 03, 2025. 
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker ceased to be the Chief 
Financial Officer pursuant to his retirement effective 
March 03, 2025. Subsequently, Mr. Jayesh Jain was 
appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the Company 
effective the same date. 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, (DIN: 10056556) resigned 
from his role as Whole-Time Director & Chief Executive 
Officer with effect from May 11, 2025 and Mr. Randhir 
Singh was re-designated and appointed as Managing 
Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman of 
the Company, not liable to retire by rotation, with 
effect from May 11, 2025. He will continue in this role 
untill the end of his current term till July 21, 2029.
Director(s) Retiring by Rotation
In terms of Section 152(6) of the Act read with the 
Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe (DIN: 10294876), shall retire by rotation 
and being eligible, have offered himself for re-
appointment at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
of the Company. Brief profile of Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
have been included in the notice convening the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Re-appointment of Independent Directors 
None of the Independent Director(s) on the Board of 
Directors of the Company is due for re-appointment.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
81
Annual Report 2024-25
80
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Resignation of Independent Director(s)
During the year under review, none of the Independent 
Director(s) on the Board of Directors of the Company 
had resigned before the expiry of their respective 
tenure(s).
Appointment of Independent Director(s)
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(“NRC”) after considering, (i) the relevant skills, 
background 
and 
experience, 
(ii) 
declaration/
disclosure/consents received and (iii) after ensuring 
“fit and proper” status, recommended to the Board 
appointment Ms. Sujata Mohan (DIN: 10743626) as 
an Independent Director of the Company for a term 
of five years in terms of Section 149(10) of the Act. 
The Board unanimously endorsed the view of the 
NRC and recommended to the Shareholders of the 
Company, the appointment of Mr. Sujata Mohan as 
an Independent Director of the Company, not liable 
to retire by rotation, to hold office for a term of five 
years, effective from April 21, 2025. On May 24, 2025, 
the Shareholders of the Company, by way of a special 
resolution passed through Postal Ballot conducted 
through remote e-voting mode, approved the 
appointment of Ms. Sujata Mohan as an Independent 
Director of the Company for the above-mentioned 
tenure.
The Board is of the opinion that Ms. Sujata Mohan 
possess requisite qualifications, experience and 
expertise and hold the highest standards of integrity 
and her association would be of immense benefit and 
value to the Company.
Director(s) Declaration and Disclosures 
Based on the declarations and confirmations 
received in terms of the provisions of the Act, the 
Listing Regulations and the RBI Directions, none of 
the Directors on the Board of your Company are 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
Directors. 
A certificate from H Choudhary & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretary, confirming that none 
of the Directors on the Board of the Company as on 
March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Director on 
the Board of the Company by SEBI, the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority, 
forms part of the Governance Report which is annexed 
to and forms an integral part of this Board’s Report. 
Further, all the Directors meet the fit and proper 
criteria stipulated under the RBI Master Directions, as 
amended.
The Company has received the necessary declaration 
from each Independent Director in accordance with 
Section 149(7) of the Act and Regulations 16(1)(b) and 
25(8) of the Listing Regulations, that he/she meets 
the criteria of independence as laid out in Section 
149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
Listing Regulations. In the opinion of the Board, there 
has been no change in the circumstances which may 
affect their status as Independent Directors of the 
Company and the Board is satisfied of the integrity, 
expertise, and experience (including proficiency in 
terms of Section 150(1) of the Act and applicable 
rules thereunder) of all Independent Directors on the 
Board. Further, in terms of Section 150 read with Rule 
6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, Independent 
Directors of the Company have included their names 
in the data bank of Independent Directors maintained 
with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”)
During the year under review, Mr. Randhir Singh was 
appointed as Whole-Time Director designated as an 
Executive Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f. July 
22, 2024 and was designated as a KMP on October 
18, 2024. Mr. Jayesh Jain was appointed as the Chief 
Financial Officer w.e.f. March 03, 2025 on retirement 
of Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker from the office of Chief 
Financial Officer.
On May 11, 2025, Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan resigned 
from the designation of Chief Executive Officer and 
Whole-Time Director and Mr. Randhir Singh was re-
designated and appointed as Managing Director 
designated as Executive Vice Chairman of the 
Company. 
Following are the KMPs of the Company as on date of 
this Board’s Report:
Mr. Randhir Singh
Managing Director & 
Executive Vice Chairman
Mr. Jayesh Jain 
Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
MEETINGS
The Board and Committees meet at regular intervals 
inter-alia to discuss, review and consider various 
matters including business performance, strategies, 
policies and regulatory updates and impact. During 
the year under review, the Board met 15 (fifteen) 
times and several meetings of Committees including 
the Audit Committee were held. Details with 
respect to the meetings of the Board of Directors 
and Committees held during the year under review, 
including attendance by Directors / Members at 
such meetings have been provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report which is annexed to and forms an 
integral part of this Board’s Report.
COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
In terms of provisions of Section 118 of the Act, your 
Company is in compliance with Secretarial Standards 
on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and 
Secretarial Standards on General Meeting (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India. Resolutions passed by circulation are duly 
placed before the Board in the subsequent Meeting 
and the text thereof is recorded in the minutes in 
compliance with SS-1. However, in some cases, details 
of dissent or abstention, if any, were not specifically 
noted. The Company is committed to strengthening 
its processes to ensure complete and continued 
compliance. 
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board of Directors, in compliance with the 
requirements of various laws applicable to the 
Company, as part of good corporate governance 
practices and for operational convenience, has 
constituted several committees to deal with specific 
matters and has delegated powers for different 
functional areas to different committees.
The Board of Directors has amongst others, 
constituted the following:
•	
Audit Committee 
•	
Risk Management Committee 
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
•	
Asset Liability Management Committee 
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
•	
Customer Service Committee
•	
IT Strategy Committee
•	
IT Steering Committee
•	
Borrowing Committee (erstwhile Debenture 
Committee)
•	
Management Committee
•	
Internal Complaints Committee(s) 
•	
Banking Committee
•	
ESG Working Committee
•	
Disciplinary Committee
•	
Debt- Public Issue Committee
•	
New Product Committee
•	
Information Security Committee
•	
KYC AML Committee
•	
Review Committee
•	
Identification Committee
•	
Committee of Executives
Detailed note on the composition of the Board and 
its committees, including its terms of reference 
and meetings held are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report. The composition and terms of 
reference of the Committees of the Board of the 
Company is in line with the provisions of the Act, the 
Listing Regulations and RBI Directions. 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, the Board of Directors adopted a Board 
Performance Evaluation Policy to set out a formal 
mechanism for evaluating performance of the Board, 
that of its committee(s) and individual Directors 
including the Chairperson. Additionally, in order to 
outline detailed process and criteria to be considered 
for performance evaluation, the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) has put in place 
the ‘Performance Evaluation Process – Board, 
Committees and Directors’, which forms an integral 
part of the Board Performance Evaluation Policy. 
The questionnaires for performance evaluation are 
comprehensive and in alignment with the guidance 
note on Board evaluation issued by the SEBI, vide 
its circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/004 
dated January 05, 2017 and are in line with the 
criteria and methodology of performance evaluation 
approved by the NRC.
In terms of the requirement of Schedule IV of the 
Act and Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, a 
separate meeting of the Independent Directors was 
held on February 21, 2025 to review the performance 
of the Board, Non-Independent Directors, Board 
Committees, individual Directors and the Chairperson.
A statement indicating the manner in which formal 
evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
Committee(s) of the Board, individual Directors 
including the Chairman during the year under 
review was carried out, is provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report which is annexed to and forms an 
integral part of this Board’s Report.
The Board of the Company was satisfied with the 
functioning of the Board and its Committees. The 
Committees are functioning well and besides covering 
the Committees’ terms of reference, as mandated by 
applicable laws, important issues were brought up 
and discussed in the Committee Meetings. The Board 
was also satisfied with the contribution of Directors 
in their individual capacities. The Board has full faith 
in the Chairperson leading the Board effectively and 
ensuring participation and contribution from all the 
Board Members.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
83
Annual Report 2024-25
82
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
An annual performance evaluation exercise was carried out in compliance with the applicable provisions of the 
Act, Listing Regulations, the Company’s Code of Independent Directors and the criteria and methodology of 
performance evaluation approved by the NRC as under:
Evaluating 
body
Evaluatee
Broad criteria and parameters of 
evaluation
Process of evaluation
The Board, 
the NRC 
and the 
Independent 
Directors
The Board as a 
whole
Review 
of 
fulfilment 
of 
Board’s 
responsibilities 
including 
strategic 
direction, 
financial 
reporting, 
risk 
management 
framework, 
ESG, 
grievance 
redressal, 
succession 
planning, knowledge of industry trends, 
diversity of Board etc. and feedback to 
improve Board’s effectiveness
Internal 
assessment 
through 
a 
structured 
and 
separate 
rating-
based questionnaire for each of the 
evaluations. 
The evaluation is carried out on a 
secured online portal whereby the 
evaluators are able to submit their 
ratings and qualitative feedback, 
details of which are accessible only 
to the NRC Chairperson. 
The 
NRC 
also 
reviews 
the 
implementation 
and 
compliance 
of the evaluation exercise done 
annually. The results and outcome 
are evaluated, deliberated upon and 
noted by the Independent Directors, 
the NRC and the Board at their 
respective meetings.
The Board
The Committees 
of  the Board 
(separately  for 
each Committee)
Structure, composition, attendance and 
participation, meetings of Committees, 
effectiveness of the functions handled, 
independence of the Committee from 
the Board, contribution to decisions of 
the Board etc.
The Board, 
the  NRC, 
and the  
Independent  
Directors
Independent  
Directors 
including  those 
seeking  re-
appointment,  
Non-Independent 
Directors, and 
the Executive 
Directors 
(excluding the  
Director being  
evaluated)
Qualifications, 
experience, 
skills, 
independence criteria, integrity of the 
Directors, contribution and attendance 
at meetings, ability to function as a 
team and devote time, fulfilment of 
functions, ability to challenge views 
of others in a constructive manner, 
knowledge acquired with regard to the 
Company’s 
business, 
understanding 
of industry, fairness and transparency 
demonstrated, adequacy of resource 
staffing
The Board, 
the  NRC 
and the  
Independent  
Directors
Chairman
Skills, 
expertise, 
effectiveness 
of 
leadership, 
effective 
engagement 
with other Board  members during 
and outside meetings,  allocation 
of time to other Board members  at 
the meetings and ability to steer the 
meetings, 
commitment, 
impartiality, 
ability  to keep shareholders’ interests 
in mind,  effective engagement with 
shareholders  during general meetings 
etc.
Outcome and results of the performance evaluation
As on March 31, 2025, all the Directors of your 
Company had participated in the evaluation process. 
The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the 
Annual performance evaluation process of Board 
& Committees. The results of the Evaluation for 
the year under review were shared with the Board, 
Chairperson of respective Committees and individual 
Directors.
It was noted that the meetings of the Board 
and Committees are well managed in terms of 
comprehensive updates sent well in advance, 
constructive 
participation 
and 
deliberations 
at 
the meeting led by the Chair, enabling Board and 
Committees to fulfil their statutory / review role and 
focus on Governance and Internal Controls. It was 
also noted that the Company during the year under 
review facilitated familiarisation on Prohibition of 
Insider Trading Regulations and the other regular 
updates were provided to the Board on all key 
matters.
The results of Evaluation showed high level of 
commitment and engagement of Board, its various 
Committees and senior leadership. Based on the 
outcome of the evaluation for the year under review, 
the Board shall enhance its focus on providing 
strategic 
direction, 
digital 
initiatives, 
oversee 
regulatory matters and maintaining high standards 
of governance, to enhance value for all stakeholders 
while deepening its focus on ESG and risk 
management. Based on the results of the evaluation, 
the Board has agreed on an action plan to further 
improve the effectiveness and functioning of the 
Board. The suggestions from previous evaluations 
were implemented by the Company during Financial 
year 2024-25.
FAMILIARISATION 
PROGRAMME 
FOR 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
In compliance with the requirements of the Listing 
Regulations, the Company has adopted and put in 
place a Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors to familiarize Independent Directors inter-
alia with the industry in which your Company and its 
subsidiaries operate, the Company’s business model 
and its operations in order to give them an insight 
into the Company’s business and its functioning. A 
formal letter of appointment is given to Independent 
Directors at the time of their appointment which lays 
down the fiduciary duties, roles and responsibilities 
of an Independent Director. The terms and conditions 
of appointment of Independent Directors is available 
on the website of the Company at https://www.
indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-
services.
In terms of Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations, 
the details of familiarisation programmes imparted 
to the Independent Directors during the year under 
review including details of number of programmes 
and number of hours spent by each Independent 
Director are available on the website of the Company 
at https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner 
#investor-services.
POLICY ON APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS AND 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
In terms of Section 178 (2) of the Act, the Listing 
Regulations and the RBI Directions, the Board of 
Directors adopted a ‘Policy on Selection Criteria / 
“Fit & Proper” Person Criteria’ inter-alia setting out 
parameters to be considered for appointment of 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel of the 
Company.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
approved amendment to the above Policy in order 
to align the same with the Act, Listing Regulations 
and RBI Directions. Details of the Policy on Selection 
Criteria / “Fit & Proper” Person Criteria have been 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report which 
is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report and is also available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-services.
REMUNERATION 
POLICY, 
DISCLOSURE 
OF 
REMUNERATION & PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
Remuneration Policy
Your Company has also adopted the Policy on 
Remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
Senior Management and other Employees of the 
Company in accordance with the provisions of Sub-
section (4) of Section 178 of the Act, RBI Directions 
notified by the RBI and Listing Regulations. 
During the year under review, the Policy on 
Remuneration of Directors of the Company was 
amended to, inter-alia, align with existing legal 
provisions and introduce certain standard clauses. 
Details of the Remuneration Policy have been 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of 
this Board’s Report. The Remuneration Policy is also 
available on the website of the Company at https://
www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-
services.
Employee Remuneration
In terms of Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the disclosures 
with respect to the remuneration of Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel and employees of the Company 
have been provided at Annexure III to this Board’s 
Report.
Statement containing details of employees as required 
in terms of Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 
5(2) and Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, is available for inspection at the Registered & 
Corporate Office of the Company during working 
hours for a period of 21 days before the date of 
the ensuing 16th Annual General Meeting. A copy of 
the statement may be obtained by shareholders by 
writing to the Company Secretary at the Registered 
& Corporate Office of the Company or at investor.
relations@indostarcapital.com. 
The Board of Directors confirm that remuneration 
paid to the Directors was as per the Remuneration 
Policy of the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
85
Annual Report 2024-25
84
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Details of remuneration paid to the directors of the 
Company as required to be disclosed under clause 
IV of Section II of Schedule V of the Act has been 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report which 
is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS (“ESOP PLANS”)
Your Company believes that its success and ability 
to achieve its objectives is largely determined by the 
quality of its workforce and recognises that not only 
good employment opportunities but also additional 
motivating mechanisms are needed to incentivize 
employees and aligning their interest with the 
interest of the Company. In recognition of the said 
objective, the Company adopted and implemented 
IndoStar ESOP Plan 2012 (“ESOP 2012”), IndoStar 
ESOP Plan 2016 (“ESOP 2016”), IndoStar ESOP Plan 
2016-II (“ESOP 2016-II”), IndoStar ESOP Plan 2017 
(“ESOP 2017”) and IndoStar ESOP Plan 2018 (“ESOP 
2018”) (collectively referred to as “ESOP Plans”) to 
attract, retain, motivate and incentivise employees of 
the Company and its holding / subsidiary companies. 
Pursuant to the special resolution passed through 
Postal Ballot on June 28, 2024, the shareholders 
of the Company approved the amendment to the 
IndoStar ESOP Plan 2018 (“ESOP 2018”), to ensure 
that the ESOP 2018 provides the NRC the flexibility to 
customise the grant, vesting and exercise conditions 
for the various levels of employees and those which 
meet industry remuneration standards. 
During the year under review, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (the “NRC”) has granted 
7,47,424 stock options to the eligible employees of 
the Company under the Company’s Employees’ Stock 
Option Plan (the “ESOP”) under the different plans of 
the Company. Further, the Board of Directors at its 
meeting dated May 13, 2024 on the recommendation 
of the NRC had approved grant of stock options equal 
to or exceeding 1% (one percent) of issued capital of 
the Company i.e., 17,00,000 options under IndoStar 
ESOP Plan 2018 to Mr. Randhir Singh, Managing 
Director and Executive Vice Chairman, the same was 
also approved by the shareholders via postal ballot 
on June 28, 2024. 
The ESOP Plans of the Company are implemented 
and administered by the NRC.
The Board of Directors confirms that the ESOP Plans 
are in compliance with the provisions of the Act and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021, as amended (“SBEB & SE Regulations”) A 
certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company confirming that the Scheme has been 
implemented 
in 
accordance 
with 
SEBI 
SBEB 
Regulations, is placed at the website of the Company 
at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-
corner#investor-services.
The applicable disclosures as stipulated under 
SBEB & SE Regulations for the year ended March 31, 
2025, with regards to the ESOP Plans, is uploaded 
on the Company’s website and can be accessed 
at the https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-
corner#investor-services.
AUDITORS
Statutory Auditors & their Report
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the guidelines 
issued by RBI on April 27, 2021 for appointment of 
statutory auditors for NBFCs, M S K A & Associates, 
Chartered 
Accountants, 
(Firm 
registration 
no. 
105047W), Mumbai were appointed as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company, for a period of three (3) 
consecutive years from the conclusion of the 14th 
Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the 
17th Annual General Meeting.
The Statutory Auditors have issued their unmodified 
opinion, both on standalone and consolidated financial 
statements, for the financial year ended March 31, 
2025. They have not highlighted any qualifications, 
reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers. The 
Statutory Auditors have not reported any incidents of 
material fraud to the Audit Committee of the Board 
during the financial year 2024-25. The notes to the 
accounts referred to in the auditor’s report are self-
explanatory and therefore do not call for any further 
explanation and comments.
Secretarial Auditors & their Report
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 204(1) of the 
Act read with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, the Company had appointed M/s. Mehta & 
Mehta, Practicing Company Secretaries, to conduct 
the Secretarial Audit for the financial year under 
review. 
The Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3 for 
the financial year under review, as received from 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, is attached 
as Annexure I to the Board’s Report. 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, in their 
report on the secretarial audit of your Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 have 
submitted following remarks/qualifications:
1.	
As per Secretarial Standard -1, resolutions passed 
by circulation shall be noted at a subsequent 
Meeting of the Board and the text thereof with 
dissent or abstention, if any, shall be recorded in 
the Minutes of such Meeting. However, abstention 
is not noted in board meeting. 
2.	
Regulation 17(1) (b) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
prescribes the requirement of having at least one-
third of the Board of Directors as Independent 
Directors. However, the composition of the 
Board is not duly constituted in the absence of 
requisite number of Independent Directors.
3.	
The Company has failed to adhere to Regulation 
19(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 by appointing 
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy as the Chairperson 
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
effective March 05, 2025. Who is also the 
Chairperson the Board.
Director’s Response to the remarks/qualification in 
Secretarial Audit Report:
1.	
The Company has noted the remark made and 
has strengthen its processes and maker-checker 
system in order to ensure compliance with the 
applicable to laws/regulations/rules.
2.	
The Company was in compliance with the 
provisions of Regulation 17(1) (b) of the 
SEBI 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations 
2015 
(“Listing 
Regulations”) until March 4, 2025. Consequent 
to the expiry of the term of Mr. Bobby Parikh, 
as Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Company on March 4, 2025, the Board of the 
Company consisted of only 2 Independent 
Directors, as against the requirement of a 
minimum of 1/3rd of the Board of Directors 
being independent.
	
It is submitted that in order to ensure continued 
compliance with Regulation 17(1) (b) and 
considering the importance and criticality of 
the position of Independent Director on the 
Board, the Company had initiated the process 
of identifying a suitable candidate well in 
advance to the impending expiry of term of Mr. 
Parikh on March 4, 2025. However, identifying 
a qualified individual whose expertise and 
experience aligned with the Company’s values 
and principles and which could contribute 
positively to the business of the Company and 
its stakeholders took longer than as anticipated. 
It may be noted that after identifying and 
shortlisting suitable candidates and conducting 
proper due diligence process, the Company 
appointed Ms. Sujatha Mohan (DIN: 10743626) 
as an Independent Director w.e.f. April 21, 2025 
and the Company has since been in compliance 
with Regulation 17(1) (b) of the Listing 
Regulations.
3.	
Pursuant to expiry of term of Mr. Bobby Parikh 
as Independent Director on March 4, 2025, 
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy, Independent Director 
and having a relevant legal background, was 
appointed as Chairperson of the Committee 
for the time being, subsequently, the Board, at 
its meeting held on April 29, 2025, again re-
constituted the Committee by appointing Mr. 
Hemant Kaul as a Member and Chairperson of 
the Committee who is not the Chairperson of the 
Board or the Company.In terms of Regulation 
24A(2) of the Listing Regulations, Annual 
Secretarial Compliance Report with respect to 
all applicable compliances under regulations and 
circulars / guidelines issued by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India from M/s. Mehta 
& Mehta, Practicing Company Secretaries in 
prescribed format for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025 has been submitted to the stock 
exchanges.
A copy of the secretarial audit report for the financial 
year 2024-25 issued to Niwas Housing Finance 
Private Limited (Erstwhile IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited), a material unlisted subsidiary of the 
Company is attached as Annexure II to the Board’s 
Report.
Pursuant to Regulation 24A of Listing Regulations, 
the Board of Directors have recommended to the 
shareholders for approval, the appointment of 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Practicing Company Secretaries 
as Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a term of 
five (5) consecutive years, from 2025-26 to 2029-30.
Cost record and cost audit
Maintenance of cost records and requirements of cost 
audit as prescribed under the provisions of section 
148(1) of the Act is not applicable for the business 
activities carried out by the Company.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY / VIGIL MECHANISM
In terms of Section 177(9) and Section 177(10) of 
the Act and the Listing Regulations, the Board of 
Directors adopted a Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil 
Mechanism, inter-alia to provide a mechanism for 
internal stakeholders of the Company and external 
stakeholders including vendors, suppliers, consultants, 
agents including the Directors, employees of the 
Company to approach the Audit Committee of the 
Company and to report genuine concerns related 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
87
Annual Report 2024-25
86
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
to unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud, 
violation of any applicable laws, codes of conduct or 
policies of the Company, any suspected misconduct/ 
illegal/ improper conduct and leak or suspected 
leak of unpublished price sensitive information. The 
Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism provides 
for adequate safeguards against victimization of 
stakeholder who report genuine concerns under the 
mechanism.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
approved amendment to Whistle Blower Policy / 
Vigil Mechanism broadening the scope of the policy. 
The Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism is 
uploaded on the website of the Company and can 
be accessed at Investors corner - IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited . More details have been provided in 
the Corporate Governance Report which is annexed 
to and forms an integral part of this Board’s Report.
During the year, the Company has received 3 (three) 
whistle blower complaints. All the three cases were 
investigated and appropriate actions were taken.
The Audit Committee is apprised of the vigil 
mechanism on a periodic basis. During the year, 
no person was denied access to the Chairperson 
of the Audit Committee. A quarterly report on the 
whistle blower complaints is placed before the Audit 
Committee for its review.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY	
In terms of Section 135 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 (“CSR Rules”), the Board of Directors 
have constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Committee and in light of your Company’s 
philosophy of being a responsible corporate citizen, 
the Board of Directors adopted a CSR Policy 
which lays down the principles and mechanism for 
undertaking various projects / programs as part of 
Company’s CSR activities. During the year under 
review, the Company was not required to spend any 
amount towards CSR activities as prescribed under 
Section 135 of the Act and hence, disclosure pursuant 
to Section 134(3)(o) of the Act is not applicable to 
the Company.
During the year under review, the Board of 
Directors approved amendment to Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy to include “promotion of 
sports” as one of the CSR project/activity and other 
regulatory amendments in line with the Act. Details 
of the composition of the CSR Committee and the 
CSR Policy have been provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report which is annexed to and forms 
an integral part of this Board’s Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Your Company has in place a mechanism to 
identify, assess, monitor and mitigate various risks 
associated with the business of the Company. Major 
risks identified by the business and functions, if any, 
are systematically addressed through mitigating 
actions on a continuing basis. The Board of Directors 
have adopted a Risk Management Framework and 
Policy which inter-alia integrates various elements 
of risk management into a unified enterprise-wide 
policy.
The Risk Management Committee of the Company 
has not identified any elements of risk which in their 
opinion may threaten the existence of your Company. 
Details of the risks and concerns relevant to the 
Company are discussed in detail in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report which forms part of 
the Annual Report. 
The Board of Directors approved amendment to Risk 
Management Framework of the Company with the 
intention to make it more robust and to meet the 
requirement of the today’s business environment. 
In compliance with the RBI Directions, the Board 
of Directors, on the basis recommendation of Risk 
Management Committee, amended the ICAAP 
Policy and Framework with the objective of ensuring 
availability of adequate capital to support all risks in 
business as also to enable effective risk management 
system in the Company.
The Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) oversees and 
strengthens the risk management function of 
the Company. The CRO is invited to participate 
in meetings of the Board, Audit Committee, 
Asset Liability Committee and Risk Management 
Committee. The CRO along with members of the 
Senior Management apprises the Risk Management 
Committee and the Board on various aspects of risk 
assessment, including the process of identifying and 
evaluating risks, key risks, changes in risk ratings, 
the root cause of risks and their impact, key risk 
indicators, mitigation strategies, and action taken to 
manage and reduce these risks.
Details of the Risk Management Framework and Policy 
have been provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report which is annexed to and forms an integral 
part of this Board’s Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL / INTERNAL FINANCIAL 
CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY
Your 
Company’s 
well-defined 
organizational 
structure 
supported 
by 
documented 
policies, 
defined authority matrix and robust internal controls 
ensuring efficiency of operations, compliance with 
internal system / policies and applicable laws. The 
internal control system / policies of your Company 
are further strengthened with internal audits, regular 
management reviews and external audits. It provides 
reasonable assurance in respect of financial and 
operational information, compliance with applicable 
statutes, safeguarding of assets of the Company, 
prevention and detection of frauds, accuracy and 
completeness of accounting records and also 
ensuring compliance with the Company’s policies. 
The Audit Committee continuously monitors the 
effectiveness of the internal controls system and 
policies of your Company. The Risk Management 
Committee and the Audit Committee periodically 
review various risks associated with the business of 
the Company along with risk mitigants and ensure 
that they have an integrated view of risks faced by 
the Company. The Board of Directors believes that 
internal control systems are commensurate with the 
nature, size and complexity of Company’s operations.
The Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors of 
the Company have also confirmed that the internal 
financial control framework is operating effectively.
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors 
have not reported any instances of fraud in the 
Company committed by officers or employees of 
the Company to the Audit Committee under Section 
143(12) of the Act.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Company has in place an robust Internal Audit 
Framework to monitor the efficacy of internal 
controls with the objective of providing to the 
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, an 
independent and reasonable assurance on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
management, 
internal 
control 
and 
governance 
processes. The framework is commensurate with the 
nature of the business, size, scale and complexity of 
its operations with a Risk Based Internal Audit (RBIA) 
approach.
The Company has implemented a RBIA Programme 
in accordance with the requirements of RBI circular 
dated February 03, 2021. The Internal audit plan is 
approved by the Audit Committee and internal audits 
are undertaken on a periodic basis to independently 
validate the existing controls. Internal Audit Reports 
are regularly reviewed by the management and 
corrective action is initiated to strengthen controls 
and enhance the effectiveness of existing systems. 
Significant audit observations, if any, are presented 
to the Audit Committee along with the status of 
management’s action plans and the implementation 
status of audit recommendations.
Separate meetings between the Head Internal 
Auditor and the Audit Committee 
Separate meetings between the Heads Internal 
Auditor and the Audit Committee, without the 
presence of Management, were enabled to facilitate 
independent and transparent discussion amongst 
them. The meetings were held on April 24, 2024, 
September 18, 2024, December 18, 2024, March 12, 
2025 and June 17, 2025.
CEO & CFO CERTIFICATE
Compliance Certificate in terms of Regulation 17(8) 
of the Listing Regulations on the audited financial 
statements and other matters prescribed therein, 
submitted to the Board of Directors by the CEO and 
CFO of the Company, for financial year ended March 
31, 2025, is enclosed herewith at Annexure IV to this 
Board’s Report. 
CONTRACTS / ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED 
PARTIES AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION 
POLICY
During the financial year under review, all transactions 
entered into by the Company with related parties 
were in ordinary course of business and on arm’s 
length basis and were not considered material as per 
the provisions of Section 188 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014. Hence, disclosure in Form AOC-2 under 
Section 134(3) (h) of the Act, read with the Rule 8 
of the Companies (Accounts of Companies) Rules, 
2014, is not applicable.
Further during the year under review, your company 
has amended the Related Party Transaction Policy as 
per the requirements of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024. 
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is obtained 
for all Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) including 
omnibus approval for transactions which are of a 
repetitive nature and entered into in the ordinary 
course of business and at arm’s length in accordance 
with the Policy on Related Party Transactions of 
the Company. A statement on RPTs specifying the 
details of the transactions pursuant to each omnibus 
approval granted, is placed on a quarterly basis for 
review by the Audit Committee.
Pursuant to Regulation 23(9) of Listing Regulations, 
disclosures of RPTs are submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges on a half-yearly basis and published on the 
Company’s website at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner#investor-relations. 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
89
Annual Report 2024-25
88
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Disclosure of the related party transactions as 
required under Ind AS - 24 are reported in Note 33 
of the audited standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
Details of the Related Party Transaction Policy have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report.
ANNUAL RETURN
In terms of Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92(3) of 
the Act read with the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, the Annual Return as 
at financial year ended March 31, 2025 in prescribed 
form No. MGT-7 is available on the website of the 
Company 
at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-services. 
DISCLOSURES 
UNDER 
SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION & REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
Your Company is committed to create an environment 
in which all individuals are treated with respect and 
dignity and promote a gender sensitive and safe work 
environment. Accordingly, the Board of Directors 
adopted a Care & Dignity Policy and also constituted 
an Internal Complaints Committee, in compliance 
with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & 
Redressal) Act, 2013.
Considering geographic diversification across the 
country and increase in number of employees, the 
Board of Directors have constituted Regional Internal 
Complaints Committees for North, West, East and 
South regions.
To ensure that all the employees are sensitized 
regarding issues of sexual harassment, the Company 
conducts online POSH trainings through the internal 
e-learning platform and knowledge community 
sessions.
Disclosures as required under Rule 8(5) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, as stated below:
(a)	 number of complaints of sexual harassment 
received in the year: Nil
(b)	 number of complaints disposed off during the 
year: Nil
(c)	 number of cases pending for more than ninety 
days: Nil
INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND 
(IEPF)
Details of unclaimed dividends and equity shares 
which are transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund and Investor Education and 
Protection Fund authority are mentioned in the 
General Shareholders’ Information which forms a 
part of the Corporate Governance Report.
OTHER DISCLOSURES
During the year under review, there has been no 
change in the nature of business of your Company.
No material changes and commitments affecting the 
financial position of your Company have occurred 
between the end of year under review and date of 
this Board’s Report except sale of material subsidiary 
of the Company viz. Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited as stated above under para “subsidiary 
companies and financial performance” in the Board’s 
Report.
During the year under review, no orders have been 
passed against your Company by any regulator(s) or 
court(s) or tribunal(s) which would impact the going 
concern status and / or the future operations of your 
Company.
During the year under review, your Company, in the 
capacity of a financial creditor, has not filed petitions 
before the National Company Law Tribunal under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 for recovery 
of outstanding loans against its customers, being 
corporate debtors.
During the year under review, there has been no 
instance of one-time settlement with any Bank(s) or 
Financial Institution(s).
The Company has complied with the applicable 
provisions relating to Maternity Benefits Act, 1961.
CONSERVATION 
OF 
ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION 
AND 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The operations of the Company are not energy 
intensive nor does they require adoption of specific 
technology and hence information in terms of Section 
134(3)(m) of the Act read with the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is not applicable to the 
Company. The Company has, however, implemented 
various energy conservation measures across all its 
functions which are highlighted in the BRSR forming 
part of this Report. 
During the year under review, your Company did not 
have any foreign exchange earnings and did not incur 
any foreign currency expenditure (Previous year 
foreign exchange expenditure was ` 12.28 crore).
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
To the best of the knowledge and belief and according 
to the information and explanations obtained by 
them, pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)
(c) read with Section 134(5) of the Act, the Directors 
hereby confirm that:
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts for 
the year ended March 31, 2025, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed and 
no material departures have been made from the 
same;
b)	
they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
so as to give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company at the end of the financial 
year and of the profits of the Company for that 
year;
c)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
d)	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
e)	
they have laid down internal financial controls 
to be followed by the Company and that such 
internal financial controls are adequate and were 
operating effectively; and
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems were adequate and 
operating effectively during the year ended 
March 31, 2025.
APPRECIATION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Directors take this opportunity to express their 
appreciation to all stakeholders of the Company 
including the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India, the 
National Housing Bank, the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
the Government of India and other Regulatory 
Authorities, the BSE Limited, the National Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited, 
the 
Depositories, 
Bankers, Financial Institutions, Debenture Trustees, 
Credit Rating Agencies, Members, Employees and 
Customers of the Company for their continued 
support and trust.
By the Order of the Board of Directors 
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Naina Krishna Murthy 
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114 
Place: Mumbai 
Date: August 13, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
91
Annual Report 2024-25
90
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ANNEXURE I
The Members, 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED 
Office No- 301, Wing A, CTS No 477 
Silver Utopia, Chakala Road, 
Opposite Proctor and Gamble, Andheri (E),  
Sahargaon, Mumbai- India 400099		
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and 
the adherence to good corporate practices by 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (hereinafter called 
“the Company”). Secretarial audit was conducted 
in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conduct I statutory 
compliance and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minutes books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorised representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that 
in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
here under and also that the Company has proper 
Board processes and compliance mechanism in 
place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2025, according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the 
rules made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws Framed there under;
(iv)	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
and the rules and regulations made there under 
to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, 
Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings; 
FORM MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025 
{Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014}
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines 
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’);
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015; 
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021;
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Registrars to an Issue and Share 
Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing 
with client (during the period under 
review not applicable to the Company);
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2021 (during the period under review not 
applicable to the Company);
(i)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 
2018 (during the period under review not 
applicable to the Company);
(j)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 
2021;
(vi) 	
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Company – Scale Based 
Regulation) Directions, 2023
(vi)	
Master Direction - Know Your Customer (KYC) 
Direction, 2016
(vii)	
Reserve Bank of India (Information Technology 
Governance, Risk, Controls and Assurance 
Practices) Directions, 2023
(viii)	 Master 
Circular 
– 
Non-Banking 
Financial 
Companies – Corporate Governance (Reserve 
Bank) Directions, 2015
(ix)	
Insurance 
Regulatory 
and 
Development 
Authority of India (“IRDAI”) (Registration of 
Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015
(x)	
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Securitisation of Standard Assets) Directions, 
2021
(xi)	
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021
(xii)	
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Regulatory 
Framework 
for 
Microfinance 
Loans) Directions, 2022
(xiii)	 Master Direction on Treatment of Wilful 
Defaulters and Large Defaulters
(xiv)	 Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India 
(Internal Ombudsman for Regulated Entities) 
Directions, 2023
(xv)	
Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India 
(Outsourcing 
of 
Information 
Technology 
Services) Directions
(xvi)	 Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Filing 
of Supervisory Returns) Directions, 2024;
(xvii)	 Reserve Bank of India’s Circular on Compliance 
Function and Role of Chief Compliance Officer 
(CCO) dated April 11, 2022
(xviii)	Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Fraud 
Risk Management in NBFCs) Directions, 2024
We have examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India;
(ii)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
During the period under review the Company 
has complied with the provisions of Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines etc except:
1.	
As per Secretarial Standard -1, resolutions 
passed by circulation shall be noted at a 
subsequent Meeting of the Board and the 
text thereof with dissent or abstention, if 
any, shall be recorded in the Minutes of such 
Meeting. However, abstention is not noted in 
board meeting. 
2.	
Regulation 17(1) (b) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 prescribes the requirement of having 
at least one-third of the Board of Directors 
as Independent Directors. However, the 
composition of the Board is not duly 
constituted in the absence of requisite 
number of Independent Directors during the 
period March 05, 2025 to March 31, 2025.
3.	
The Company has failed to adhere to 
Regulation 19(2) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 by appointing Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy 
as the Chairperson of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee, effective March 
05, 2025 who is also the Chairperson the 
Board.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted with proper balance of the Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors except for the period starting from March 
05, 2025 upto March 31, 2025 as stated above. The 
changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act.
Adequate notices are given to all Directors to 
schedule the Board / Committee Meetings, agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance to all the Directors. Meetings 
held at shorter notice are in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for 
meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the 
dissenting 
members’ 
views 
are 
captured 
and 
recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems 
and processes in the company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company passed the following special / ordinary 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
93
Annual Report 2024-25
92
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
resolutions which are having a major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. 
a.	
Issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures on 
Private Placement basis.
b.	
Alteration of the Articles of Association of the 
Company.
c.	
Appointment of Mr. Randhir Singh (DIN: 
05353131) as the Whole-Time Director on the 
Board of Directors of the Company designated 
as the Executive Vice Chairman.
d.	
Amendment of Indostar ESOP plan 2018.
e.	
Approval of proposed grant of Stock Options 
equal to or exceeding 1% (one percent) of 
issued capital of the company under Indostar 
ESOP plan 2018 at the time of grant to 
identified employee(s).
f.	
Approve the sale of Indostar Home Finance 
Private Limited, material subsidiary of the 
Company.
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company has transacted the following activities 
through the approval of the Board / Committee 
resolutions which are having major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
a.	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held 
on April 29, 2024 approved the issue of 
Non-Convertible Debentures under private 
placement, in one or more series or tranches, 
for an amount not exceeding ` 6,000 crore 
(rupees Six Thousand Crore).
b.	
The Board of Directors via circular resolution 
dated May 24, 2024 has allotted 10,869,565 
(Ten Million Eight Hundred and Sixty-Nine 
Thousand 
Five 
Hundred 
and 
Sixty-Five) 
convertible warrants at a price of ` 184 (Indian 
Rupees One Hundred and Eighty-Four) per 
Warrant, each convertible into or exchangeable 
for 1 (one) Equity Share of the Company to 
Florintree, a limited liability partnership.
c.	
The Debt – Public Issue Committee of board 
of directors on September 25, 2024 has 
allotted 26,55,854 (Twenty-Six Lakhs Fifty-
Five Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Four) 
non- convertible debentures of the face value 
of ` 1,000 each.
d.	
The Board of Directors via circular resolution 
dated November 25, 2024 has allotted 
13,949,323 (Thirteen Million Nine Hundred 
and Forty-Nine Thousand Three Hundred and 
Twenty-Three) convertible warrants at a price 
of ` 184 (Indian Rupees One Hundred and 
Eighty-Four) per Warrant, each convertible 
into or exchangeable for 1 (one) Equity Share 
of the Company to BCP V Multiple Holdings 
Pte Ltd, a Promoter of the company.
e.	
The 
borrowing 
committee 
has 
allotted 
following non-convertible debentures during 
the period under review-
Sr. 
No.
Date of Allotment
Number of non-
convertible 
debentures allotted 
of face value  
` 1,00,000/- 
(Rupee One Lakh 
only)
1
November 27, 2024
14,000
2
December 26, 2024
20,000
3
January 16, 2025
20,000
4
February 27, 2025
35,000
f.	
The Company allotted following ESOP under 
Indostar ESOP Plan 2016 and ESOP Plan 2018-
Sr. 
No.
Date of Allotment
Number of Equity 
Shares allotted of 
face value ` 10/- 
(Rupee Ten only)
1
November 26, 2024
3,064
2
December 18, 2024 
4,775
3
December 23, 2024
1,163
4
February 10, 2025 
2,000
5
March 05, 2025 
1,250
6
March 25, 2025
5,900
For Mehta & Mehta 
Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
Alifya Sapatwala 
ACS No.: 24091
CP No.: 24895
PR No.: 3686/2023
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 13, 2025
UDIN: A024091G001000880
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of 
even date which is annexed as ‘ANNEXURE A’ and 
forms an integral part of this report.
Annexure A
To, 
The Members, 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED 
Office No- 301, Wing A, CTS No 477 
Silver Utopia, Chakala Road, 
Opposite Proctor and Gamble, Andheri (E),  
Sahargaon, Mumbai- India 400099
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1)	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to 
ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices 
we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the 
Company.
4)	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules 
and regulations and happening of events etc.
5)	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6)	
As regard the books, papers, forms, reports and returns filed by the Company under the provisions referred 
to in points (vi) to (x) of our Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3 the adherence and compliance to the 
requirements of the said regulations is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to 
checking the execution and timeliness of the filing of various forms, reports, returns and documents that 
need to be filed by the Company with various authorities under the said regulations. We have not verified 
the correctness and coverage of the contents of such forms, reports, returns and documents. 
7)	
The secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Mehta & Mehta 
Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
Alifya Sapatwala
ACS No.: 24091
CP No.: 24895
PR No.: 3686/2023
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 13, 2025
UDIN: A024091G001000880
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
95
Annual Report 2024-25
94
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ANNEXURE II
To, 
The Members, 
NIWAS HOUSING FINANCE PRIVATE LIMITED 
(Previously Known as: IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited) 
CIN: U65990MH2016PTC271587 
Regd Off: Unit No.305,3rd Floor, Wing 2/E,  
Corporate Avenue Andheri- Ghatkopar Link Road,  
Chakala, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400093
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by NIWAS 
HOUSING FINANCE PRIVATE LIMITED (herein 
after called the “Company”) for the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025. Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that 
in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and, subject to our comments 
herein after, compliance-mechanism in place to the 
extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2025 according to the relevant & applicable 
provisions of:
1.	
The Companies Act, 2013(“the Act”) and the 
rules made there under;
2.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(“SCRA”) and the rules made there under (Not 
Applicable during the Audit Period)
FORM NO.MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025 
[Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
3.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws framed there under;
4.	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
and the rules and regulations made there under 
to the extent of Indirect Foreign Investment.
5.	
The 
following 
Regulations 
and 
Guidelines 
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”) to the 
extent applicable: -
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; (Not 
applicable during the Audit Period)
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosures 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015; (To the 
extent applicable)
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015;
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2018; 
(Not 
applicable during the Audit Period)
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 as amended; (Not 
applicable during the Audit Period)
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021 as amended;
g)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Debenture Trustee) Regulation, 1993
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993; (Not applicable 
during the Audit Period)
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable during the Audit 
Period)
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; 
(Not applicable during the Audit Period)
6.	
Based on the representations made by the 
Company and its officers and our verification 
of the relevant records on test check basis, the 
Company has adequate systems and process 
in place for compliance with the following laws 
applicable specifically to the Company:
a)	
The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 as 
applicable to Housing Finance Companies;
b)	
Master Direction – Non-Banking Financial 
Company – Housing Finance Company 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2021 
c)	
Master Direction on Information Technology 
Governance, Risk, Controls and Assurance 
Practices;
d)	
Master Direction - Know Your Customer 
(KYC) Direction, 2016;
e)	
The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002 and the Rules made thereunder;
f)	
Various Circulars, Notifications, Directions, 
Guidelines, Master Circulars issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India/National Housing 
Bank from time to time in respect of Non 
- Deposit taking Housing Finance Company 
to the extent applicable.
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the following:
i.	
Secretarial Standards with regard to Meetings of 
Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings 
(SS-2) issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
ii.	
The Listing Agreement entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited. 
Other Statutes, Acts, Laws, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines and Standards as applicable to the 
Company are given below:
(i)	 Labour Laws and other incidental laws related 
to employees appointed by the Company 
either on its payroll or on contract basis, as 
related to wages, gratuity, provident fund, ESIC, 
compensation etc.;
(ii)	 Stamp Acts and Registration Acts of respective 
states;
(iii)	 Acts as prescribed under Direct Tax and Indirect 
Tax;
(iv)	 Labour Welfare Acts of respective states;
(v)	 Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013; and
(vi)	 Such other Local laws as applicable to the 
Company and its offices/ branches.
We further report that: 
1.	
During the period under review the Board of 
Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Director 
and Non-Executive Directors on the Board of 
Directors of the Company, except regarding 
absence of a women director who was appointed 
during the period under review. The changes in 
the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act.
2.	
Adequate notice were given to all Directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent in compliance 
with the provisions of the Act and Rules made 
there under and Secretarial Standards on Board 
Meetings, and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for 
meaningful participation at the meeting.
3.	
Majority decisions were carried out through 
unanimous approval and no dissenting views 
were observed while reviewing the minutes.
We further report that, subject to our observations 
herein before, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the 
size and operations of the Company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, circulars, notifications, directions and 
guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period:
a)	
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy (DIN 01216114) was 
appointed 
as 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director of the Company, for a term of 5 (five) 
consecutive years, commencing from April 22, 
2024 to April 21, 2029. The said appointment 
was also approved by the members of the 
Company at their Meeting held on August 20, 
2024.
b)	
Mr. Munish Dayal has resigned from the position 
of Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of 
the Company with effect from July 01, 2024.
c)	
Member of the Company at its Extraordinary 
General Meeting (“EGM”) held on August 20, 
2024 considered and approved change of name 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
97
Annual Report 2024-25
96
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
of the Company from “IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited” to “Niwas Housing Finance 
Private Limited”
d)	
Members of the Company at its 9th Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) held on September 13, 
2024 inter-alia, approved appointment of Kirtane 
and Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants, (Firm 
Reg No.: 105215W/W100057) as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a period of three 
years commencing from the conclusion of the 
ensuing 9th AGM till the conclusion of 12th AGM 
of the Company.
e)	
Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting 
held on September 19, 2024 accorded its consent 
for the execution, delivery and performance by 
the Company of the Share Purchase Agreement 
(“SPA”) 
amongst 
the 
Company, 
Indostar 
Capital 
Finance 
Limited 
(‘ICFL”), 
holding 
company of the Company and Wiktopeend B.V. 
(the “Purchaser”), wherein the Purchaser has 
agreed to purchase 45,00,00,000 (Forty Five 
Crores) equity shares of the Company as held 
by ICFL along with shares held by its nominee 
shareholders. Accordingly, the Company had 
filed an application with Reserve Bank of India 
for change in management and control.
f)	
The Company has approved appointment of 
Mr. Devdutt Marathe (DIN: 10294876) as an 
additional 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director of the Company for a term of 3 years 
w.e.f October 30, 2024 to October 29, 2027.
g)	
Board of Directors of the Company at its 
Meeting held on January 17, 2025, noted 
resignation of Ms. Nidhi Sadani from the position 
of Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
of the Company w.e.f. close of business hours 
of January 31, 2025 and approved appointment 
of Mr. Panth Joshi as Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer of the Company to be 
effective from February 01, 2025
Place: Mumbai 
Date: July 17, 2025
H Choudhary & Associates 
(Practicing Company Secretaries) 
CS Harnatharam Choudhary 
Proprietor 
MembershipNo:F8274 
CPNo.:9369 
UDIN: F008274G000801385
ANNEXURE III
DISCLOSURES IN TERMS OF SUB-SECTION 12 OF SECTION 197 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH 
RULE 5(1) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) 
RULES, 2014 FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Requirement
Disclosure
1.
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director 
to the median remuneration of the employees 
of the Company for the financial year
Name of Director
Ratio
Mr. Bobby Parikh
-
Mr. Hemant Kaul
-
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
-
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
-
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja*
-
Mr. Aditya Joshi
-
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
-
Mr. Randhir Singh#
56.96
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan^
48.46
2.
The percentage increase in remuneration of 
each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 
Executive Officer and Company Secretary in 
the financial year
Name of Director / CEO / CFO/ CS
Percentage Increase in their 
remuneration 
during 
the 
financial year under review
Mr. Bobby Parikh
-
Mr. Hemant Kaul
-
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy 
-
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
-
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja*
-
Mr. Aditya Joshi
-
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
-
Mr. Randhir Singh#
-
Mr. Jayesh Jain$
-
Ms. Shikha Jain (CS)
11%
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan (CEO)^
28%
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker (CFO)&
12%
3.
The percentage increase in the median 
remuneration of employees in the financial 
year
4%
4.
Number of permanent employees on the rolls 
of Company at the end of financial year
4,304
5.
Average percentile increases already made 
in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial 
year and its comparison with the percentile 
increase in the managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances for increase in 
the managerial remuneration
The average salaries of employees other than managerial personnel, 
has increased by 3.61% as compared to average salaries paid in the 
financial year 2023-24.
There has been an average increase in the Managerial Remuneration 
by 41.61% for the financial year 2024-25 on account of increase in 
number of managerial personnel.
6.
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per 
Remuneration Policy of the Company
It is affirmed that remuneration paid is as per the Remuneration Policy 
of the Company.
Note:
*Ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from March 03, 2025
#Appointed as Whole-time Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman of the Company with effect from July 22, 2024 
and re-designated and appointed as Managing Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 11, 2025.
^Ceased to be Whole-time Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from May 11, 2025. 
$Appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the Company with effect from March 03, 2025. 
&Ceased to be Chief Financial Officer of the Company with effect from March 03, 2025.
Further, sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Independent Directors has not been included for calculation of remuneration 
paid to them
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
99
Annual Report 2024-25
98
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ANNEXURE IV
CEO AND CFO COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
To 
The Board of Directors 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
We, Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Chief Executive Officer and Jayesh Jain, Chief Financial Officer hereby certify that:
A. 	 we have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the financial year ended March 31, 
2025, and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
(1) 	 these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading;
(2) 	these statements together present a true and fair view of the listed entity’s affairs and are in compliance 
with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations. 
B. 	 There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the listed entity during 
the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the listed entity’s code of conduct.
C. 	 We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that 
we have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the listed entity pertaining to financial 
reporting and we have disclosed to the auditors and the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or 
operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose 
to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee 
(1) 	 significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
(2) 	significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the 
notes to the financial statements; and 
(3) 	instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of 
the management or an employee having a significant role in the listed entity’s internal control system 
over financial reporting.
	
Karthikeyan Srinivasan	
Jayesh Jain 
	
Chief Executive Officer	
 Chief Financial Officer
Date: April 29, 2025
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 	
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the listed entity
L65100MH2009PLC268160
2.
Name of the listed entity
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited  (referred to 
as ‘IndoStar’, ‘ICFL’, or ‘the Company’)
3.
Year of incorporation
July 21, 2009
4.
Registered office address
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No 301-A, 
Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400 099
5.
Corporate address
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No 301-A, 
Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400 099
6.
E-mail
icf.secretarial@indostarcapital.com
7.
Telephone
022-4315 7000
8.
Website
www.indostarcapital.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
BSE Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
11.
Paid-up capital
` 1,36,09,74,470/-
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Ms. Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Phone: 022 – 4315 7039
Email id: sjain4@indostarcapital.com
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together)
The disclosures presented in this report pertain 
solely to the Company and have been provided 
on a standalone basis
14.
Name of assurance provider
Not applicable for 2024-25
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Not applicable for 2024-25
II.	
Products/services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Description of main activity
Description of business activity
% of turnover of the entity
1
Financial and Insurance Service
Other financial activities
100%
17.	
Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover)
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total turnover 
contributed
1
Non-banking financial company involved in 
financing and related services 
649
100%
III.	 Operations
	
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
NA
446
446
International
NA
NA
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
101
Annual Report 2024-25
100
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total 
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.
Other than permanent (E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.
Total differently abled workers (D + E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5.
Other than permanent (G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
6.
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
	
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
8
1
12.50%
Key Management Personnel
4
1
25.00%
	
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
2024-25 
(Turnover rate in 
current FY)
2023-24  
(Turnover rate in 
previous FY)
2022-23 
(Turnover rate in 
the year prior to the 
previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent employees 35.65%
18.91% 35.04% 29.25%
20.37%
28.87% 40.74%
44.75% 40.90%
Permanent workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
	
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding/
subsidiary/associate 
companies/joint ventures (A) 
Indicate whether 
holding/subsidiary/
associate/joint venture 
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity 
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate 
in the Business 
Responsibility 
initiatives of the 
listed entity?  
(Yes/No) 
1
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd. Holding company
56.20%
No
2
Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited (Formerly ‘IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited’)^
Wholly-owned subsidiary
100%
Yes
3
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private 
Limited
Wholly-owned subsidiary
100%
No*
	
*Presently, IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited does not have any business and is in process 
of closing of Alternate Investment Funds being managed by it.
	
^ Ceased to be the subsidiary of the Company w.e.f. July 17, 2025
	
CSR Details
	
24.	  i.	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: No*
	
	
ii.	
Turnover (` in lakhs): ` 1,41,241.55
	
	
iii.	
Net worth (` in lakhs): ` 3,41,101.18
	
*The Company was not required to spend any amount on CSR activities during the financial year 
2024-25 as the Company had average net losses during the preceding three financial years.
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.	
Number of locations
	
	
Locations
Number
National (No. of states)
23
International (No. of countries)
NA
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
Nil. The Company is not engaged in any export-related activities.
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
The Company, as a non-banking financial institution, primarily focusses on retail lending with key areas, 
including vehicle finance, housing finance, corporate lending, and SME finance. The customer segments 
vary across product categories, as outlined below:
	
Vehicle Finance: 
	
The Company primarily caters to transport operators, particularly Small Road Transport Operators 
(SRTOs), and provides financing solutions for farm equipment, two-wheelers, four-wheelers, and 
construction vehicles. It aims to become the preferred lender for this customer base by offering 
competitive credit facilities that meet their needs while managing associated risks and tapping into 
the ongoing demand in this space. 
	
Housing Finance: 
	
Through its former wholly-owned subsidiary, Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (NHFPL) (erstwhile 
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited), a non-deposit taking housing finance company registered 
with the National Housing Bank (NHB), the Company served customers in Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns 
as well as peripheral urban regions. The focus was on individuals looking to purchase or construct 
residential properties for self-use. 
	
SME Finance: 
	
The SME lending business supports small and medium-sized enterprises in meeting their business 
funding requirements, which may include working capital, business expansion or other commercial 
needs. These loans are typically secured against self-occupied residential or commercial property. 
The key clientele includes traders, manufacturers, professionals, and service-based businesses. A 
considerable share of disbursements under this segment qualifies as Priority Sector Lending (PSL). 
	
Corporate Lending: 
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited extends tailored structured finance solutions to mid-sized and large 
corporates. Lending activities span multiple sectors such as real estate, steel, cement, pharmaceuticals, 
FMCG, financial services, media and entertainment, and dairy, among others, addressing project funding 
and other business requirements.
	
Micro LAP: 
	
The Micro LAP product primarily serves small-scale traders, manufacturers, and service providers in 
Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns, offering fully secured, small-ticket loans to meet working capital, business 
expansion, and other productive needs. Its customers typically seek collateral-backed credit with 
manageable tenures and ticket sizes, ensuring strong repayment discipline and risk coverage.
IV.	 Employees
	
20.	 Details as at the end of financial year
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total 
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
4,304
4,155 
96.54 
149 
3.46 
2.
Other than permanent (E)
132
130 
98.48 
2 
1.52 
3.
Total employees (D + E)
4,436
4,285 
96.60 
151
3.40 
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.
Other than permanent (G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.
Total workers (F + G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
As a Company operating in the financial services sector, there is no requirement to employ workers 
for its business operations.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
103
Annual Report 2024-25
102
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
2.
Data Privacy and 
Cybersecurity
Risk
Increasing digitisation raises 
exposure to cyber threats, 
including 
ransomware, 
phishing, and data breaches.
Investment in cybersecurity 
infrastructure, 
periodic 
penetration 
testing, 
staff 
training, access controls, and 
threat monitoring.
Negative
3.
Employee 
Well-being 
and Workplace 
Culture
Opportunity A positive work environment 
drives productivity, reduces 
attrition, and supports long-
term talent retention.
-
Positive
4.
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Opportunity CSR enhances societal impact 
and contributes to reputation-
building, especially in core 
sectors like healthcare and 
education.
-
Positive
5.
Branding and 
Reputation
Opportunity A strong reputation enhances 
investor 
confidence 
and 
customer loyalty.
-
Positive
6.
Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion 
(DEI)
Opportunity DEI 
drives 
innovation, 
broadens perspectives, and 
supports social equity within 
the workplace.
-
Positive
7.
Regulatory 
Compliance
Risk
Frequent regulatory updates 
from RBI, SEBI, and MCA 
require 
strong 
compliance 
systems to avoid penalties 
and reputational damage.
Real-time 
compliance 
tracking, 
periodic 
audits, 
internal 
training, 
and 
strengthened 
internal 
controls.
Negative
8.
Financial 
Inclusion and 
Access to Credit
Opportunity Reaching 
underserved 
segments aligns with national 
goals and opens new growth 
opportunities.
-
Positive
9.
Responsible 
Lending 
Practices
Risk
Poor risk assessment and 
aggressive lending may lead 
to high NPAs and reputational 
fallout.
Strengthening 
credit 
policies, borrower education, 
grievance 
redressal 
systems, and early warning 
mechanisms.
Negative
10. Sustainable and 
Responsible 
Finance
Opportunity Increasing 
preference 
for 
ESG-compliant 
financial 
products 
demands 
a 
responsible 
approach 
to 
capital allocation.
-
Positive
11.
Digital 
Transformation 
and FinTech 
Integration
Opportunity Rapid digitisation is reshaping 
NBFCs. 
Seamless 
digital 
services improve customer 
experience and operational 
efficiency.
-
Positive
VI.	 Transparency and disclosures compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint 
was received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
2024-25  
(Current financial year)
2023-24  
(Previous financial year)
(If yes, then 
provide a 
weblink to 
the grievance 
redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
with 
pending 
resolution 
at the close 
of the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
with 
pending 
resolution 
at the close 
of the year
Remarks
Communities
https://www.
indostarcapital.
com/investor-
contact/
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
-
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Shareholders
-
1
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Employees 
and workers
-
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Customers 
https://www.
indostarcapital.
com/contact-us
1,654
8
The complaints 
reflect 
pendency as 
these were 
under the 
process of 
resolution at 
the time of 
the quarter 
end and were 
resolved in the 
subsequent 
month.
640
19
The complaints 
reflect 
pendency as 
these were 
under the 
process of 
resolution at 
the time of 
the quarter 
end and were 
resolved in the 
subsequent 
month.
Value chain 
partners
-
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Other (please 
specify)
-
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues.
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
1.
Corporate 
Governance and 
Ethics
Opportunity Strong governance, ethical 
conduct, and transparency 
help sustain stakeholder trust 
and reduce business risks.
-
Positive
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
105
Annual Report 2024-25
104
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Sr. 
No.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Principle 5:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/ICF_
Whistleblower-Policy_Final.pdf 
Principle 6:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/
ICFL_Code-of-Conduct-Policy_Final.pdf 
Principle 7:
NA
Principle 8:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/
ICFL_Code-of-Conduct-Policy_Final.pdf 
Principle 9:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/
ICFL_Code-of-Conduct-Policy_Final.pdf
https://www.indostarcapital.com/privacy-policy/
2
Whether the entity has translated 
the policy into procedures. (Ye/No)
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
3
Do the enlisted policies extend to 
your value chain partners? (Yes/No)
No. However, the Company promotes involvement of its business 
associates and representatives in its Business Responsibility 
initiatives.
4
Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international codes/certifications/
labels/ 
standards 
(e.g. 
Forest 
Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, 
Rainforest 
Alliance, 
Trustees) 
standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
NA
5
Specific 
commitments, 
goals 
and targets set by the entity with 
defined timelines, if any.
The Company considers well-defined commitments crucial for 
monitoring its alignment with the principles outlined in the National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC). Sustainability 
remains a key area of focus, supported by various short- and 
medium-term measures already underway. Recognising the value of 
setting structured goals, the Company plans to define measurable 
targets in upcoming reporting periods. Efforts are also being made 
to evaluate the environmental and social impacts of its operations, 
with a continued emphasis on embedding ESG considerations into 
organisational decision-making.
6
Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals 
and targets along with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
As the Company continues to integrate ESG principles into its 
operations during these initial phases, it anticipates providing a more 
detailed and comprehensive update in future reporting cycles. The 
objective remains to support business growth while aligning with long-
term sustainability goals. In line with this commitment, the Company 
has undertaken the digitisation of various loan approval processes to 
minimise paper usage and has replaced CFLs with energy-efficient 
LED sensor lighting at its corporate office.
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
12. Customer 
Experience and 
Satisfaction
Opportunity Enhancing 
customer 
satisfaction 
builds 
trust, 
promotes 
retention, 
and 
supports 
long-term 
profitability.
-
Positive
13. Risk and Crisis 
Management
Risk
Proactive 
risk 
and 
crisis 
management is crucial to 
maintain business continuity 
amid economic, operational, 
or environmental shocks.
Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) frameworks, scenario 
planning, stress testing, and 
crisis response protocols.
Negative
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Sr. 
No.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes	
1
a. 	 Whether your entity’s policy/
policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
b. 	 Has the policy been approved 
by the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
c. Weblink of the policies, if available Policy Web-page:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner/ 
Principle 1: 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/
ICFL_Code-of-Conduct-Policy_Final.pdf
h t t p s : // w w w . i n d o s t a r c a p i t a l . c o m / w p - c o n t e n t /
uploads/2025/03/Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/
Policy-on-determination-of-materiality-of-events-and-information.pdf
Principle 2:
NA
Principle 3:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/ICF_
Whistleblower-Policy_Final.pdf
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/
Remuneration-Policy.pdf
Principle 4:
https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/
Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
107
Annual Report 2024-25
106
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
11
Has the entity carried out an independent assessment / 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide the name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
All policies and processes undergo periodic 
internal audits and reviews conducted 
within the Company.
12	
If the answer to question (1) above is ‘No’ i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
-
Y
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Y
-
-
Any other reason (please specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial 
year	
	
Segment
Total no of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training and impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programme
Board of Directors
15
Business 
strategy, 
Risk 
Management System, Regulatory 
changes, recent developments in 
operations and IT of the Company, 
new initiatives taken by the 
Company, corporate governance 
and succession planning
100%
Key Managerial Personnel
9
Management 
Training 
at 
IIM 
Mumbai, POSH training, training 
on Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
and Anti Money Laundering Law, 
Health and safety training, training 
on insider trading regulations
100%
Employees other than BOD & KMPs 
15
POSH training, training on Anti-
Bribery and Corruption and Anti 
Money Laundering Law, Health 
and safety training, training on 
Insider Trading Regulations, skill 
up-gradation training
66%
Workers
NA
NA
NA
2.	
Details of fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions, in the financial year, in the following format
	
Kindly refer to the section on non-compliance details under the General Disclosures of the Report on 
Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Sr. 
No.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Governance, leadership and oversight	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
7
Statement by the director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG-related 
challenges, targets and achievements 
We take pride in presenting the BRSR Report of ICFL for FY 2024–25. Backed by a strong liquidity and 
capital position, and a retail-focussed business model, we continue to serve customers through vehicle 
finance, SME finance, corporate lending, and micro LAP.
At IndoStar, we believe that integrating Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors into everyday 
decision-making is critical for long-term sustainability. During the year, we focussed on aligning internal 
policies with evolving ESG regulations, enhancing data systems, and deepening awareness across the 
organisation.
Key ESG achievements include:
•	
Strengthening governance with Board and ESG Working Committee oversight.
•	
Adopting an Anti-Corruption Policy, reinforcing our zero-tolerance stance.
•	
Supporting community initiatives in education, healthcare, sanitation, and women’s empowerment, 
including programmes to train women as commercial drivers and build awareness in legal rights, 
hygiene, and financial literacy.
•	
Extending support to NGOs focussed on dropout reduction, inequity, and psychological well-being.
•	
Prioritising employee welfare through medical and term insurance, wellness seminars, and engagement 
initiatives.
Looking ahead, we aim to further embed ESG principles across business functions, enhance transparency, 
and drive meaningful community impact while remaining committed to responsible growth and sound 
governance.
8
Details of the highest authority 
responsible 
for 
implementing 
and 
overseeing 
the 
Business 
Responsibility policy(ies).
Name: Mr. Randhir Singh
Designation: Managing Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman
DIN: 05353131
Name: Mr. Jayesh Jain
Designation: Chief Financial Officer 
*Chief Financial Officer of the Company is the BR Head as per the 
Company’s Internal Policy. 
9
Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision-making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / 
No). If yes, provide details.
Yes, the Board of Directors have constituted an ESG Working 
Committee with an object to implement and oversee the Business 
Responsibility Policies. The Committee comprises Ms. Shikha Jain, 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer, Mr. Mihir Bhavsar, Chief 
Information Security Officer and Mr. K V Bharadwaj, Chief Credit 
Officer.
10 	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Review undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board /  
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against the above 
policies and follow-up action
All stated policies have been approved by the Board, its Committees, or 
the Senior Management of the Company. These policies are reviewed 
on an annual basis, considering applicable regulatory requirements 
and the review timelines specified within each policy document.
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
The Company ensures compliance with all statutory requirements, as 
and when applicable.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
109
Annual Report 2024-25
108
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Parameter
Metrics
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
c. 
Purchases 
from 
top 
10 
trading houses as % of total 
purchases 
from 
trading 
houses
-
-
Concentration of 
Sales
a. 	 Sales to dealers / distributors 
as % of total sales
-
-
b. 
Number 
of 
dealers 
/ 
distributors to whom sales 
are made
-
-
c. 	 Sales to top 10 dealers / 
distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers / distributors
-
-
Shares of RPT in a. 	 Purchases 
(Purchases 
with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
-
-
b.	
Sales 
(Sales 
to 
related 
parties / Total Sales)
-
-
c. 	 Loans & advances (Loans & 
advances given to related 
parties / Total loans & 
advances)
0%
0%
d.	
Investments 
(Investments 
in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
25%
29%
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.	
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
Nil
Capex
2.	
a. 	 Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (Yes/No)
	
	
No.
	
b. 	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably
	
	
NA
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing 
at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other 
waste.	
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector and is not engaged in any form of manufacturing, 
this indicator is not applicable.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is not applicable to ICFL’s business activities.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
	
None.
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company is committed to conducting its business with honesty, integrity, and ethical standards. With a 
zero-tolerance stance on corruption, it strives to maintain professionalism in all operations and relationships 
across locations. To support this approach, the Company has implemented effective systems to deter and 
address corrupt practices. In line with its core values and in adherence to relevant anti-corruption and 
sanctions laws, the Company has adopted an Anti-Corruption Policy, which is available on its official website 
at: https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/ICF_Anti-Bribery-and-Anti-Corruption-
Policy_Final.pdf
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the KMPS
Nil
Nil
7.	
Details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
NA
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Number of days of accounts payables
NA*
NA*
	
* Considering the nature of business, cost of goods sold/services procured cannot be ascertained and 
hence, the said ratio cannot be computed.
9.	
Open-ness of business
	
Details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with 
loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Concentration of 
Purchases
a. 	 Purchases 
from 
trading 
houses 
as 
% 
of 
total 
purchases
-
-
b. 	 Number of trading houses 
where purchases are made 
from
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
111
Annual Report 2024-25
110
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for current financial year and previous financial year
Benefits
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24  
(Previous financial year)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
NA
Y
100%
NA
Y
Gratuity
100%
NA
Y
100%
NA
Y
ESI
6%
NA
Y
21%
NA
Y
Others – please specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces 
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken 
by the entity in this regard.
	
The shared office spaces where ICFL’s corporate functions are housed are designed to be accessible for 
persons with disabilities. The Company remains fully committed to fostering an inclusive and supportive work 
environment and will proactively implement necessary accessibility measures should such requirements 
emerge in the future.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes. The Company is committed to upholding the principles of equality, dignity, and non-discrimination in 
line with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The Company has adopted an Equal Opportunity 
approach as mentioned in its Code of Conduct, which ensures fair and equitable treatment for all stakeholders, 
including persons with disabilities. Employment decisions are based solely on merit, performance, and 
potential, irrespective of any personal characteristics such as physical or mental disability, gender, caste, 
or background. The policy also promotes a respectful, inclusive, and safe work environment that supports 
freedom of speech and humane working conditions.
	
The Code of Conduct can be accessed through the weblink - https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/
uploads/2025/04/ICFL_Code-of-Conduct-Policy_Final.pdf 
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate 
Male
100%
100%
NA
NA
Female
100%
100%
NA
NA
Total
100%
100%
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No 
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
The employees can write to hr@indostarcapital.com to share 
their grievances. 
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
	
While there are no restrictions in place, employees are presently not affiliated with any employee associations.
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains.
Essential Indicators
1.	
 a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B / A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C / A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D / A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E / A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F / A)
Permanent employees
Male
4,155
4,155
100%
4,155
100%
0
0.00%
4,155
100%
4,155
100%
Female
149
149
100%
149
100%
149
100%
0
0.00%
149
100%
Total
4,304
4,304
100%
4,304
100%
149
3.46%
4,155
96.54%
4,304
100%
Other than permanent employees
Male
130
130
100%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
130
100%
130
100%
Female
2
2
100%
0
0.00%
2
100%
0
0.00%
2
100%
Total
132
132
100%
0
0.00%
2
1.52%
130
98.48%
132
100%
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B / A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C / A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D / A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E / A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F / A)
Permanent workers
Male
4,285
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
151
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
4,436
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than permanent workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format –
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % 
of total revenue of the company
1%
0.57%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
113
Annual Report 2024-25
112
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Fire Drill was conducted to reinforce safety preparedness, collectively engaging over 1,000 employees 
throughout the year.
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
2024-25  
(Current financial year)
2023-24  
(Previous financial year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Health & Safety
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
NA
Working conditions
NA
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and 
on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all their stakeholders.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
	
The Company identifies key stakeholders as individuals, groups, institutions or agencies that are either 
affected by or have an influence on ICFL’s business activities, whether currently or in the future. These 
stakeholders include customers, investors, lenders, government bodies, shareholders, regulatory authorities, 
value chain partners, the Board of Directors, employees, and the wider community.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels 
of 
communication 
(Email, 
SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, 
Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose 
and 
scope 
of 
engagement, 
including 
key 
topics 
and 
concerns 
raised 
during such engagement
Customer
No
Digital platforms and application, 
in-person 
engagement 
at 
branches
Periodic
To achieve customer satisfaction, 
grievances resolution, feedback 
for 
product 
customisation 
and 
customer 
relationship 
management
Shareholders/
Investors
No
Press releases and publications, 
Investor meets, Annual General 
Meeting, 
SMS 
and 
Email 
Communication, Stock exchange 
communication, 
Website 
disclosures, 
Through 
RTA 
(Registrar and Transfer Agent)
Quarterly
To inform about the Company’s 
performance, 
business 
developments, address investor 
queries and general updates
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
2024-25* 
(Current financial year)
2023-24  
(Previous financial year)
Total 
(A)
On health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
%  
(B / A)
No. (C)
%  
(C / A)
No. (E)
%  
(E / D)
No. (F)
%  
(F / D)
Employees
Male
4,155
NR
NR
2,170
52%
2,947
-
-
1,335
45%
Female
149
NR
NR
82
55%
120
-
-
65
54%
Total
4,304
NR
NR
2,252
52%
3,067
-
-
1,400
46%
Workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
2024-25  
(Current financial year)
2023-24  
(Previous financial year)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
4,155
3,301
79.45%
2,947
2,031
69%
Female
149
132
88.59%
120
102
85%
Total
4,304
3,433
79.76%
3,067
2,133
70%
Workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a)	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
b)	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
	
As a financial services organisation, this indicator is not applicable to the Company’s operations. 
However, the Human Resources team remains committed to cultivating a positive and supportive 
workplace environment that prioritises employee well-being.
c)	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
d)	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the Company provides both medical and term insurance coverage to all employees as part of its 
overall benefits programme.
11.	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
IndoStar is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy workplace through a combination of wellness 
initiatives, awareness programs, and preventive health measures. During 2024-25, the Company conducted 
multiple employee-centric sessions, including Stress Management, Personal Growth, and Women’s Health 
awareness, alongside observances such as World No Tobacco Day and International Yoga Day. Additionally, 
health check-up camps including covering eye and dental care, were organised across offices, and a Mock 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
115
Annual Report 2024-25
114
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers in the following format:	
Category
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% 
(B / A)
No. (C)
% 
(C / A)
No. (E)
% 
(E / D)
No. (F)
% 
(F / D)
Employees
Permanent 
4,304 
0
0.00%
4,304 100.00% 3,067
0
0.00%
3,067
100.00%
Male 
4,155 
0
0.00%
4,155 100.00%
2,947
0
0.00%
2,947
100.00%
Female 
149 
0
0.00%
149 
100.00%
120
0
0.00%
120
100.00%
Other than permanent 
132 
0
0.00%
132 
100.00%
126
0
0.00%
126
100.00%
Male 
130 
0
0.00%
130 
100.00%
119
0
0.00%
119
100.00%
Female 
2 
0
0.00%
2 
100.00%
7
0
0.00%
7
100.00%
Workers
Permanent
NA
Male
Female
Other than permanent
Male
Female
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
	
a.	
Median remuneration/wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ 
wages of the 
respective 
category 
(Amount in `)
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ 
wages of the 
respective 
category 
(Amount in `)
Board of Directors (BoD)*
2
2,88,17,773
0
NA
Key Managerial Personnel**
1
1,59,62,104
1
17,54,964
Employees other than BoD and KMP
4,152
4,79,396
148
6,01,200
Workers (including contractual workers)
Not Applicable
	
	
* Consist of two whole-time Directors
	
	
**Excluding 2 KMPs already covered under BoD	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Gross wages paid to females as % of total 
wages
5%
4%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Employees may raise human rights-related concerns with their respective department heads or the 
Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC). Additionally, such grievances can be escalated to the Chairperson 
of the Audit Committee under the Whistle Blower Policy or to the Chairperson of the POSH Committee, 
depending on the nature of the issue. All complaints are handled in accordance with the prescribed 
procedures of the relevant policy, and suitable corrective measures are implemented where necessary.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels 
of 
communication 
(Email, 
SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, 
Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose 
and 
scope 
of 
engagement, 
including 
key 
topics 
and 
concerns 
raised 
during such engagement
Lenders
No
Press releases and publications, 
Investor meets, Stock exchange 
communication, 
Website 
disclosures
Periodic
To inform about the Company’s 
performance, 
business 
developments and to address 
queries
Regulators
No
Statutory filings, meetings
Periodic
To 
achieve 
compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements 
and 
industry updates
Value chain 
Partners
No
E-mails, 
Meetings, 
Training 
Programmes
Periodic
To achieve an understanding of 
the portfolio of services offered 
by the business
Employees
No
Emails and meetings, Internal 
portals, Employee satisfaction 
survey, 
Training 
programmes, 
Performance appraisal, Grievance 
redressal mechanisms
Periodic
To provide a safe and secure work 
environment 
and 
merit-based 
opportunities towards fulfilment 
of the Company’s vision, mission 
and 
achieving 
sustainability 
objectives and for professional 
capacity building
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity in the following format
Category
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
%  
(B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
%  
(D / C)
Employees
Permanent
4,304
3,824
88.85%
3,067
NR
NA
Other than permanent
132
73
55.30%
126
NR
NA
Total employees
4,436
3,897
87.85%
3,193
NR
NA
Workers
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Note: Through its Code of Conduct, the Company expects all employees to uphold the highest standards of 
honesty, ethical behaviour and integrity. The Code outlines clear expectations around maintaining mutual 
respect, safeguarding privacy, promoting equal opportunity and non-discrimination, ensuring a healthy and 
safe workplace, and preventing sexual harassment.	
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
117
Annual Report 2024-25
116
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in joules or multiples) and energy intensity in the following format:
Parameter
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
From renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources 
(A+B+C)
-
-
From non-renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (D)
14,235.08
8,383.36
Total fuel consumption (E)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable 
sources (D+E+F)
14,235.08
8,383.36
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) (in GJ)
14,235.08
8,383.36
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total 
energy consumption in GJ/Revenue from 
operations in `)
0.000001 
0.000001 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total energy consumed in GJ/ Revenue from 
operations in ` adjusted for PPP)
0.000021 
0.000016 
Energy intensity in terms of physical output 
(Total energy consumed in GJ/employee)
3.21 
2.63 
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric 
may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, the name of the external agency.:
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance have been conducted.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any.
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, the PAT Scheme of the Government of India 
does not apply.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water in the following format:
Parameter
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
-
-
(iii) Third-party water
59,886.00 
43,105.50 
(iv) Seawater/Desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) 
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
59,886.00 
43,105.50 
6.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:	
	
	
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the 
end of 
the year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the 
end of 
the year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
0
0
NA
1
0
NA
Discrimination at Workplace
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Child Labour
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Wages
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Other Human Rights-Related Issues
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format:
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Total Complaints reported under 
Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
0
1
Complaints on POSH as a % of 
female employees / workers
NA
0.83
Complaints on POSH upheld
NA
1
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Whistle Blower Policy and the Code of Conduct contain specific provisions to ensure that individuals 
raising concerns related to discrimination or harassment are protected from any adverse consequences. 
These frameworks include safeguards to prevent victimisation of complainants and assure them that no 
harm or retaliation will result from reporting such matters in good faith.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
No.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by the entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Nil
Forced/involuntary labour
Nil
Sexual harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Wages
Nil
Others – please specify
Nil
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 9 above.
	
Nil
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
119
Annual Report 2024-25
118
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
The Company has not carried out any projects related to reducing Green House Gas emissions during the 
year.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
	
IndoStar follows a structured approach to waste management, focusing on reducing, reusing, and 
responsibly disposing of waste generated across its operations. The Company implements segregation of 
waste at source, ensures safe disposal of waste, and promotes paperless and digital processes to minimise 
environmental impact.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Given the nature of its business in the financial services sector, the Company’s operations do not involve 
the use or generation of hazardous or toxic chemicals. However, it remains conscious of the environmental 
impact of its activities and has implemented various measures to minimise waste and encourage responsible 
consumption:
•	
Paper: The Company has made considerable progress in digitalising its operations to reduce reliance 
on paper. Any paper used is shredded and recycled. An electronic platform has also been introduced 
for Board and Committee meetings, where agendas and related documents are circulated digitally to 
avoid printing
•	
E-waste: Traditional lighting has been replaced with energy-efficient LED lights, helping to reduce the 
environmental risks linked to mercury exposure
•	
Plastic: The use of single-use plastic has been minimised wherever feasible, with a preference for more 
sustainable alternatives such as glass
•	
Water: Employees are regularly encouraged to use water responsibly, and awareness around mindful 
water consumption is promoted across office locations
11.	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws 
in the current financial year
	
Not Applicable
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format: 
	
The Company complies with all environmental regulations applicable to the financial services sector and 
remains committed to conducting its operations in a responsible and sustainable manner.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
	
	
Nil
b. 	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry  
chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/
associations (State/National)
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
	
Nil
Parameter
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
59,886.00 
43,105.50 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water 
consumed in KL/Revenue from operations in `)
0.000004 
0.000004 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption in KL/Revenue from 
operations in ` adjusted for PPP)
0.000088 
0.000080 
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total 
water consumption in KL/ employee)
13.50 
13.50 
Water intensity (optional) – the entity may select 
the relevant metric
-
-
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
No
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity in the following format:
	
Not recorded
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & their intensity in the 
following format:
Parameter
Unit
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24  
(Previous financial year)
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
-
-
Total Scope 2 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
2,874.70 
1,692.97 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/
Revenue from 
operations in ` 
0.0000002 
0.0000002 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
/ Revenue from 
operations in ` 
adjusted for PPP
0.0000042 
0.0000031 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity in terms 
of physical output
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
employee
0.65 
0.53 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity (optional) 
– the entity may select the 
relevant metric
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
121
Annual Report 2024-25
120
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
The Company follows a transparent and fair approach in all customer dealings. It ensures that product-
related information is communicated clearly and comprehensively, enabling customers to make informed 
decisions.
As a percentage of total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not Applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Not Applicable
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Not Applicable
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
Remarks
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Data privacy
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Advertising
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Cybersecurity
1
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Delivery of essential services
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Restrictive trade practices
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Unfair trade practices
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Other
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues
	
The Company consistently upholds transparency and fairness in all customer interactions. Every product 
provides customers with all necessary information to enable informed decision-making.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy?
	
(Yes/No) If available, provide a weblink to the policy.
	
Yes, the Company has policies in placeto address cybersecurity and data privacy risks. These are covered 
under its IT Policy and Data Privacy Policy, as referenced in the Code of Conduct. The Code outlines 
responsibilities regarding the secure use of company assets, protection of confidential information, and 
adherence to data protection standards, ensuring appropriate safeguards for both customer and employee 
data. Details about the Code of Conduct can be found here: https://www.indostarcapital.com/wp-content/
uploads/2025/04/ICFL_Code-of-Conduct-Policy_Final.pdf
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on the safety of products/services.
	
No corrective measures were required during the reporting period, as there were no reported concerns 
or violations related to advertising practices, delivery of essential services, customer data privacy or 
cybersecurity, product safety, or service recalls. Additionally, no penalties or regulatory actions were 
imposed regarding the safety of our products or services.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a. 	 Number of instances of data breaches: Nil
	
b. 	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: NA
	
c. 	 Impact, if any, of the data breaches: NA
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year.
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format
	
As the Company operates within the financial services sector, this indicator does not apply.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community
	
The Company has not received any grievances from the communities in which it operates. Nonetheless, it 
remains committed to establishing a structured and responsive grievance redressal mechanism to address 
any concerns that may arise in the future. Details about the grievance redressal system can be found here: 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investor-contact/
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
	
As a financial services company, the Company’s operations do not depend on substantial input materials.
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost
Location
2024-25 
(Current financial year)
2023-24 
(Previous financial year)
Metropolitan
60%
65%
Urban
30%
28%
Semi-urban
6%
6%
Rural
4%
1%
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
IndoStar offers multiple platforms for customers to raise queries, requests, and complaints, including:
•	
Email: (contact@indostarcapital.com / pno@indostarcapital.com)
•	
Call Centre: (022-50799503 / 080-44070071)
•	
PNO Contact: (044-4004 5818)
•	
IndoMitra App (Android only)
•	
Website: www.indostarcapital.com
•	
Facebook: IndoStar Capital Finance Ltd
•	
WhatsApp Bot: AskIndo
•	
Branch Walk-ins (logged via Zoho)
	
All customer interactions are routed through the Company’s centralised Customer Management System 
(CMS/SCRM). Responses are also issued from this system to ensure consistency and traceability. If customers 
do not have an email ID, responses are communicated through the Call Centre and call recordings are 
retained for records.
	
Complaints can also be received through regulatory platforms such as RBI CMS and CPGRAMS. These are 
escalated to the relevant departments (Operations, Legal, Collections, Branch) and senior management, 
as needed. Each case is reviewed with reference to details like loan status and complaint history before 
responding to the customer or regulator with appropriate documentation.
2.	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry 
information about:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
123
Annual Report 2024-25
122
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance is about commitment to 
values and ethical business conduct. It is also about 
how an organization is managed viz., its corporate 
and business structure, culture, policies, and the 
manner in which it deals with various stakeholders. 
Timely and accurate disclosure of information 
regarding the financial position of the Company, 
performance and ownership forms part of the 
corporate governance.
I.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
	
At IndoStar we believe that sound corporate 
governance practices are the bedrock for the 
functioning of the Company and creation of 
value for its stakeholders on a sustainable and 
long-term basis. This philosophy guides us in 
defining and maintaining an ethical framework 
within which we operate. At a macro level, your 
Company’s governance philosophy rests on 
five basic tenets, viz., (i) Board accountability 
to the Company and Members; (ii) strategic 
guidance and effective monitoring by the Board; 
(iii) protection of minority interests and rights; 
(iv) equitable treatment of all Members; and 
(v) transparency and timely disclosures.
	
The 
Corporate 
Governance 
framework 
of 
your Company is based on an effective and 
independent Board, separation of the Board’s 
supervisory role from the Senior Management, 
and constitution and functioning of Board 
Committees, as required under applicable laws.
	
To enforce our ethical culture, the Company has 
adopted a Code of Conduct for its directors and 
employees including the Managing Director, 
Whole-time 
Directors 
and 
Non- 
Executive 
Directors. In addition, the Company has adopted 
a Code of Conduct for Independent Directors that 
suitably incorporates the duties of Independent 
Directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”).
	
The Company believes in conducting its business 
in an honest and ethical manner. The Company 
has a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and 
is committed to act professionally with integrity 
in all its business dealings and relationships 
wherever it operates and to that effect is inclined 
towards implementing and enforcing effective 
systems to prevent / counter corruption. 
Consistent with its core values, the Company is 
committed to complying with applicable anti-
corruption and sanction laws and has adopted 
an Anti-Corruption Policy.
	
The Company has in place various Information 
Security related policies that ensure proper 
utilization of IT resources and protection of 
sensitive data of the Company.
	
The details of compliance with the requirements 
stipulated under Chapter IV read with Schedule 
V of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
(“Listing 
Regulations”) and Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company 
– Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 
(“RBI Directions”) with respect to corporate 
governance are as follows:
II.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
	
Your Company’s Board of Directors has a pivotal 
role to protect and enhance stakeholders’ value 
through strategic supervision. The Board of 
Directors is a pinnacle body, which inter alia, 
provides strategic directions and exercises 
appropriate controls over the business and 
operations of the Company to achieve its 
objectives. The Board is a blend of members 
having diverse skills, experience, knowledge, 
capabilities, expertise, attributes and educational 
qualifications, amongst others. The composition 
of the Board comprises highly experienced and 
knowledgeable persons with good repute and 
eminence. It has a diverse mix of executive, non-
executive and independent directors representing 
an optimal mix of professionalism, knowledge 
and experience required for the financial services 
industry. The corporate governance principles of 
your Company have been formulated to ensure 
that the Board of Directors remain informed, 
independent and participate actively in the 
affairs of your Company. 
	
In addition to the basic governance practices, the 
Board of Directors of your Company lays a strong 
emphasis on transparency, accountability and 
integrity. Your Company also strives to enhance 
stakeholders’ value by taking measures to 
continuously improve its corporate governance 
standards. 
A.	
Composition of the Board
	
Your Company recognises and embraces the 
importance of diverse culture of the Board. The 
Company believes that the Board enhances the 
quality of the decisions made by it, which is 
necessary for achieving desired objectives and 
sustainable results.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Board of Directors 
of your Company is comprised of 8 Directors, 
of which 2 were Non-Executive Independent 
Directors of whom one was a Woman Director, 4 
were Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors 
and 2 were Executive Directors. 
	
The composition of the Board of your Company is 
governed by the requirements of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rules framed there under 
(“Act”), Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations, 
RBI Directions and the Articles of Association 
of the Company. In terms of the provisions of 
the Act and Listing Regulations, the Company 
was in compliance with the requirements of 
composition of the Board till March 04, 2025. 
Upon expiry of the term of Mr. Bobby Parikh, as 
an Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Company on March 04, 2025, the Board of the 
Company consisted of only 2 (two) Independent 
Directors, as against the requirement of having a 
minimum of one-third of the Board of Directors 
as independent.  
	
To ensure continued compliance with Regulation 
17(1)(b) and considering the importance and 
criticality of the position of Independent 
Director on the Board, the Company had 
proactively initiated the process of identifying 
a suitable candidate well in advance of the 
expiry of term of Mr. Parikh on March 04, 2025. 
However, 
identifying 
a 
qualified 
individual 
whose expertise and experience aligned with 
the Company’s values and principles and which 
could contribute positively to the business of the 
Company and its stakeholders took longer than 
initially anticipated. It may be noted that after 
identifying and shortlisting suitable candidates 
and conducting proper due diligence process, 
the Company appointed Ms. Sujatha Mohan 
(DIN: 10743626) as an Independent Director 
w.e.f. April 21, 2025. The Company has since been 
in compliance with the applicable provisions of 
the Act, Listing Regulations and RBI Directions 
with respect to the composition of the Board of 
Directors. 
	
The 
Directors 
have 
submitted 
necessary 
disclosures regarding the positions held by 
them on the Board and/ or Committees of other 
companies, from time to time.
	
On the basis of such disclosures, it is confirmed 
that as on the date of this report, none of the 
Directors: - 
a) 	 hold Directorships in more than 10 (Ten) 
public Companies; 
b) 	 hold Directorships in more than 7 (Seven) 
listed entities; 
c) 	 serve as an Independent Director in more 
than 7 (Seven) listed entities; 
d) 	 is a Member of more than 10 (Ten) 
Committees 
or 
Chairperson 
of 
more 
than 5 (Five) Committees (i.e. Audit and 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee) 
across all the public Companies in which he/
she is a Director; and
e) 	 are related to each other.
	
Based on the disclosures received from the 
Directors, following are the details of the shares/
non-convertible debentures held by the Non-
executive Directors of the Company as on March 
31, 2025:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Type of 
securities
Quantity
1
Ms. Neeru Jhaveri 
jointly with  
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri 
Equity
1,000 
2
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Non-
convertible 
Debentures
25,000 
3
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Equity
100
	
The brief profile of the present Directors on the 
Board is available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/about-us/. The 
composition of the Board is depicted in the chart 
below:
Composition of the Board as on  
March 31, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
125
Annual Report 2024-25
124
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
The details of the Directors of the Company with regard to their Directorships, Committee positions, 
including that in listed entities, as on March 31, 2025 are as follows:
Name of Director Category in the 
Company
No. of  
Directorship(s)  
Held* (including 
this Company)
Committee  
positions held@
Names of other listed entities 
where Director  holds 
Directorship (excluding the 
Company) and the  category 
of directorship held in such 
other listed entity#
Member
Chairperson
Ms. Naina Krishna 
Murthy
Chairperson & 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
7
6
-
Sterling and Wilson 
Renewable Energy Limited 
(Independent Director)
Den Networks Limited 
(Independent Director)
Hathway cable and Datacom 
Limited (Independent 
Director)
Page Industries Limited 
(Independent Director)
Mr. Hemant Kaul
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
7
1
-
1
Mr. Bobby Parikh$ Non-Executive 
Director
6
6
3
Infosys Limited  
(Independent Director)
Biocon Limited (Independent 
Director)
Mr. Dhanpal 
Jhaveri
Non-Executive 
Director 
9
2
1
Onward Technologies Limited 
(Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Non-Executive 
Director 
-
-
-
-
Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Non-Executive 
Director 
2
3
-
-
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan^
Whole-Time 
Director (Chief 
Executive Officer)
2
-
-
-
Mr. Randhir 
Singh**
Whole- Time 
Director 
(Executive Vice 
Chairman)
2
1
-
-
* Includes directorship(s) in public companies, private companies and companies incorporated under 
Section 8 of the Act, but does not include foreign companies.
@Includes membership(s) and chairmanship(s) in Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee in all public limited companies. If a Director is a Chairman of a Committee, the same is being 
included in Membership count also
$ Term of Mr. Bobby Parikh as an Independent Director of the Company expired on March 04, 2025 and Mr. 
Parikh was re-appointed as an Non-executive Non-Independent Director w.e.f. March 5, 2025 
^ Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan resigned as Chief Executive Officer and Whole-time Director of the Company 
w.e.f. May 11, 2025.
** Mr. Randhir Singh appointed as the Whole-time Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman of the 
Company effective from July 22, 2024. Re-designated as Managing Director and Executive Vice Chairman 
effective from May 11, 2025.
Skills / Expertise / Competencies of the Board of Directors
	
The diverse skills, expertise and competencies of Board of Directors ensures that the Company retains its 
competitive advantage. The Board composition represents an optimal mix of professionalism, knowledge, 
expertise and experience which enables the Board to discharge its responsibilities and provide effective 
leadership to the business. The Board members have rich and varied experience in critical areas like 
governance, finance, entrepreneurship, economics, commercial, general management, technology, 
sustainability, marketing, etc., that allows them to make effective contribution to the Board and its 
Committees. The following is the list of core skills / expertise / competencies identified by the Board of 
Directors as required in the context of the Company’s business(es) for it to function effectively:
•	
Leadership 
•	
Experience in the Financial Services Industry 
•	
Strategic Planning 
•	
Knowledge of Regulatory Environment 
•	
Financial and Accounting Expertise 
•	
Board Service, Corporate Governance and Risk Management 
•	
Knowledge in the field of Information Technology
	
The names of directors who have the above skills / expertise / competencies are as follows:
Name of Director
Leadership Experience 
in the 
Financial 
Services 
Industry 
Strategic 
Planning 
Knowledge 
of 
Regulatory 
Environment
Financial 
and 
Accounting 
Expertise 
Board 
Service, 
Corporate 
Governance 
and Risk 
Management 
Knowledge 
in the 
field of 
Information 
Technology
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy




-


Mr. Bobby Parikh 






-
Mr. Hemant Kaul







Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri



-


-
Mr. Aditya Joshi



-



Mr. Devdutt Marathe



-



Mr. Randhir Singh**







Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan*







** Appointed as the Whole-time Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman of the Company w.e.f. July 
22, 2024. Re-designated as Managing Director and Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 11, 2025.
	
*Resigned as Whole-time Director and Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. May 11, 2025
	
Formal 
induction 
and 
familiarisation 
programme for directors
	
The Company’s independent directors are 
eminent professionals with several decades of 
experience in banking and financial services 
industry, 
technology, 
finance, 
governance, 
risk management, analytics, data science and 
management areas and are fully conversant 
and familiar with the business of the Company. 
The Company has an ongoing familiarisation 
programme for all directors with regard to 
their roles, duties, rights, responsibilities in the 
Company, nature of the industry in which the 
Company operates, the business model of the 
Company, etc. The programme is embedded in 
the regular meeting agenda where alongside 
the review of operations, information on the 
industry, competition and company strategy are 
presented on a quarterly basis. The details of the 
familiarisation programme attended by directors 
are available on the website of the Company. 
	
As part of the initial familiarisation programme, a 
formal letter of appointment is being issued by the 
Company to the independent directors outlining 
the role, functions, duties and responsibilities 
of the independent directors being appointed. 
The terms & conditions of appointment of the 
independent directors is available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner/. 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
127
Annual Report 2024-25
126
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
Further, there is a detailed quarterly discussion and presentation on review of operations of the Company 
and the regulatory updates impacting the business which helps the director familiarize himself / herself 
with the Company, its business, and the regulatory framework in which the Company operates.
	
The number of Directorship(s), Committee Membership(s) & Chairmanship(s) of all Directors on the Board 
of your Company are within respective limits prescribed under the Act and the Listing Regulations. 
 
Confirmation on Independence of Directors
	
All the Independent Directors have affirmed compliance with the criteria of independence as stipulated in 
the Act and the Listing Regulations and have also confirmed their enrollment in the databank of Independent 
Directors maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs. 
	
Further, based on the confirmation received from all the Directors and in the opinion of the Board of 
Directors, all the Independent Directors of the Company satisfy the criteria of independence specified in 
the Act and the Listing Regulations and are independent of the Company’s Management.
 
Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
	
A certificate from H Choudhary & Associates, Practicing Company Secretary, confirming that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Company as on March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as director on the Board of the Company by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (“SEBI”), the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority, is annexed to this Corporate 
Governance Report.
 
Changes in the directorships during the financial year 2024-25
Sr. 
No
Name of the Director
Nature of change
Date of change
1.
Mr. Randhir Singh
Appointed as Whole-time Director 
designated as Executive Vice Chairman
With effect from July 22, 2024
2.
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Expiry of term as an Independent Director
On March 04, 2025
3.
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Appointed as Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director
With effect from March 5, 2025
4.
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja Resigned as Non-Executive Director
With 
effect 
from 
close 
of 
business hours on March 3, 2025
B.	
Board meetings and Board procedure
	
The Board meets at least once in every quarter 
to review the quarterly results and other items 
on the agenda and additional meetings are 
held to address specific needs and business 
requirements of your Company. The information 
as required under Schedule V (c) of the Listing 
Regulations is made available to the Board.
	
The schedule of the Board / Committee meetings 
to be held in a financial year is circulated in 
advance to enable the Directors / Committee 
Members to plan their schedule and ensure 
highest participation at Board / Committee 
Meetings. Directors are given an option of 
attending Board / Committee meetings through 
video conference or other audio-visual means in 
order to ensure effective decision making through 
increased participation. The agenda along with 
detailed notes are circulated to the Directors 
/ Members well in advance and all material 
information is incorporated in the agenda for 
facilitating meaningful and focused discussions 
at meetings of the Board and Committees. With 
a view to leverage technology and to contribute 
to environment conservation, your Company 
has adopted an electronic Board / Committee 
meetings application where the agenda and all 
supporting documents are hosted online.
	
The Board meets at least once in a quarter to 
review financial results and operations of the 
Company. In addition, the Board also meets at 
regular interval in a year to consider, discuss 
and decide the business strategy including 
policy matters and gaining the understanding of 
various businesses carried on by the subsidiaries 
of the Company.
	
During the year under review, meetings of the 
Board of Directors were convened and held 
15 times on April 29, 2024, May 13, 2024, July 
31, 2024, August 21, 2024, August 29, 2024, 
September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 
29, 2024, December 04, 2024, December 10, 
2024, December 26, 2025, January 20, 2025, 
March 3, 2025, March 27, 2025 and March 28, 
2025. These meetings were held in a manner that 
not more than 120 days intervene between two 
consecutive meetings. The required quorum was 
present at all the above mentioned meetings. 
Due to business exigencies, certain decisions 
were taken by the Board by way of resolutions 
passed through circulation, from time to time. 
	
Meetings and attendance during the financial 
year under review:
Date of Board 
Meeting
Board 
Strength
No. of 
Directors 
Present
April 29, 2024
8
8
May 13, 2024
8
7
July 31, 2024
9
7
August 21, 2024
9
6
August 29, 2024
9
7
Date of Board 
Meeting
Board 
Strength
No. of 
Directors 
Present
September 19, 2024
9
9
October 18, 2024
9
9
November 29, 2024
9
6
December 04, 2024
9
6
December 10, 2024
9
6
December 26, 2024
9
4
January 20, 2025
9
8
March 3, 2025
9
7
March 27, 2025
8
6
March 28, 2025
8
7
	
The details of attendance of each Director at 
the Board Meetings held during the financial 
year under review and at the previous Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held 
on September 30, 2024 through virtual mode 
are as under:
Name of the Directors
No. of Meetings held during 
tenure of directorship
No. of Meetings 
attended
Attendance at the 
previous AGM
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
15
11
No
Mr. Hemant Kaul
15
14
Yes
Mr. Bobby Parikh 
15
14
Yes
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
15
4
Yes
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja*
13
6
No
Mr. Aditya Joshi
15
13
No
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
15
15
No
Mr. Randhir Singh**
13
12
Yes
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan#
15
15
Yes
	
* Resigned as Director effective from close of business hours on March 3, 2025
	
**Appointed as Whole-time Director and Executive Vice Chairman effective from July 22, 2024
	
# Resigned as Whole-time Director and Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. May 11, 2025
	
11 (Eleven) Resolutions by circulation were passed by the Board during the year 2024-25. 
	
The Board has unrestricted access to all Company related information including to the members of the 
management. The Company Secretary ensures that the Board and the committees of the Board are provided 
with the relevant information, details and documents required for decision making. All material information 
including the relevant information as stipulated in Part A of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations is 
circulated to the Board as part of the agenda. The information, in the nature of Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information, is circulated to the Board/committee members at a shorter notice on secured platform, with 
the unanimous consent of the Board obtained at its first meeting held during each financial year.
	
In order to facilitate effective discussions, the agenda is bifurcated into items requiring consideration and 
approval and items which are to be noted by the Board.
	
Detailed presentations and notes are laid before each meeting, by the management and senior executives 
of the Company to apprise the Board on overall performance on quarterly basis. The senior executives/
management of the Company are also invited to attend the meetings to make presentations on business 
plans, business performance, operations, financial performance, risk management, update on regulatory 
changes applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries and to provide update on other significant issues and 
matters to the Board on a periodical basis. Additionally, the Board members interact with the CEOs/business 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
129
Annual Report 2024-25
128
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
heads of respective subsidiary companies for 
clarification/information, as and when required. 
These processes provide opportunity to the 
Board/committee members to interact with the 
members of the management.
	
The Board is provided with all the information in 
a timely manner in order to discharge its duties 
and to take well informed decisions.
	
The 
Company 
Secretary 
attends 
all 
the 
meetings of the Board and its committees 
and is, inter alia, responsible for recording the 
minutes of such meetings. The draft minutes of 
the meetings of the Board and its committees 
are sent to the Board/committee members 
for their comments in accordance with the 
Secretarial Standard on meetings of the Board 
of Directors (the “SS-1”), issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India. Suggestions, 
if any, received from the Board/committee 
members are suitably incorporated in the draft 
minutes, in consultation with the Chairman of 
the Board/committee. 
	
Thereafter, the minutes are entered in the 
minutes book within the prescribed time limit.
	
Succession Planning
	
Succession planning is an essential component 
for the survival and growth of any business as 
it ensures continuity of business process. It 
provides a way to identify key roles, people with 
the right skills/talent and filling up the vacancy, 
as and when required.
	
The Company’s succession planning framework 
deliberates on various factors including current 
tenure of Directors, anticipated vacancies in 
key Board and Senior Management positions, 
assessment of skills including skill-gaps, diversity, 
etc., to ensure orderly succession planning.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
regularly reviews the succession planning policy 
of the Company and recommend changes, if 
any, to the Board for its approval. Pursuant to 
Regulation 17(4) of the Listing Regulations, the 
Board satisfies itself that plans are in place for 
orderly succession for appointment to the Board 
and senior management.
C.	
Separate meeting of Independent Directors 
	
In terms of the Act and the Listing Regulations, a 
meeting of the Independent Directors was held 
on February 21, 2025 without the attendance of 
the Non-Independent Directors and members 
of the management of the Company. All the 
Independent Directors attended the meeting 
through video conference.
	
At their meeting, the Independent Directors 
reviewed 
the 
performance 
of 
the 
non-
independent directors and the Board as a 
collective entity. The Independent Directors also 
reviewed the performance of the Chairperson of 
the Company, taking into account the views of 
executive directors and non-executive directors 
of the Company. The Independent directors also 
assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness 
of flow of information between the Company 
management and the Board that is necessary for 
the Board to effectively and reasonably perform 
their duties.
	
As required under the Listing Regulations, the 
Company has Directors and Officers Liability 
Insurance (D&O Policy) which is renewed 
every 
year. 
It 
covers 
directors 
including 
independent directors of the Company and of 
its subsidiaries.
D.	
Performance evaluation of the Board
	
A formal mechanism has been adopted for 
evaluating the performance of the Board, the 
Committees thereof, individual Directors and 
the Chairman of the Board. The evaluation is 
based on criteria which include, amongst others, 
providing strategic perspective, time devoted 
and preparedness for meetings, quality, quantity 
and timeliness of the flow of information between 
the Board Members and the Management, 
contribution at the meetings, effective decision 
making 
ability, 
role 
and 
effectiveness 
of 
Committees, etc. The Directors duly completed 
and submitted the questionnaires providing 
feedback on functioning of the Board as a whole, 
Committees and Chairman of the Board.
	
Further details are mentioned in the Board’s 
Report.
E.	
Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior 
Management
	
In compliance with Regulations 17(5) and 
26(3) of the Listing Regulations, the Company 
has adopted a Code of Conduct for all the 
stakeholders of the Company including the 
Board Members and Senior Management of the 
Company (“the Code”). The Code is available on 
the Company’s website at ICF - Code of Conduct.
	
All the Board Members and Senior Management 
Personnel have confirmed compliance with the 
Code during the financial year under review 
and a declaration to that effect signed by the 
Executive Vice Chairman of the Company forms 
a part of this Annual Report.
III.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
In terms of the RBI Directions, the Listing Regulations, the applicable circular(s), regulation(s) and 
notification(s) issued by the SEBI, the applicable provisions of the Act and the Company’s internal corporate 
governance standards, the Board of Directors have constituted various committees mentioned herein below 
and the role of each committee has been defined by the Board of Directors for effective functioning and 
governance within the Company. The Board of Directors have accepted and implemented the mandatory 
recommendations made by the Committee(s) during the year under review.
	
Minutes of the meetings of all the Committees constituted by the Board of Directors are placed before the 
Board of Directors for discussion and noting.
Committees Overview
As per Companies Act, 2013 and 
Listing Regulations
As per RBI Directions
As per the Company’s internal 
corporate governance
- 	Audit Committee
- 	Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
- Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
-	Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
-	Risk Management Committee
-	Asset Liability Management 
Committee
-	Customer Service Committee 
(Erstwhile Grievance 
Redressal Committee)
-	IT Strategy Committee
- IT Steering Committee
- Know Your Customer 
Commitee
-	Committee of Executives
- Identification Committee
- Review Committee
- Information Security 
Committee
- Borrowing  Committee
- Internal Complaints 
Committee
-	Banking Committee
-	Management committee
-	ESG Working Committee
-	Disciplinary Committee
-	Debt - Public Issue Committee
-	New Product Committee
	
Audit Committee 
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
	
The Audit committee consists of three (3) members, 2 (two) of whom are non-executive independent 
directors and Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Independent Director thereby meeting the 
requirements of Section 177 of the Act read with rules thereto and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. 
All the members of the Audit committee are financially literate and possess relevant knowledge of the 
financial services industry.
	
As on March 31, 2025, The Audit Committee comprised of following members:
-	
Mr. Hemant Kaul - Chairman
-	
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
-	
Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
	
The Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors of the Company submit their report(s) directly to the 
Audit Committee.
	
During the year under review, the Audit Committee met seven (7) times on April 29, 2024, July 31, 2024, 
August 29, 2024, September 11, 2024, October 18, 2024, January 20, 2025 and March 3, 2025. The required 
quorum was present at all the above meetings. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the 
last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on September 30, 2024. Due to business exigencies, 
certain decisions are taken by the Committee by way of resolutions passed through circulation, from time 
to time. During the year under review one (1) resolution was passed through circular resolution. 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
131
Annual Report 2024-25
130
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of  
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended 
^Mr. Bobby Parikh
Chairman
7
7
$Mr. Hemant Kaul
Chairman
7
7
Ms. Naina Krishna 
Murthy
Member
7
6
*Mr. Aditya Joshi
Member
4
4
#Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Member 
3
3
^ Ceased to be member and Chairman of the 
committee w.e.f. March 5, 2025
$ Designated as the Chairman of the committee w.e.f. 
March 05, 2025
* Ceased to be member of the committee w.e.f. 
September 26, 2024
#Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f. 
September 26, 2024
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the secretary of the Audit 
Committee.
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
inter-alia includes: 
1.	
Oversight 
of 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
reporting process;
2.	
Recommending 
to 
the 
Board, 
the 
appointment, 
re-appointment 
and, 
if 
required, the replacement or removal of the 
statutory auditor and internal auditor, and 
related matters;
3.	
Reviewing 
and 
examination, 
with 
the 
management, of the quarterly/half yearly/ 
annual 
financial 
statements 
and 
the 
Limited Review Report/auditors’ report 
thereon before submission to the board for 
approval; 
4.	
Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans 
and 
investments;
5.	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
Company, wherever it is necessary;
6.	
Evaluation of internal financial controls and 
risk management systems;
7.	
To review the utilisation of loans/advances/
investments 
to 
subsidiary 
company(s) 
exceeding 100 crore or 10% asset size of 
subsidiary, whichever is lower, including 
existing loans/advances/investments;
8.	
Review 
the 
financial 
statements 
of 
the 
unlisted 
subsidiary 
in 
particular 
the investments made by the unlisted 
subsidiary;
9.	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, if any, including the structure 
of the internal audit department, staffing 
and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage 
and frequency of internal audit;
10.	 Review and oversee the functioning of the 
whistle blower / vigil mechanism of the 
Company;
11.	
Approval, 
ratify 
or 
any 
subsequent 
modification of transactions of the Company 
with related parties.
	
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(“NRC”) 
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
	
The Nomination and Remuneration committee 
(the “NRC”) consists of Three (3) members, two 
(2) of whom are independent directors thereby 
meeting the requirements of Section 178 of the 
Act read with rules thereto and Regulation 19 
read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations and RBI Directions. 
	
As on March 31, 2025, the NRC comprised of 
following members:
-	
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy – Chairperson
-	
Mr. Hemant Kaul (Chairman upto March 04, 
2025) 
-	
Mr. Aditya Joshi 
	
Due to change in directors of the Company on 
March 3, 2025, various committees of the Board 
were re-constituted. In order to ensure diversity 
and proper representation on every committee, 
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy who was appointed as 
the chairperson of the Board was also appointed 
as chairperson of the NRC w.e.f. March 5, 2025. 
However, in order to comply with the provision 
of Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations, Mr. 
Hemant Kaul was again appointed as Chairman 
of the Committee w.e.f. April 29, 2025. 
	
During the year under review, the NRC met eight 
(8) times on April 29, 2024, May 13, 2024, July 
31, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, 
January 20, 2025, February 26, 2025 and March 
03, 2025. The required quorum was present at 
all the above Meetings. The Chairman of the NRC 
was present at the last Annual General Meeting 
of the Company held on September 30, 2024. 
Due to business exigencies, certain decisions are 
taken by the Committee by way of resolutions 
passed through circulation, from time to time. 
During the year under review five (5) resolutions 
were passed through circular resolution. 
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held  
during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
No. of  
Meetings  
attended 
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
^Ms. Naina 
Krishna Murthy
Chairperson
NA
NA
$Mr. Hemant Kaul
Chairman
8
8
*Mr. Bobby 
Parikh
Member
8
8
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Member
8
8
	
^ Designated as the Chairperson of the committee 
w.e.f. March 05, 2025 and ceased to be the Chairperson 
of the Committee with w.e.f. April 29, 2025
	
$ Was Chairman upto March 04, 2025 and again 
designated as the Chairman of the committee w.e.f. 
April 29, 2025
	
* Ceased to be member of the committee w.e.f. 
March 05, 2025
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the NRC inter-alia 
includes: 
1.	
To identify persons who are qualified 
to become directors and who may be 
appointed in senior management; 
2.	
To formulate and implement the criteria for 
determining qualification, positive attributes 
and independence of director(s) and criteria 
for the persons that can be appointment in 
senior management;
3.	
To formulate criteria for evaluation of 
Directors, the Board and its Committee(s);
4.	
To 
determine 
specific 
remuneration 
packages and recommending policy on 
remuneration of the Executive Directors, 
the Non-Executive Directors (including the 
Independent Directors) and senior level 
employees and to decide payment of bonus 
including variable pay and promotion of 
employees;
5.	
Formulation of Succession policy and 
Succession plan for Senior Management 
Personnel;
6.	
To formulate and administer employee stock 
options plans;
7.	
To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company and as may be 
delegated by the Board from time to time;
8.	
To delegate to the officials / any Committee 
such powers of the Committee as may be 
deemed fit by the Committee.
	
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
	
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) has 
been constituted pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations and 
RBI Master Directions, to frame, implement 
and monitor the risk management plan of the 
Company.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the RMC comprised of 
following members:
-	
Mr. Hemant Kaul – Chairman
-	
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
	
-	
Mr. Randhir Singh
-	
Mr. Jayesh Jain
	
-	
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani
-	
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
	
During the year under review, the RMC met six 
(6) times on April 12, 2024, April 25, 2024, July 
25, 2024, October 16, 2024, December 04, 2024 
and January 16, 2025. The required quorum 
was present at all the above meetings. Due to 
business exigencies, certain decisions are taken 
by the Committee by way of resolutions passed 
through circulation, from time to time. During 
the year under review four (4) resolutions were 
passed through circular resolution.
	
Meetings with Chief Risk Officer - During the 
year under review, in line with the requirements 
of RBI Directions, the Committee had separate 
meetings every quarter with Chief Risk Officer of 
the Company without the presence of the Chief 
Executive Officer & Whole-Time Director.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
133
Annual Report 2024-25
132
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members 
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
No. of  
Meetings  
attended 
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
Mr. Hemant Kaul Chairman
6
4
Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Member
6
6
*Mr. Vibhor 
Kumar Talreja
Member
3
1
^Mr. Randhir 
Singh
Member 
3
3
$Mr. Vinod 
Kumar Panicker
Member
6
6
~Mr. Jayesh Jain
Member 
NA
NA
Mr. Nitin 
Gyanchandani
Member
6
6
#Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
6
6
* ceased to a Member from September 26, 2024
^appointed as a member from September 26, 2024
#ceased to be a member from May 11, 2025
$ ceased to be a member from March 03, 2025
~appointed as a member from March 12, 2025
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the Risk 
Management Committee.
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the RMC inter-alia 
includes:
1.	
Identifying, monitoring and managing risks 
that affect / may affect the Company; 
2.	
To decide on the appropriateness of the size 
and nature of transactions undertaken by 
the Company; 
3.	
To set up and review risk management 
policies of the Company, from time to time;
4.	
To oversee execution / implementation of 
risk management practices; 
5.	
To decide on transactions that are proposed 
to be entered into by the Company that 
have a potential for a conflict of interest;
6.	
To review of appointment, removal and 
terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk 
Officer;
7.	
Yearly reviewing the material outsourcing 
arrangements and vendor/ service provider 
performance.
	
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
(“CSR”) 
Committee 
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(“CSR”) has been constituted pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 135 of the Act read with 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended.
	
As on March 31, 2025. the CSR Committee 
comprised of following members:
-	
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy - Chairperson
-	
Mr. Bobby Parikh
-	
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
-	
Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
-	
Mr. Randhir Singh 
-	
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
	
During the year under review, the CSR Committee 
met once on July 31, 2024. The required quorum 
was present at the above meeting.
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as a Secretary of the 
Committee and is also the Compliance Officer of 
the Company.
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held 
during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
No. of  
Meetings  
attended 
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
Ms. Naina 
Krishna Murthy
Chairperson
1
1
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Member
1
1
Mr. Dhanpal 
Jhaveri
Member
1
-
Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Member
1
1
*Mr. Randhir 
Singh
Member
-
NA
^Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
1
1
^Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan ceased to a member from 
May 11, 2025
*Mr. Randhir Singh appointed as a Member from 
September 26, 2024
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the CSR Committee 
inter-alia includes: 
1.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR 
Policy) indicating the activity or activities 
to be undertaken by the Company as 
specified in Schedule VII of the Companies 
Act 2013;
2.	
Recommend the amount to be spent on 
CSR activities;
3.	
Review and monitor the Company’s CSR 
Policy periodically;
4.	
To ensure that the activities as are included 
in CSR Policy are undertaken by the 
Company;
5.	
Institution 
of 
transparent 
monitoring 
mechanism for the implementation of CSR 
Projects (Rule 5 (2) of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules 2014);
6.	
To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee 
(“SRC”) has been constituted pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of 
the Listing Regulations.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the SRC comprised of 
following members:
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri - Chairman
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Mr. Randhir Singh
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as a Secretary of the 
Committee and is also the Compliance Officer of 
the Company.
	
During the year under review, the SRC met once 
on October 18, 2025. The requisite quorum was 
present at the said meeting. 
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting held during the year under review are as 
under: 
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship)
No. of  
Meetings 
attended 
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri Chairman
1
1
Ms. Naina Krishna 
Murthy
Member
1
1
Mr. Bobby Parikh 
Member
1
1
Mr. Devdutt Marathe Member
1
1
^Mr. Randhir Singh
Member
1
1
*Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
NA
NA
	
^Mr. Randhir Singh appointed as a Member from 
September 26, 2024
	
* Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan ceased to be a Member 
from September 26, 2024
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the SRC inter-alia 
includes: 
1.	
To oversee, review and monitor redressal of 
the grievances of shareholders, debenture 
holders, 
investors 
and 
other 
security 
holders;
2.	
To approve / review / refuse transfer 
/ 
transmission 
/ 
dematerialisation 
/ 
rematerialisation of shares, debentures and 
other securities, if any, in timely manner;
3.	
To issue share certificates, duplicate / split 
/ consolidation share certificates and share 
certificates in replacement of those which 
are defaced, mutilated, torn or old, decrepit, 
worn out or where the pages on reverse for 
recording transfers have been utilized;
4.	
To oversee the performance of the registrar 
and transfer agents and to recommend 
measures for overall improvement in the 
quality of investor services;
5.	
To 
monitor 
transfer 
of 
the 
amounts 
transferable to and from Investor Education 
and Protection Fund;
6.	
To review measures taken for effective 
exercise of voting rights by shareholders;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
135
Annual Report 2024-25
134
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
7.	
To review adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of 
various services being rendered by the 
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent;
8.	
To review various measures and initiatives 
taken 
by 
the 
Company 
for 
reducing 
the 
quantum 
of 
unclaimed 
dividends 
and ensuring timely receipt of dividend 
warrants/annual reports/statutory notices 
by the shareholders of the Company.
	
During the year under review, 1(one) complaint 
was received from investors / shareholders which 
was resolved within the prescribed timelines. 
There were no pending complaints as on March 
31, 2025
	
Asset-Liability 
Management 
Committee 
(“ALCO”) 
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance 
	
The Asset-Liability Management Committee 
has been constituted under RBI’s Guidelines 
on Liquidity Risk Management Framework for 
Non-Banking Financial Companies and Core 
Investment Companies read with RBI Directions, 
as amended (collectively referred to as “RBI 
Framework”)
	
As on March 31, 2025, the ALCO comprised of 
following members:
	
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan – Chairman
	
Mr. Randhir Singh
	
Mr. Jayesh Jain
	
Mr. Kaushal Mithani, 
	
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani, 
	
Mr. K V Bharadwaj
	
During the year under review, the ALCO met 
four (4) times on May 31, 2024, August 28, 
2024, December 16, 2024 and February 20, 
2025 . The required quorum was present at all 
the above meetings. Due to business exigencies, 
certain decisions are taken by the ALCO by way 
of resolutions passed through circulation, from 
time to time. During the year under review two 
(2) resolutions were passed through circular 
resolution.
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status 
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
member-
ship
No. of 
Meetings 
attended 
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Chairman
4
3
**Mr. Randhir Singh 
Member
2
2
# Mr. Jayesh Jain
Member
NA
NA
*Mr. Nitin 
Gyanchandani
Member
4
4
*Mr. K V Bharadwaj
Member
4
4
*Mr. Kaushal Mithani
Member
4
4
^Ms. Rashmita 
Prajapati
Member
1
1
***Mr. Vinodkumar 
Panicker
Member
4
4
*appointed as members of the Committee from April 
29, 2024
** Mr. Randhir Singh appointed as a Member on 
September 26, 2024
*** Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker ceased to a Member from 
March 03, 2025
#Mr. Jayesh Jain appointed as a Member from March 
12, 2025
^Ms. Rashmita Prajapati appointed as a Member on 
September 26, 2024 and ceased to be a member from 
January 20, 2025.
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the 
ALCO.
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the ALCO inter-alia 
includes: 
1.	
To monitor the asset liability composition 
of the Company’s business, determining 
actions to mitigate risks associated with the 
asset liability mismatches; 
2.	
To determine and review the current interest 
rate model of the Company;
3.	
To approve proposals and detailed terms 
and conditions of borrowings from banks, 
4.	
To reviewing the borrowing programme of 
the Company, 
5.	
To review product pricing and desired 
maturity profile of assets and liabilities 
and also the mix of incremental assets & 
liabilities. 
	
Customer Service Committee: 
	
Composition and Meetings
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Customer Service 
Committee (“CSC”) comprised of following 
members:
-	
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan – Chairman
-	
Mr. Randhir Singh
-	
Mr. Krishnamoorthy Swaminathan - Invitee
-	
Ms. Rashmita Prajapati - Invitee
-	
Ms. Fini M Joseph - Invitee
	
In terms of RBI Directions, Mrs. Pooja Anil Thakur, 
Internal Ombudsman Officer, act as a Permanent 
Invitee to the CSC. 
	
During the year under review, the Committee 
met 4 times on April 25, 2024, July 26, 2024, 
October 17, 2024 and January 17, 2025.
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held  
during 
tenure of 
member-
ship
No. of 
Meetings 
attended 
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan  
Chairman
4
4
*Mr. Randhir Singh
Member
2
2
***Mr. Krishnamoorthy 
Swaminathan 
Invitee
4
4
***Ms. Rashmita 
Prajapati 
Invitee
4
4
***Ms. Fini M Joseph 
Invitee
4
4
Ms. Pooja Anil Thakur 
Permanent 
Invitee
4
3
	
* Appointed as a Member on July 31, 2024
	
*** ceased to be a members of the Committee and 
designated as invitees of the Committees w.e.f July 31, 
2024.
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the 
Customer Service Committee.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the Customer Service 
Committee inter-alia includes: 
1.	
To carry out such functions for the redressal 
of the borrowers and clients’ complaints 
including but not limited to applications for 
loans and their processing, loan appraisal 
and terms / conditions, disbursement of 
loans, change in terms and conditions, and 
any other grievance that a borrower or 
client of the Company may have against the 
Company;
2.	
To 
periodically 
review 
the 
Customer 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism to ensure 
that 
process 
deficiencies, 
if 
any, 
are 
addressed;
3.	
To review the Statement of Complaints 
received, resolved and pending, along with 
reasons for the same;
4.	
To determine the structure of emoluments, 
facilities and benefits accorded to the Internal 
Ombudsman / Deputy Internal Ombudsman 
at the time of their appointment;
5.	
To review the periodic reports along with 
analysis of complaints on the activities of 
the Internal Ombudsman;
	
IT Strategy Committee 
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The IT Strategy Committee has been constituted 
pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Master 
Direction on Information Technology Framework 
for the NBFC Sector read with RBI Directions, as 
amended.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the IT Strategy Committee 
comprised of:
-	
Mr. Hemant Kaul - Chairman
-	
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
-	
Mr. Jayesh Jain
-	
Mr. Amit Ashwin Kothari 
-	
Mr. Mihir Bhavsar
-	
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan 
	
During the year under review, the Committee 
met three (3) times on September 10, 2024, 
November 12, 2024 and February 24, 2025.
	
The Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary of the IT 
Strategy committee.
	
The details of attendance by the Members at the 
meeting(s) held during the year under review are 
as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meet-
ings held 
during 
tenure of 
member-
ship
No. of 
Meetings 
attended 
*Mr. Bobby Parikh
Chairperson
3
3
^Mr. Hemant Kaul
Member
NA
NA
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Member
3
3
@Mr. Jayesh Jain
Member
NA
NA
Mr. Amit Ashwin 
Kothari
Member
3
3
#Mr. Mihir Bhavsar
Member
2
2
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
137
Annual Report 2024-25
136
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meet-
ings held 
during 
tenure of 
member-
ship
No. of 
Meetings 
attended 
&Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
3
3
*Mr. Vinodkumar 
Panicker
Member
3
3
^ appointed as member from March 12, 2025 and 
ceased to be member from April 21, 2025
@appointed as member from March 12, 2025
# appointed as member from September 26, 
2025
& ceased to be a member from May 11, 2025
* Ceased to be a member from March 03, 2025
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the IT Strategy 
Committee are guided by the prescriptions of 
the Master Direction - Information Technology 
Framework for the NBFC Sector issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India which inter-alia includes: 
1.	
to 
approve 
and 
monitor 
information 
technology 
(“IT”) 
strategy 
and 
policy 
documents; 
2.	
monitor processes and practices to ensure 
IT delivers value to business; 
3.	
ensure that IT investments represent a 
balance of risks and benefits;
4.	
determine the IT resources required to 
achieve strategic goals;
5.	
providing high-level direction for sourcing 
and use of IT resources;
6.	
managing IT related risks.
	
Internal Complaints Committee
	
Composition and Meetings
	
In terms of the Sexual Harassment of Women 
at 
Workplace 
(Prevention, 
Prohibition 
& 
Redressal) Act, 2013, the Board of Directors 
constituted an Internal Complaints Committee. 
Further, considering geographic diversification 
throughout 
the 
Country 
and 
increase 
in 
number of employees, the Board of Directors 
also constituted Regional Internal Complaints 
Committees for the East, West, North and South 
regions. 
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Internal Complaints 
Committee comprised of following members:
	
-	
Ms. Priya Prasad (Presiding Officer), 
-	
Mr. Kekin Savla, 
-	
Ms. Rashmita Prajapati, 
-	
Mr. Dipesh Mehta, 
-	
Ms. Srividya Sriram (External Member from 
an association committed to the cause of 
women). 
	
No complaints related to sexual harassment 
were received during the year under review. 
There were no complaints pending as on March 
31, 2025.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the Internal Complaints 
Committee inter-alia includes: conducting an 
inquiry into complaints made by any aggrieved 
woman at the workplace and arrive at a 
conclusion as to whether the allegation for which 
the complaint has been filed is proved or not and 
take necessary action to resolve the complaints, 
preparing annual report for each calendar 
year and submitting the same to the Board of 
Directors, the District Officer and such other 
officer as may be prescribed, and monitoring and 
implementing the Company’s Care and Dignity 
Policy. 
	
Other Committees
	
Apart 
from 
above 
statutory 
committees, 
the Board of Directors of the Company has 
constituted various other committee comprising 
of directors and senior management personnel 
of the Company to look into various day to 
day matters and also to strengthen corporate 
governance. 
	
These committees handles the matters delegated 
to it as per the term of reference approved by 
the Board of Directors and meet as and when 
necessary. 
IV.	 CODES AND POLICIES
	
Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit & Proper” 
Person Criteria 
	
In terms of provisions of the Act, Guidelines 
on Corporate Governance prescribed vide RBI 
Directions and the Listing Regulations, the Board 
of Directors adopted a ‘Policy on Selection 
Criteria / “Fit and Proper” Person Criteria’ which 
lays down a framework relating to appointment 
of Director(s) and senior management personnel 
including key managerial personnel of the 
Company. 
	
The Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit and Proper” 
Person Criteria inter-alia includes: 
•	
Manner / process for selection of Directors 
and senior management personnel including 
key managerial personnel;
•	
Criteria to be considered for appointment of 
Directors including qualifications, positive 
attributes, fit and proper person status 
and independence criteria for Independent 
Directors; 
•	
Criteria to be considered for appointment in 
senior management of the Company.
	
In terms of the Policy on Selection Criteria 
/ “Fit and Proper” Person Criteria, the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee is 
primarily responsible for: 
•	
Guiding and recommending to the Board of 
Directors the appointment and removal of 
Director(s), senior management personnel 
and key managerial personnel of the 
Company.
•	
Ensuring “Fit and Proper” Person status of 
proposed / existing Director(s).
	
The Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit & Proper” 
Person Criteria is available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-services. 
	
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism 
	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 177(9) 
of the Act read with Rule 7 of the Companies 
(Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 
and Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations, 
the 
Company 
has 
formulated 
a 
Whistle 
blower policy and vigil mechanism for internal 
stakeholders of the Company including the 
Directors, Employees and external stakeholders 
including vendors, suppliers, consultants, agents 
to report genuine concerns related to unethical 
behavior, actual or suspected fraud, violation of 
any applicable laws, codes of conduct or policies 
of the Company, any suspected misconduct/ 
illegal/ improper conduct and leak or suspected 
leak of unpublished price sensitive information 
and to provide for adequate safeguards against 
victimization of stakeholder of the Company who 
report genuine concerns under the mechanism.
	
The 
Vigil 
Mechanism 
provides 
a 
channel 
including an online platform and telephonic 
hotline number for raising concerns directly 
with the management. It also provides adequate 
safeguards against victimization of persons who 
use such mechanism. The mechanism provides 
for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in appropriate or exceptional cases. 
During the year, no person has been denied 
access to the Audit Committee. The Whistle 
Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism is available on 
the website of the Company at https://www.
indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-
services.
	
Further, in order to ensure that complaints with 
respect to any wrong-doing / policy-breach by 
an employee or any third party were investigated 
appropriately and in order to ensure that actions 
to be taken against convicts were approved 
by an appropriate authority, the Company 
implemented a formal investigation protocol 
document.
	
Related Party Transaction Policy
	
In term of the provisions of the Listing 
Regulations, the Act and RBI Directions, the 
Board of Directors adopted a ‘Related Party 
Transaction Policy’ to ensure proper approval 
and reporting of transactions between the 
Company and its related parties. 
	
The Related Party Transaction Policy inter-
alia sets out criteria for identifying material 
related party transactions and includes the 
process and manner of approval of transactions 
with related parties, identification of related 
parties and identification of potential related 
party transactions. In terms of the Related 
Party Transaction Policy of the Company, 
any transaction with any related parties shall 
be considered to be appropriate only if it is 
in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders. 
	
The Related Party Transaction Policy is available 
on the website of the Company at https://www.
indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-
services.
	
Policy for Determining Material Subsidiary
	
In terms of the provisions of the Listing 
Regulations, the Board of Directors adopted a 
‘Policy for Determining Material Subsidiary’ which 
inter-alia sets out parameters for identifying a 
subsidiary as a “Material Subsidiary”. The Policy 
for Determining Material Subsidiary is available 
on the website of the Company at https://www.
indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-
services. 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
139
Annual Report 2024-25
138
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
Remuneration Policy
	
The success of any organization in achieving 
good performance and governance depends 
on its ability to attract quality individuals 
on the board. The Company has in place a 
remuneration policy which is guided by the 
principles and objectives as enumerated in 
section 178 of the Act, regulation 19 read with 
Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations 
and the RBI Directions.
	
The 
Policy 
covers 
aspects 
relating 
to 
remuneration to be paid to Directors including 
criteria for making payment to Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors, senior management 
including 
key 
managerial 
personnel 
and 
other employees of the Company, details on 
guaranteed bonus & recovery of annual bonus 
and modification of salary structure.
	
The Remuneration Policy is adopted to inter-
alia ensure that remuneration paid by the 
Company is in compliance with the requirements 
of the applicable law(s) and relationship of 
remuneration to performance is clear and meets 
appropriate 
performance 
benchmarks. 
The 
Remuneration Policy is available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner#investor-services.
	
Remuneration to Executive Director
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Company had two 
Executive Directors (“EDs”) on the Board viz. 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Whole-time Director 
designated as Chief Executive Officer and 
Mr. 
Randhir 
Singh, 
Whole-time 
Director 
designated as Executive Vice Chairman. The 
compensation paid to them is within the scale 
approved by the board and shareholders. 
The elements of compensation comprise a 
fixed component, performance incentive and 
employee stock options. The compensation is 
determined based on the level of responsibility 
and scales prevailing in the industry. EDs are not 
paid sitting fees for any board / committee meetings attended by them. The board upon recommendation 
of the NRC, may decide the quantum/portion of variable pay (cash and non-cash components) that will 
be subject to deferral based on the time horizon of the risks. Claw back provisions for deferred variable 
pay including cancellation of vested & unexercised ESOPs may be invoked by the board based on the 
recommendation of  NRC as per policy.
	
Details of the remuneration and other terms and conditions of appointment of the executive directors for 
the year ended March 31, 2025 are as follows:
 (` In crores)
Name of the Director
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan*
Mr. Randhir Singh#
Terms of contract
5 years with effect from  
March 30, 2023
5 years with effect from  
July 22, 2024
Notice period
6 months
3 months
Gross Salary
2.27 
2.25 
Fixed Bonus
1.00 
-   
Allowances
0.09          
0.02 
Incentives 
-   
-   
Perquisites  & Contributions
0.01 
- 
Reimbursement (Non Taxable)
0.10 
0.02
Total
3.47 
2.29
	
*Ceased to be whole-time Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company w.e.f. May 11, 2025
#Redesignated and appointed as Managing Director designed as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 11, 
2025 for remaining period of his term of appointment i.e. upto July 21, 2029
Notes:
Criteria for payment of performance linked incentive: The Performance Pay/Incentive is linked to assessment 
of performance. Performance assessment is based on achievement of individual targets linked to KRAs for 
the year, defined Level of performance for the role / individual, and Company’s / Business’s / Functions’ 
budgets /targets/ objectives and achievements.
	
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
	
Non-Executive Directors other than Independent 
Directors were not paid any remuneration during 
the year under review. Independent Directors of 
the Company were paid sitting fees of ` 75,000/- 
for every meeting of board and ` 40,000/- for 
every audit committee meeting and ` 25,000/- 
for every meeting of Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee, 
Nomination 
And 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Risk 
Management 
Committee, 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, IT 
strategy committee, Independent Director’s 
Meeting and others during the financial year 
2024-25.
	
Mentioned below are details of sitting fees paid/
payable to Non-Executive Independent Directors 
for attending Board and Committee Meetings 
held during the year under review: 
	
 (` In lakhs)
Name of the Director 
Sitting Fees
Mr. Bobby Parikh
15.30
Mr. Hemant Kaul
16.55
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
11.40
	
During the year under review, there were no 
pecuniary relationships or transactions between 
the Company and any of its Non-Executive 
Directors apart from payment of sitting fees. 
	
Dividend Distribution Policy 
	
In terms of the Listing Regulations and as an 
initiative towards setting out a good corporate 
governance structure within the organisation, 
the Board of Directors adopted a ‘Dividend 
Distribution Policy’ in line with Company’s idea 
of meeting the long term capital requirement 
from internal cash accruals and appropriately 
rewarding 
shareholders. 
The 
Dividend 
Distribution Policy prescribes parameters to 
be considered for declaring / recommending 
dividend and sets out indicative range and 
frequency of dividend pay-out. 
Stock Options: During the year, the details of stock options granted are as below:
Name of Director
Date of grant
No. of ESOPs 
granted
Exercise Price
Vesting period
Mr. Karthikeyan Sriniavsan
April 29, 2024
1,00,000
INR 253.35
25% each year over 4 years 
Mr. Randhir Singh
July 22, 2024
17,00,000
INR 250
8,00,000 - 25% each year over 
4 years
9,00,000 – Vesting in 5 years 
after date of joining subject 
to conditions as stated in the 
Management Agreement
	
The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company 
is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-
corner#investor-services.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company at its 
meeting held on April 29, 2024 considered 
and approved the amendments in Dividend 
Distribution Policy to align the same with the 
provisions of Master Direction - Reserve Bank of 
India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023. The brief of 
the amendments are as follow:
-	
Insertion of provisions relating to minimum 
prudential norms to be met for declaration 
of dividend;
-	
Insertion 
of 
following 
clauses 
under 
“Parameters to be considered for declaring/
recommending dividend:
o	
Supervisory findings of the Reserve 
Bank 
of 
India 
on 
divergence 
in 
classification and provisioning for NPAs;
o	
Qualifications, if any, in the auditors’ 
report to the financial statements.
-	
 Insertion of clause with respect to dividend 
pay-out ratio and frequency.
	
Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Policy
	
In accordance with Section 135 of the Act, the 
Company has constituted a Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee In terms of 
the provisions of the Act. The CSR Committee 
has formulated and recommended to the Board, 
a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (“CSR 
Policy”) indicating the activities to be undertaken 
by the Company, which has been approved by 
the Board. The Board of Directors has adopted 
a ‘CSR Policy’ which helps towards contribution 
and furtherance of the Company’s objective to 
create value in the society and community in 
which it operates, through its services, conduct 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
141
Annual Report 2024-25
140
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
and initiatives, so as to promote sustained growth 
for the society and community, in fulfillment of its 
role as a socially responsible corporate citizen. 
	
The CSR Policy of the Company inter-alia 
indicates the CSR activities that can be 
undertaken by the Company and defines the roles 
and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and 
CSR Committee in implementing and monitoring 
CSR projects identified and supported by the 
Company. 
	
The CSR Policy is available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-services.
	
Board Performance Evaluation Policy
	
In terms of the provisions of the Listing 
Regulations and the Act, the Board of Directors 
adopted 
a 
Board 
Performance 
Evaluation 
Policy to set out a formal mechanism for 
evaluating performance of the Board, that of its 
Committee(s) and individual Directors including 
the Chairman. Additionally, in order to outline 
detailed process and criteria for performance 
evaluation, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee has put in place the ‘Performance 
Evaluation Process – Board, Committees and 
Directors’, which forms an integral part of the 
Board Performance Evaluation Policy. 
	
The manner in which formal annual evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, its Committees 
and individual Directors including Chairman was 
conducted is given below: 
•	
A structured questionnaire prepared in 
accordance with the Board Performance 
Evaluation 
Policy 
and 
Performance 
Evaluation Process, inter-alia setting out 
criteria for evaluation of performance of 
the Board collectively, individual non-
independent directors and the Chairperson, 
was circulated to the Independent Directors 
and 
uploaded 
on 
the 
online 
portal. 
Performance ratings were given by the 
Independent Directors on the questionnaire 
circulated for each category to be evaluated 
by them at their separate meeting held.
•	
Based on Independent Directors feedback 
on the questionnaires, the Independent 
Directors, 
at 
their 
separate 
meeting, 
evaluated 
the 
performance 
of 
Non-
Independent Directors, the Board as a whole 
and the Chairman;
•	
Further, based on evaluation by Independent 
Directors and in light of the criteria 
prescribed in the Performance Evaluation 
Process, the Board analysed and evaluated 
its own performance, that of its Committees 
and each Director including the Chairman.
	
Performance 
Evaluation 
Criteria 
for 
Independent Directors
	
The Performance Evaluation Process adopted 
by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
inter-alia prescribes criteria for performance 
evaluation of Independent Directors. 
	
In terms of the performance evaluation process, 
performance of Independent Directors is to 
be evaluated broadly on parameters such as 
contribution towards strengthening corporate 
governance, financial reporting, development 
of strategy and risk management; relationship 
with other Board members; attendance and 
participation at the meetings of the Board, 
Committees and shareholders; understanding 
of the sector in which the Company operates, 
keeping up-to-date information about the 
Company and external environment in which 
it operates, latest developments in areas such 
as corporate governance, financial reporting 
and applicable regulatory aspects; level of 
integrity and confidentiality maintained by 
them, compliance with the Code of Conduct 
for 
Independent 
Directors, 
fulfillment 
of 
the 
prescribed 
Independence 
criteria 
and 
independence from the Management.
	
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading
	
The board has adopted a code to regulate, monitor 
and report trading by insiders in securities of 
the Company. The code inter-alia requires pre-
clearance for dealing in the securities of the 
Company and prohibits the purchase or sale of 
securities of the Company while in possession 
of unpublished price sensitive information in 
relation to the Company and during the period 
when the trading window is closed. The board 
has further approved the code for practices and 
procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished 
price sensitive information and policy governing 
the procedure of inquiry in case of actual or 
suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive 
information. The code has also been hosted on 
the website of the Company at https://www.
indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-
services. The Company has also put in place a 
structured digital database as required under 
Regulation 3(5) of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015.
V.	
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. No. Name of SMPs 
Designation
1.
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan^
Chief Executive Officer
2.
Mr. Randhir Singh*
Executive Vice Chairman
3.
Mr. Jayesh Jain**
Chief Financial Officer
4.
Ms. Shikha Jain
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
5.
Mrs. Rashmita Prajapati #
Chief Compliance Officer
6.
Mr. Kashinath Palekar
Head – Internal Audit
7.
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani
Chief Risk Officer
8.
Mr. Dipesh Mehta
Chief Product Officer
9.
Ms. Priya Prasad@
Chief Human Resource Officer
10.
Mr. Amit Kothari
Chief Technology Officer
11.
Mr. K V Bharadwaj
Chief Credit Officer
12.
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Head – Collections
13.
Mr. Devaraj C
Chief Business Officer
14.
Mr. Krishnamurthy Swaminathan
Head – Operations
15.
Mr. P Krishnan
Principal Officer
16.
Mr. Kekin Savla 
Head - Finance
17.
Mr. Kaushal Mithani
Head – Treasury
18.
Mr. Mihir Bhavsar
Chief Information Security Officer
	
^Resigned w.e.f. May 11, 2025
	
* Appointed w.e.f. July 22 2024
	
** Appointed w.e.f March 03, 2025
	
# Resigned on May 26, 2025
	
@ Resigned w.e.f. August 08, 2025
	
No Senior Management Personnel resigned during the year under review. Mr. VinodKumar Panicker retired 
as Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f. March 03, 2025.
VI.	 DETAILS OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES OF THE LISTED ENTITY AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Name of material subsidiary
Date and Place of 
incorporation
Name of statutory 
Auditors
Date of appointment 
of statutory auditors
Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited 
(Erstwhile 
IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)*
January 01, 2016 
Mumbai, Maharashtra
Kirtane & Pandit LLP; 
Chartered Accountants 
September 13, 2024 
	
*ceased to be the subsidiary of the Company w.e.f. July 17, 2025.
VII.	 GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
For Financial 
Year
Date
Time Special Resolutions passed
Venue
2021-22
September 
29, 2022
11:00 
a.m.
•	
Issue of Non-Convertible Debentures under Private 
Placement for aggregate principal amount not 
exceeding ` 3,000 crore, during a year. 
•	
Material Related Party Transaction for the amount 
not exceeding ` 1,000 crore with BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte Ltd., the holding company of the 
Company at arm’s length and in the ordinary course 
of business of the Company
Held through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ Other Audio 
Visual Means 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143
Annual Report 2024-25
142
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
For Financial 
Year
Date
Time Special Resolutions passed
Venue
2022-23
September 
18, 2023
10.30 
a.m.
•	
Issue of Non-Convertible Debentures under Private 
Placement for aggregate principal amount not 
exceeding ` 7,500 crore, during a year. 
•	
Material Related Party Transaction for the amount 
not exceeding ` 1,000 crore with BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte Ltd., the holding company of the 
Company at arm’s length and in the ordinary course 
of business of the Company
Held through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ Other Audio 
Visual Means
2023-24
September 
30, 2024
03:00 
p.m.
•	
Issue of Non-Convertible Debentures under Private 
Placement for aggregate principal amount not 
exceeding ` 6,000 crore, during a year. 
•	
Alteration of Articles of Association of the Company
Held through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ Other Audio 
Visual Means
	
Postal Ballot
	
The Company sought the approval of the Members on the Special Resolutions by way of Postal Ballot 
notice dated May 28, 2024, September 26, 2024, April 21, 2025 and July 03, 2025 which was passed with 
requisite majority on June 28, 2024,October 26, 2024, May 24, 2025 and August 03, 2025 respectively, 
details of same are mentioned below:
Sr. 
No
Ordinary/Special Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot
Voting percentage of 
shareholders participated
Postal Ballot Notice dated May 28, 2024
1.
Alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company.
% of vote in Favour: 99.79 
% of vote in Against: 0.21
2.
Appointment of Mr. Randhir Singh (DIN: 05353131) as the whole-time 
director on the Board of Directors of the Company designated as the 
Executive Vice Chairman.
% of vote in Favour: 99.79 
% of vote in Against: 0.21
3.
Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2018
% of vote in Favour: 99.79 
% of vote in Against: 0.21
4.	 Approval for proposed grant of stock options equal to or exceeding 1% 
(one percent) of issued capital of the Company under IndoStar ESOP 
Plan 2018 at the time of grant to identified employee(s)
% of vote in Favour: 99.79 
% of vote in Against: 0.21
Postal Ballot Notice dated September 26, 2024
1.	
Approve the sale of Indostar Home Finance Private Limited, a material 
subsidiary of the Company 
% of vote in Favour: 99.98 
% of vote in Against: 0.02
Postal Ballot Notice dated May 26, 2025
1.	
Appointment of Ms. Sujatha Mohan (DIN: 10743626) as a Non-
Executive Independent Director for a term of five consecutive years 
with effect from April 21, 2025
% of vote in Favour: 100.00 
% of vote in Against: 0.00
2.	 Appointment of Mr. Bobby Parikh (DIN: 00019437) as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director with effect from March 5, 2025
% of vote in Favour: 99.98 
% of vote in Against: 0.02
3.	 Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2012
% of vote in Favour: 99.76 
% of vote in Against: 0.24
4.	 Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2016
% of vote in Favour: 99.76 
% of vote in Against: 0.24
5.	 Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2016 - II
% of vote in Favour: 99.76 
% of vote in Against: 0.24
Sr. 
No
Ordinary/Special Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot
Voting percentage of 
shareholders participated
6.	 Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2017
% of vote in Favour: 99.76 
% of vote in Against: 0.24
7.	
Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2018
% of vote in Favour: 99.98 
% of vote in Against: 0.02
Postal Ballot Notice dated July 03, 2025
1.	
Re-designation and appointment of Mr. Randhir Singh as Managing 
Director designated as Executive Vice Chairman
% of vote in Favour: 99.76 
% of vote in Against: 0.24
	
Ms. Aditi Patnaik (ICSI Membership No. – 
A45308), Partner, M/s Mehta & Mehta , Practicing 
Company Secretaries, acted as the Scrutinizer, 
for conducting the Postal Ballot process 
dated June 28, 2024, in a fair and transparent 
manner.
	
Ms. Alifya Sapatwala (ICSI Membership No. - 
A24091), Partner, M/s Mehta & Mehta , Practicing 
Company Secretaries, acted as the Scrutinizer, 
for conducting the Postal Ballot process dated 
October 28, 2024 and May 26, 2025 in a fair and 
transparent manner.
	
Ms. Ashwini Inamdar (ICSI Membership No. – 
F9409), Partner, M/s Mehta & Mehta , Practicing 
Company Secretaries, acted as the Scrutinizer, 
for 
conducting 
the 
Postal 
Ballot 
process 
dated July 03, 2025 in a fair and transparent 
manner.
	
Procedure for postal ballot 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Listing 
Regulations, the Company provides facility to the 
members to exercise votes through electronic 
voting system (‘e-voting’). Postal ballot notices 
are sent to members/beneficial owners through 
email at their registered email IDs. The Company 
also publishes notice in the newspapers for 
the information of the members. Voting rights 
are reckoned on the equity shares held by the 
members as on the cut-off date.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Company 
appoints a scrutiniser for conducting the postal 
ballot process in a fair and transparent manner. 
The scrutiniser submits his/her consolidated 
report to the Chairman or any person authorized 
by him/her and the voting results are announced 
by the Chairman or any person authorized by 
him/her by placing the same along with the 
scrutiniser’s report on the Company’s website, 
besides being communicated to the stock 
exchanges. The resolution, if passed by requisite 
majority, is deemed to have been passed on the 
last date specified by the Company for closure 
of remote e-voting.
	
In view of the dispensation granted by MCA, 
postal ballot notice was sent through e-mail 
only, to all those members who had registered 
their e-mail ids with the Company/depositories 
and only e-voting facility was provided to the 
members to cast their votes. Arrangements were 
also made for other members to register their 
e-mail id to cast their vote online.
	
None of the businesses to be transacted at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting are proposed to 
be conducted through postal ballot. 
VIII.	MEANS OF COMMUNICATION 
•	
Quarterly and annual financial results of 
the Company are disseminated to stock 
exchanges 
and 
hosted 
on 
Company’s 
website;
•	
Quarterly and annual financial results are 
published in Business Standard and Praahar, 
as required under applicable law;
•	
Presentations 
and 
media 
releases 
on 
financial position and important events/ 
material developments of the Company are 
issued by the Company for information of 
investors;
•	
The Company arranges for investors calls / 
conferences for discussing financial position 
of the Company from time to time;
•	
The shareholders can also access the 
details of corporate governance policies, 
Board committees, financial information, 
shareholding 
information, 
details 
of 
unclaimed dividends, etc. on the Company’s 
website;
•	
Institutional 
investors 
/ 
analysts’ 
presentations 
and 
media 
releases 
are 
submitted to the stock exchanges and are 
also hosted on the Company’s website.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
145
Annual Report 2024-25
144
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IX.	 GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Annual General Meeting - Date, Time 
and Venue
16th Annual General Meeting
Date: September 25, 2025
Time: 2.00 p.m. (IST)
Mode of conducting the meeting: Video conferencing / other audio-
visual means 
Financial Year
April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025
Dividend Payment Date
Not Applicable 
Date of Book Closure 
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025 (both 
days inclusive)
Listing on Stock Exchanges
The BSE Limited (‘BSE”) 
(Equity Shares and Non-Convertible Debentures) 
Phiroze Jeejeeboy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) 
(Equity Shares) 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400 051
Payment of Annual Listing Fees
Requisite Annual Listing Fees has been paid to both the Stock 
Exchanges.
Stock Code
BSE: 541336 
NSE: INDOSTAR
In case the Securities are Suspended 
from Trading, the Directors Report 
shall explain the Reason thereof
Not applicable 
Registrar and Transfer Agents
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(Erstwhile Link Intime India Private Limited)
Address: C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083
Telephone: +91 22 49186270 
Fax: +91 22 49186060 
Email id: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in 
Share Transfer System
In terms of the Listing Regulations w.e.f. April 1, 2019, the Equity 
Shares of the Company can be transferred only in dematerialised 
form, except in case of request received for transmission or 
transposition of securities, which shall be approved by the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee.
Dematerialisation 
of 
Shares 
and 
Liquidity
Equity shares of the Company are available for trading only in 
dematerialised form under both the Depositories i.e. National 
Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited.
The International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted 
to the Company’s Equity Shares is INE896L01010. As on March 31, 
2025, 100% of Equity shares are held in dematrialised form.
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign 
Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities
Not applicable 
Utilisation of Funds raised through 
Preferential 
Allotment/Qualified 
Institutions Placement
During the year under review, the Company has raised ` 255.32 crore 
by way of Preferential allotment of warrants and the same was fully 
utilized towards objective stated in the respective offer document.
Plant Locations
Since the Company is engaged in the business of providing financial 
services, the Company does not have any manufacturing plant. 
It operates from its Registered & Corporate Office and branches 
located at different places throughout India.
Address for Correspondence
Ms. Shikha Jain 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Unit No. 301-A, 3rd Floor, Silver Utopia, Opposite P&G Plaza, Cardinal 
Gracious Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400099
Telephone: +91 22 43157000; 
Email id: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com 
List of Credit Ratings along with any 
revisions during the financial year 
LONG TERM 
Debt Programme
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE AA- /Stable
CRISIL Limited
CRISIL AA- /Stable
Market Linked Debentures
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE PP-MLD AA- /Stable
SHORT TERM DEBT PROGRAMME/COMMERCIAL PAPER:
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE A1+
CRISIL Limited
CRISIL A1+ 
	
Secretarial Audit
	
The Company annually conducts a secretarial 
audit by an independent practicing company 
secretary. For the year ended March 31, 2025, 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, 
had conducted the secretarial audit and the 
certificate was placed before the board and 
attached to this report.
	
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit
	
As required by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI), quarterly audit of the 
Company’s share capital is being carried out 
by an independent auditor with a view to 
reconcile the total share capital admitted with 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) 
and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(CDSL) and held in physical form, with the issued 
and listed capital. The certificate issued by an 
independent practicing company secretary is 
submitted to the stock exchanges and is also 
placed before the board of directors.
 
Compliance 
Certificate 
on 
Corporate 
Governance
	
The certificate on compliance of corporate 
governance 
norms 
from 
an 
independent 
practicing company secretary is annexed to the 
report.
	
Green initiative in corporate governance 
	
The Companies Act, 2013 and the underlying 
rules 
permit 
companies 
to 
send 
various 
documents including the financial statements 
through electronic mode to the shareholders. 
In compliance with the circulars issued by MCA 
and SEBI, electronic copies of the notice of the 
AGM and annual report for year under review 
will be sent to all the shareholders whose email 
addresses are registered with the Company 
/ depository participants. Shareholders are 
requested to register their e-mail ID with their 
depository participant, if the holding is in 
electronic mode. If shares are held in physical 
mode, the shareholders are requested to furnish 
their email addresses to RTA for receiving the 
above documents by electronic mode.
	
Transfer of Equity Shares to IEPF
	
In accordance with the provisions of section 124 
and 125 of the Act, read with Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (IEPF), 
the underlying shares of all dividends which 
remain unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven 
consecutive years be transferred to Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). As 
required under the said rules, the Company 
had sent out individual communication to the 
concerned shareholders whose dividend are 
unclaimed, informing them about the amount 
of unpaid dividend lying with the Company and 
requesting them to update their bank details by 
confirming the details to the attention of MUFG 
Intime India Pvt. Ltd. (Erstwhile Link Intime India 
Pvt. Ltd.), so as to claim the unpaid dividend 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
147
Annual Report 2024-25
146
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
amount and to ensure uninterrupted and timely 
payment of dividend in the future. 
	
During the year under review, no dividend or 
shares were liable to be transferred to IEPF 
account.
	
Dispute Resolution Mechanism 
	
SEBI has vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
MIRSD_ RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/76 dated 30th 
May, 
2022, 
issued 
a 
Standard 
Operating 
Procedure (SOP) for dispute resolution under 
Stock Exchanges Arbitration Mechanism, for 
dispute redressal between the Listed Company 
/ Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (RTA) and 
its shareholder(s) / investor(s). 
	
The Arbitration Mechanism shall be initiated 
post exhausting all actions for resolution of 
complaints including those received through 
SEBI SCORES Portal. 
	
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES):
	
Investor complaints are processed at SEBI in 
a centralised web-based complaints redress 
system. The salient features of this system are 
centralised database of all complaints, online 
upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by 
concerned companies and online viewing by 
investors of actions taken on the complaints and 
their current status.
	
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025:
Sr. 
No.
No. of Equity  
Shares – Range
Shareholders
Shareholding 
No. of equity 
shareholders
% of total equity 
shareholders
No. of equity 
shares held
% of total equity 
shares
1
1
-
500
61,309
96.04
27,03,468
1.98
2
501
-
1000
957
1.50
7,55,265
0.55
3
1001
-
2000
577
0.90
8,79,771
0.64
4
2001
-
3000
246
0.39
6,42,351
0.47
5
3001
-
4000
125
0.20
4,49,227
0.33
6
4001
-
5000
106
0.17
4,99,983
0.36
7
5001
- 10000
228
0.36
17,17,134
1.26
8
10001 & above
263
0.37
12,84,50,248
94.41
Total
63,839 
100.00
13,60,97,447
100.00
	
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2025:
Sr. 
No.
Category of Shareholder
No. of equity shares 
% of total equity shares 
A
Promoter & Promoter Group
1
Promoter
9,97,45,221
73.29
2
Promoter Group
-
-
 
Total (A)
9,97,45,221
73.29
B
 
1
Mutual Funds
15,037
0.01
2
Alternative Investment Fund
12,84,584 
 0.94
3
Foreign Portfolio Investors
36,46,335
2.68 
4
Financial Institutions / Banks
- 
- 
4
Insurance Companies
18,18,778
1.34 
5
Directors and their relatives
1,100
0.00
6
Individuals
1,81,84,363 
13.36 
7
Non-Resident Indians
10,06,007
0.74
8
Foreign Nationals
-
-
9
Bodies Corporate
79,01,679
5.81
10 Others
24,94,342
1.82
 
Total (B)
363,52,226
26.71
Total (A+B)
13,60,97,447
100.00 
X.	
OTHER DISCLOSURES
	
Related party transactions: All transactions with related parties that were entered into during the financial 
year were in the ordinary course of business and were on an arm’s length basis. There were no material 
transactions with related parties i.e., transactions of the Company of material nature, with its promoters, the 
directors or the management, their subsidiaries, or relatives, etc., that may have potential conflict with the 
interest of company at large. Suitable disclosures as required in compliance with accounting standards with 
related parties are disclosed in Note No. 33 of the financial statements in the annual report.
	
The board has put in place a policy on related party transactions and the same has been uploaded on the 
Company’s website at https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner/ 
	
Disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries of ‘Loans and advances’ in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are interested by name and amount: Suitable disclosures as required in 
compliance with accounting standards in which directors are interested are disclosed in Note No. 33 of the 
financial statements in the annual report.
	
Materially significant related party transactions: During the year under review, the Company had not 
entered into any materially significant related party transaction that may have potential conflict with the 
interests of the Company at large. 
	
Details of non-compliance: Except as mentioned below, there were no instances of non-compliance, 
penalties, strictures imposed on the Company by stock exchange(s) or the SEBI or any statutory authority, 
on any matter related to capital markets, during the last three years:
For Financial 
Year
Action taken by
Details of violation
Details of action taken e.g. fines, 
warning letter, debarment, etc. for 
the last three years
2024-25
BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
& 
National 
Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited (“NSE”)
Non-compliance 
with 
the 
requirements pertaining to 
the composition of the Board 
of Directors as per Regulation 
17(1) of Listing Regulations
BSE and NSE levied a fine of ` 1,35,000 
each including applicable GST vide 
email dated May 29, 2025
2024-25
BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
& 
National 
Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited (“NSE”)
Non-compliance 
with 
the 
requirements 
pertaining 
to 
the 
composition 
of 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Committee as 
per Regulation 19(2) of Listing 
Regulations
BSE and NSE levied a fine of ` 54,000 
each including applicable GST vide 
email dated May 29, 2025
2023-24
BSE Limited (“BSE”)
Delay in intimation of payment 
of Interest on non-convertible 
debentures under Regulation 
57(1) of Listing Regulations.
BSE levied a fine of ` 12,000 excluding 
applicable GST vide email dated April 
30, 2024.
2023-24
BSE Limited (“BSE”)
Delay in intimation of record 
date 
for 
the 
purpose 
of 
payment of interest on non-
convertible debentures under 
Regulation 
60 
of 
Listing 
Regulations.
BSE levied a fine of ` 10,000 each 
excluding applicable GST vide email 
dated April 01, 2024.
2023-24
Reserve Bank of India 
(“RBI”)
Non-compliances 
observed 
by the RBI in its statutory 
inspection of the Company 
with 
reference 
to 
the 
Company’s financial position 
as on March 31, 2022
RBI vide its order and press release 
received by the Company on March 
13, 2024, has imposed a monetary 
penalty on the Company aggregating 
to ` 13.60 lakhs.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
149
Annual Report 2024-25
148
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
For Financial 
Year
Action taken by
Details of violation
Details of action taken e.g. fines, 
warning letter, debarment, etc. for 
the last three years
2023-24
BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
and National Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited (“NSE")
Delay 
in 
submission 
of 
Secretarial 
Compliance 
Report under Regulation 24A 
of the Listing Regulations
BSE & NSE levied a fine of ` 4,000 
each excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated June 26, 2023.
2023-24
BSE Limited (“BSE”)
Delay in intimation of record 
date for the purpose of buy 
back 
of 
non-convertible 
debentures under Regulation 
60 of Listing Regulations.
BSE levied a fine of ` 10,000 each 
excluding applicable GST vide email 
dated October 18, 2023.
2023-24
BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
and National Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited (“NSE")
Non-submission 
of 
prior 
intimation about the meeting 
of the board of directors 
under Regulation 29 of the 
Listing Regulations
BSE & NSE levied a fine of ` 10,000 
each excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated February 14, 2024
2022- 23
BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
and National Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited (“NSE")
*Non-maintenance 
of 
minimum public shareholding 
of at least 25% as required 
under Rule 19(2) and 19A 
of the Securities Contract 
(Regulations) Rules, 1957 read 
with Regulation 38 of the 
Listing Regulations 
Total penalty of ` 35,00,000 excluding 
applicable GST had been levied by 
NSE and BSE as detailed below:
1.	 BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 4,55,000 each excluding 
applicable GST during the quarter 
ended June 30, 2022
2.	 BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 8,85,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the quarter 
ended September 30, 2022.
3.	 BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 9,20,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the quarter 
ended December 30, 2022.
4.	 BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 12,40,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the period 
January 01, 2023 to 4 May 2023. 
i.e. till the date of non-compliance.
Mail dated 14 March 2023 from BSE 
and NSE intimating action of freezing 
against the Promoter and Promoter 
Group of the Company as per SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI Circular No. CFD/
CMD/CIR/P/2017/115 dated October 
10, 2017
For Financial 
Year
Action taken by
Details of violation
Details of action taken e.g. fines, 
warning letter, debarment, etc. for 
the last three years
2022-23
BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
and National Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited (“NSE")
Delay in submission of audited 
financial results (standalone 
and 
consolidated) 
of 
the 
Company for the quarter and 
financial year ended March 
31, 2022 and other Company 
updates 
1.	 BSE & NSE levied a fine of ` 
1,50,000 each excluding applicable 
GST vide email dated June 29, 
2022 for the quarter ended March 
31, 2022.
2.	 BSE & NSE levied a fine of 
` 
1,90,000 
and 
` 
2,30,000 
respectively excluding applicable 
GST vide email dated July 15, 2022 
for the quarter ended March 31, 
2022.
2022-23
BSE Limited
Delay in disclosure of line 
items 
prescribed 
under 
Regulation 52(4) of Listing 
Regulations along with the 
half yearly / annual financial 
results
1.	 BSE 
levied 
a 
fine 
of 
` 
30,000excluding applicable GST 
vide email dated June 29, 2022 for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2022.
2.	 BSE 
levied 
a 
fine 
of 
` 
46,000excluding applicable GST 
vide email dated July 15, 2022 for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2022.
2022-23
BSE Limited
Delay in disclosure of extent 
and nature of security created 
and maintained with respect 
to secured listed NCDs in 
the financial statements as 
per Regulation 54(2) of the 
Listing Regulations
1.	 BSE 
levied 
a 
fine 
of 
` 
30,000excluding applicable GST 
vide email dated June 29, 2022 for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2022.
2.	 BSE levied a fine of ` 46,000 
excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated July 15, 2022 for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2022.
2022-23
BSE Limited
Delay 
in 
submission 
of 
statement 
indicating 
the 
utilization of issue proceeds/ 
material deviation in the use 
of proceeds of nonconvertible 
debentures as per Regulation 
52(7) 
of 
the 
Listing 
Regulations
BSE levied a fine of ` 10,000excluding 
applicable GST vide email dated 
December 26, 2022 for the quarter 
ended March 31, 2022.
	
Compliance with Mandatory Requirements and 
adoption of the Non-Mandatory Requirements 
of Corporate Governance:
	
The Company has complied with the mandatory 
requirements 
including 
requirements 
of 
corporate governance norms as specified in 
Regulation 17 to Regulation 27 and clauses (b) 
to clause (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 
46 and paragraph C, D and E of schedule V of 
the Listing Regulations, as applicable to the 
Company for financial year ended March 31, 
2025 except as stated below:
-	
Non-compliance with Regulation 17(1)(b) of 
Listing Regulation with respect to having 
atleast 1/3rd of the Board of Directors as 
Independent Directors with effect from 
March 5, 2025:
	
Consequent to the expiry of the term of Mr. 
Bobby Parikh, as an Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Company on March 04, 
2025, the Board of the Company consisted 
of only 2 Independent Directors, as against 
the requirement of having a minimum of 1/3rd 
of the Board of Directors as independent. The 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
151
Annual Report 2024-25
150
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Company appointed Ms. Sujatha Mohan (DIN: 
10743626) as an Independent Director w.e.f. 
April 21, 2025 and the Company has since been 
in compliance with the Regulation 17((1)(b) of 
the Listing Regulations.
-	
Non-compliance 
with 
Regulation 
19(2) 
of Listing Regulation with respect to 
the Chairman of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee with effect from 
March 5, 2025:
	
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy who was appointed as 
the chairperson of the Board was also appointed 
as chairperson of the NRC w.e.f. March 5, 2025 
which was not in line with the requirements of 
Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations. On April 
29, 2025, Mr. Hemant Kaul was again appointed 
as Chairman of the Committee and the Company 
has since been in compliance with the Regulation 
19(2) of the Listing Regulations.
	
A certificate from Mehta & Mehta, Practicing 
Company Secretary, to that effect is annexed 
to this Corporate Governance Report. The 
Company has also adopted the following 
discretionary requirements specified in Part E 
of Schedule II in terms of regulation 27(1) of the 
Listing Regulations:
-	
Modified 
opinion(s) 
in 
audit 
report: 
Company’s 
financial 
statements 
have 
unmodified audit opinions.
-	
The Board of Directors of the Company has 
resolved not to pay any remuneration to 
the Chairman to act in the capacity of the 
Chairman.
-	
The positions of Chairperson and that of 
Chief Executive Officer, respectively, are 
held by two different persons.
-	
The internal auditors of the Company report 
directly to the Audit Committee of the 
Board.
	
Details of non-compliance with requirements 
of Companies Act, 2013
	
The Company is in compliance with the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, including with respect to compliance with 
accounting and secretarial standards except as 
stated below:
-	
The Company was in non-compliance with 
the provisions of Section 149(4) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 with respect to having 
atleast 1/3rd of the Board of Directors as 
Independent Directors with effect from 
March 5, 2025 to April 20, 2025. 
	
Payment made to Statutory Auditor of the 
Company 
	
Details relating to the fees paid to the statutory 
auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, 
during the financial year 2024-25, is stated in 
Note 29 of the notes to consolidated financial 
statements, which forms part of this Annual 
Report. 
	
Disclosure with respect to demat suspense 
account/unclaimed suspense account: 
	
No equity shares of the Company were lying in 
demat suspense account/unclaimed suspense 
account as on March 31, 2025.
	
Outstanding 
GDRs/ADRs/Warrants 
or 
any 
convertible instruments, conversion and likely 
impact on equity capital
	
The Company does not have any GDRs/ADRs or 
other convertible instruments as March 31, 2025.
	
The number of outstanding warrants as on 
March 31, 2025 are 2,48,18,888 (Two Crores Forty 
Eights Lakhs Eighteen Thousand Eight Hundred 
Eighty Eight). Each warrant is convertible into, 
or exchangeable for, 1 (one) fully paid-up equity 
share of the Company of face value ` 10 (Indian 
Rupees Ten) each.
	
Assuming the full conversion of warrants, the shareholding pattern of the Company would be as follow:
Category
Pre-shareholding pattern  
(As on March 31, 2025)
Post shareholding pattern
No. of shares
Percentage
No. of shares
Percentage
Promoters
9,97,45,221
73.29
113,694,544
70.65
Public
3,63,52,226
26.71
4,72,21,971
29.35
Total
13,60,97,447
100.00
16,09,16,335
100.00
	
Commodity price risk and hedging activities
	
The Company does not deal with any commodity and hence not exposed to any commodity price risk and 
commodity hedging activities as on March 31, 2025.
XI.	 DECLARATION BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY UNDER REGULATION 34(3) READ 
WITH PARAGRAPH D OF SCHEDULE V OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS
	
I, Randhir Singh, Managing Director and Executive Vice Chairman of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
hereby declare that all the Members of the Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel have 
affirmed compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025.
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 13, 2025
Randhir Singh
Managing Director & Executive Vice Chairman
DIN: 05353131
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
153
Annual Report 2024-25
152
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To,  
The Members, 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED 
Office No- 301, Wing A, CTS No 477 
Silver Utopia, Chakala Road, 
Opposite Proctor and Gamble, Andheri (E),  
Sahargaon, Mumbai- India 400099	
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
(hereinafter referred as “Company”) for the Financial year ended March 31, 2025 as prescribed under Regulations 
17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and paras C, D and E of Schedule V of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
referred as “Listing Regulations”). 
We state that compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management, and 
our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring 
compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to our examination of the relevant records 
and the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as prescribed under Listing Regulations except the following observations:
1.	
Regulation 17(1) (b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 prescribes the requirement of having at least one-third of the Board of 
Directors as Independent Directors. However, the composition of the Board was not duly constituted in 
the absence of requisite number of Independent Directors from the period starting from March 5, 2025.
2.	 The Company has failed to adhere to Regulation 19(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 by appointing Chairperson of the 
Board, Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy, as the Chairperson of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
effective March 05, 2025.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
This certificate is issued solely for the purposes of complying with Listing Regulations and may not be suitable 
for any other purpose.
For Mehta & Mehta 
Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
Alifya Sapatwala 
Partner 
ACS No: 24091 
CP No.: 24895 
Place: Mumbai 	
PR no.: 3686/2023 
Date: July 11, 2025 	
UDIN: A024091G000758693
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS PURSUANT TO POINT 10(I) 
OF PARAGRAPH C OF SCHEDULE V OFSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS,2015
To, 
The Members, 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
We have examined all the relevant records maintained by IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (“the Company”) 
and disclosures, notices and confirmations submitted by Directors of the Company, for the purpose of issuing 
a certificate under Regulation 34 (3) read with point 10(i) of paragraph C of Schedule V of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing 
Regulations”) for financial year ended March 31, 2025.
In our opinion and to the best of our knowledge, based on the information furnished to us by the Company and 
the Directors of the Company and based on necessary verification by us, we certify that none of the following 
Directors, who were on the Board of Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2025, have been debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director on the Board of the Company by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India / Ministry of Corporate Affairs or anysuch statutory authority:
Sr. No. Name of Director
Director Identification Number
1.
 Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
01216114 
2.
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
02018124
3.
Mr. Aditya Joshi
08684627
4.
Mr. Devdutt Vinayak Marathe
 10294876
5.
Mr. Hemant Kaul
00551588
6.
Mr. Bobby Parikh 
00019437
7.
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
10056556
8.
Mr. Randhir Singh
05353131
For H Choudhary& Associates 
Company Secretaries
CS Harnatharam Choudhary 
Proprietor 
Membership No.: F8274 
Place: Mumbai 	
C.P. No.: 9369 
Date: July 28, 2025 	
UDIN number: F008274G000873644
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
155
154
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE 
LIMITED 
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OPINION
We have audited the accompanying standalone 
financial statements of IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Statement 
of Profit and Loss, including Other Comprehensive 
Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, 
and notes to the standalone financial statements, 
including material accounting policy information and 
other explanatory information (hereinafter referred 
to as the “standalone financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act’) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards 
prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended (the “Rules”), the RBI Guidelines 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 
31, 2025, and profit (including other comprehensive 
income), changes in equity and its cash flows for the 
year ended on that date.
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (“SAs”) specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the standalone financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the Code of 
Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained 
by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the standalone financial statements for 
the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters 
to be communicated in our report.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters was addressed in our 
audit
1
Impairment of loans including Expected Credit Losses 
(“ECL”):
Total Loans as at March 31, 2025:  Rs. 7,21,651.85 lakhs 
(net of ECL)
Impairment Provision as at March 31, 2025:  
Rs. 24,744.84 lakhs
(Refer Note 5 of the Standalone Financial Statements)
As per Ind AS 109 - Financial Instruments (“Ind AS 
109”) requires the Company to provide for impairment 
of its financial assets using ECL approach involving an 
estimation of probability of loss on such financial assets, 
considering reasonable and supportable information 
about past events, current conditions and forecasts 
of future economic conditions which could impact the 
credit quality of the Company’s financial assets. 
Our audit procedures in respect of this area 
included, but not limited to:
Process understanding and control testing:
•	
Read the Company’s Board approved ECL 
policy 
and 
material 
accounting 
policy 
information for estimation of ECL on financial 
assets and evaluated the appropriateness of 
the same with the principles of Ind AS 109;
•	
Performed end-to-end process walkthroughs 
to identify the controls used in the impairment 
loss allowance processes;
•	
Tested 
the 
design 
and 
the 
operating 
effectiveness of relevant internal controls, 
including the IT controls relevant to the 
impairment loss allowance process;
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters was addressed in our 
audit
The estimation of impairment loss allowance on loan 
assets involves significant judgement and estimates, 
which are subject to uncertainty, and involves applying 
appropriate measurement principles in case of loss 
events.
ECL is calculated using the percentage of probability 
of default (“PD”), loss given default (“LGD”) and 
exposure at default (“EAD”) for each of the stages of 
loan portfolio. Significant management judgment and 
assumptions involved in measuring ECL is required 
with respect to:
•	
Segmentation of loan book in buckets based on 
common risk characteristics;
•	
Staging of loans and in particular determining 
the criteria, which includes qualitative factors for 
identifying a significant increase in credit risk (i.e. 
Stage 2) and credit-impaired (i.e. Stage 3);
•	
Factoring in future macro-economic and industry 
specific estimates and forecasts;
•	
past experience and forecast data on customer 
behaviour on repayments and;
•	
varied 
statistical 
modelling 
techniques 
to 
determine probability of default, loss given 
default and exposure at default basis, the default 
history of loans, subsequent recoveries made and 
other relevant factors using probability weighted 
scenarios.
Considering the significance of the above matter to 
the Financial Statements and since the matter required 
significant attention to test the calculation of ECL, we 
identified this as a key audit matter for current year 
audit.
•	
Verified the completeness and accuracy of 
the EAD and the classification thereof into 
stages consistent with the definitions applied 
in accordance with the policy approved by 
the Board of Directors; and
•	
Checked the appropriateness of information 
used in the estimation of the PD and LGD for 
the different stages depending on the nature 
of the portfolio;
Performed the following substantive procedures 
on sample of loan assets:
•	
Tested 
appropriateness 
of 
staging 
of 
borrowers based on days past due (“DPD”) 
and other loss indicators;
	
Tested the factual accuracy of information 
such as period of default, ratings (wherever 
applicable) and other related information 
used in estimating the PD;
•	
Evaluated 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
LGD 
estimates by comparing actual recoveries 
post the loan asset becoming credit impaired 
and other applicable assumptions included in 
LGD computation;
•	
Evaluated 
the 
methodology 
used 
to 
determine macroeconomic overlays and 
adjustments to the output of the ECL model;
•	
Tested the completeness of loans included 
in the ECL calculations as of March 31, 2025 
by reconciling such data with the balances as 
per loan book register;
•	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness 
of disclosures in compliance with the Ind AS 
107 in relation to ECL especially in relation 
to judgements used in estimation of ECL 
provision;
•	
Along with the assistance of the auditor's 
expert, verified the appropriateness of 
methodology and models used by the 
Company 
and 
reasonableness 
of 
the 
assumptions used within the computation 
process to estimate the impairment provision;
•	
Evaluated 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
the 
judgement involved in management overlays 
that form part of the impairment provision, 
and the related approvals; and
•	
Evaluated the adequacy of presentation 
and disclosures in relation to impairment 
loss allowance in the standalone financial 
statements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
157
156
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters was addressed in our 
audit
2
Information Technology (“IT”) systems and controls 
impacting financial controls
The Company key financial accounting and reporting 
processes are highly dependent on information 
systems including automated controls in systems, 
such that there exists a risk that gaps in the IT control 
environment could result in the financial accounting 
and reporting records being misstated.
Amongst its multiple IT systems, we scoped in systems 
that are key for overall financial reporting.
Appropriate IT general controls and application 
controls are required to ensure that such IT systems 
are able to process the data, as required, completely, 
accurately and consistently for reliable financial 
reporting.
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as a key 
audit matter considering the high level of automation, 
significant 
number 
of 
systems 
being 
used 
by 
Management and the complexity of the IT architecture 
and its impact on overall financial reporting process 
and regulatory expectation on automation.
Key IT audit procedures performed included the 
following, but not limited to:
•	
For testing the IT general controls, application 
controls and IT dependent manual controls, 
we involved IT specialists as part of the 
audit. The team also assisted in testing the 
accuracy of the information produced by the 
Company IT systems.
•	
Obtained a comprehensive understanding 
of IT applications landscape implemented 
at the Company. It was followed by process 
understanding, mapping of applications to 
the same and understanding financial risks 
posed by people-process and technology.
•	
Key IT audit procedures includes testing 
design 
and 
operating 
effectiveness 
of 
key controls operating over user access 
management (which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, 
password configuration review, segregation 
of duties and privilege access), change 
management (which include change release 
in production environment are compliant 
to the defined procedures and segregation 
of 
environment 
is 
ensured), 
program 
development (which include review of data 
migration activity), computer operations 
(which includes testing of key controls 
pertaining to backup, Batch processing 
(including 
interface 
testing), 
incident 
management and data centre security), 
System interface controls. This included 
testing that requests for access to systems 
were appropriately logged, reviewed, and 
authorized.
•	
In addition to the above, the design and 
operating effectiveness of certain automated 
controls, that were considered as key internal 
system controls over financial reporting were 
tested. Using various techniques such as 
inquiry, review of documentation / record / 
reports, observation, and re-performance. 
We also tested few controls using negative 
testing technique.
•	
Tested compensating controls and performed 
alternate procedures, where necessary. In 
addition, understood where relevant changes 
made to the IT landscape during the audit 
period.
INFORMATION OTHER THAN THE STANDALONE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITOR’S REPORT 
THEREON
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the Annual Report but does not include 
the standalone financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be 
made available to us after the date of this auditor’s 
report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it becomes 
available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
standalone financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. 
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance under SA 720 ‘The Auditor’s 
responsibilities Relating to Other Information’. 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS FOR THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view 
of the financial position, financial performance, 
changes in equity and cash flows of the Company 
in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards specified under section 133 
of the Act and RBI Guidelines. This responsibility 
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the standalone 
financial statement that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible 
for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
reporting 
process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF 
THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error 
and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these standalone financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement 
of 
the 
standalone financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher 
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
159
158
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
•	
Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
material 
accounting policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by Management and Board of Directors.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may 
cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of 
our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the standalone financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
standalone financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the 
standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 and are therefore, the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) 
of section 143 of the Act, we give in “Annexure 
A” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we 
report that:
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to the 
best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account 
as required by law have been kept by the 
Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books, except for the 
matters stated in the paragraph 2(h)(vi) 
below on reporting under Rule 11(g).
(c)	 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit 
and Loss including Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity 
and the Statement of Cash Flow dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the 
books of account.
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements comply with the Indian 
Accounting 
Standards 
specified 
under 
Section 133 of the Act.
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 
31, 2025 taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors are 
disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act.
(f)	 The reservation relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in paragraph 2(b) 
above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) 
and paragraph 2(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g).
(g)	 With respect to the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate Report 
in “Annexure B”.
(h)	 With respect to the other matters to 
be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our 
opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to 
us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact 
of pending litigations on its financial 
position in its standalone financial 
statements – Refer Note 35 to the 
standalone financial statements;
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-
term contracts including derivative 
contracts for which there were any 
material foreseeable losses.
iii.	
There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company.
	
	
iv.	
a.	
The Management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in Note 42.2 to 
the standalone financial statements, 
no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or 
any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Company to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
b.	
The Management has represented, 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, as disclosed in Note 
42.2 to the standalone financial 
statements no funds have been 
received by the Company from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Funding Parties), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
as on the date of this audit report, 
that the Company shall, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other 
person(s) or entity(ies) identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
c.	
Based on the audit procedures 
performed 
that 
have 
been 
considered 
reasonable 
and 
appropriate in the circumstances, 
and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us 
by the Management in this regard 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as provided 
under (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material mis-statement.
v.	
The Company has neither declared nor 
paid any dividend during the year.
vi.	
Based 
on 
our 
examination 
which 
included test checks, the Company 
has used certain accounting software 
for maintaining its books of account 
(including two accounting software 
managed and maintained by a third-
party software service provider) which 
has a feature of recording audit trail (edit 
log) facility, except that as explained in 
Note 42.2 to the standalone financial 
statements, no audit trail feature was 
enabled at the database level in respect 
of certain accounting software to log 
any direct data changes and in case 
of one software, the audit trail feature 
at the database level was not enabled 
from April 01, 2024 to June 30, 2024.
	
Further, where enabled, the audit trail 
feature has been operated for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the accounting 
software. Also, during the course of our 
audit and considering SOC report, we 
did not come across any instance of 
audit trail feature being tampered with 
in respect of such accounting software. 
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year 
has been preserved by the Company 
as per the statutory requirements for 
record retention to the extent it was 
enabled and recorded in previous year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
161
160
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
3.	
In our opinion, according to information, 
explanations given to us, the remuneration 
paid by the Company to its directors is within 
the limits laid prescribed under Section 197 
read with Schedule V of the Act and the rules 
thereunder. 
For M S K A & Associates 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Tushar Kurani 
Partner 
Mumbai	
Membership Number: 118580 
April 29, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118580BMOHVY1090 
ANNEXURE “A”
TO INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31,2025
Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the 
Independent Auditors’ Report
i.	
(a)	 A	
The Company has maintained proper 
records 
showing 
full 
particulars 
including 
quantitative 
details 
and 
situation 
of 
property, 
plant 
and 
equipment and relevant details of right-
of-use assets.
	
	
B	
The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars of 
intangible assets.
(b)	 Property, 
Plant 
and 
Equipment 
were 
physically verified by the management 
according to a phased programme designed 
to cover all items over a period of three 
years which, in our opinion, is reasonable 
having regard to the size of the Company 
and the nature of its assets. Pursuant to 
the programme, a portion of Property, 
plant and equipment have been physically 
verified by Management during the year. No 
material discrepancies were noticed on such 
verification.
(c)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and on the basis 
of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the title deeds of immovable 
properties (other than properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of 
the lessee) as disclosed in the standalone 
financial statements, are held in the name of 
the Company.
(d)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us, the Company 
has not revalued its property, plant and 
Equipment (including Right of Use assets) 
and intangible assets during the year. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(i)(d) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
(e)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us, no proceeding 
has been initiated or pending against the 
Company for holding benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) 
Act, 1988, as amended and rules made 
thereunder. 
Accordingly, 
the 
provisions 
stated under clause 3(i)(e) of the Order are 
not applicable to the Company.
ii.	
(a)	 The Company is involved in the business of 
rendering services and does not hold any 
inventory. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(ii)(a) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 During the year the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess 
of Rs. 5 crores in aggregate from Banks and 
financial institutions on the basis of security 
of Loan assets and other assets. Based on 
the records examined by us in the normal 
course of audit of the standalone financial 
statements, quarterly returns / statements 
filed with such Banks/ financial institutions 
are in agreement with the books of accounts 
of the Company. 
iii.	
(a)	 As explained in Note 1 to the Financial 
Statements, the Company is a non-deposit 
taking 
non-banking 
financial 
company 
(“NBFC”) registered with the RBI and as 
part of its business activities, is engaged in 
the business of lending across various types 
of loans. The Company’s principal business 
is to give loans and is a registered NBFC. 
Accordingly, provisions stated under clause 
3(iii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(b)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and based on the 
audit procedures performed by us, we are 
of the opinion that the investments made, 
guarantees provided, securities given and 
terms and conditions in relation to grant of 
all loans and advances in the nature of loans, 
investments made, guarantees provided 
and securities given are not prejudicial to 
the interest of the Company.
(c)	 In respect of the aforesaid loans and 
advances in nature of loans, the schedule 
of repayment of principal and payment 
of interest have been stipulated by the 
Company. Considering that the Company is 
a Non-Banking Financial Company engaged 
in the business of granting loans, the entity-
wise details of the amount, due date for 
payment and extent of delay (that has been 
suggested in the Guidance Note on CARO 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
163
162
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
2020 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India for reporting under this clause) have not 
been detailed hereunder because it is not practicable to furnish such details owing to the voluminous 
nature of data generated in the normal course of the Company’s business. 
	
Further, except for the instances where there are delays or defaults in repayment of principal and/or 
interest and in respect of which the Company has recognized necessary provisions in accordance with 
the principles of Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank 
of India (“RBI”) for Income Recognition and Asset Classification (which has been disclosed by the 
Company in Note 46 to the Standalone Financial Statements), the parties are repaying the principal 
amounts, as stipulated, and are also regular in payment of interest, as applicable.
(d)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the details of amount overdue for more than ninety days, on the loans and 
advances in the nature of loans, are as follows: 
No.of 
Cases
Principal 
amount overdue 
(in lakhs)
Interest 
overdue  
(in lakhs)
Total 
overdue 
(in lakhs)
Remarks (if any)
2,847
4,088.94
2,719.69
6,808.63
According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanation given to us, reasonable steps 
have been taken by the Company for 
recovery of principal amount and interest.
and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, are not applicable 
to the Company. According to the information 
and explanations given to us, no order has been 
passed by the Company Law Board or National 
Company Law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India 
or any Court or any other Tribunal in this respect.
vi.	
The provisions of sub-Section (1) of Section 148 
of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable 
to the Company as the Central Government of 
India has not specified the maintenance of cost 
records for any of the products/ services of the 
Company. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(vi) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
vii.	 (a)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and the records of 
the Company examined by us, in our opinion, 
undisputed statutory dues including goods 
and services tax, provident fund, employees’ 
state insurance, income-tax, cess, and 
other statutory dues have been regularly 
deposited by the Company with appropriate 
authorities in all cases during the year.
	
There are no undisputed amounts payable 
in respect of Goods and Services tax, 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, cess, and other statutory dues 
in arrears as at March 31, 2025, outstanding 
for a period of more than six months from 
the date they became payable.
(e)	 The company’s principal business is to give 
loans and is a registered NBFC, accordingly, 
provisions stated under clause 3(iii)(e) of 
the Order is not applicable.
(f)	 According to the information explanation 
provided to us, the Company has not any 
granted loans and / or advances in the 
nature of loans, including to promoters or 
related parties as defined in clause (76) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 either 
repayable on demand or without specifying 
any terms or period of repayment during 
the year. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
iv.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no loans, guarantees and 
security in respect of which provisions of Section 
185 of the Companies Act, 2013, are applicable 
to the Company. The Company has also not 
made investments through more than two layer 
of investment companies in accordance with the 
provisions of section 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013. Hence, the requirement to report under 
clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company. 
v.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company being Non-Banking 
Financial 
Company 
registered 
with 
RBI, 
provisions of Sections 73 to 76 or any other 
relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
(b)	 According to the information and explanation 
given to us and the records of the Company 
examined by us, there are no dues relating 
to goods and services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, cess, 
and other statutory dues which have not 
been deposited on account of any dispute.
viii.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no transactions which are 
not accounted in the books of account which 
have been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in Income-tax Assessment of 
the Company. Accordingly, the provision stated 
under clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
ix.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations given to us 
and the records of the Company examined 
by us, the Company has not defaulted in 
repayment of loans or borrowings or in 
payment of interest thereon to any lender.
(b)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and on the basis 
of our audit procedures, we report that 
the Company has not been declared wilful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
(c)	 In our opinion and according to the 
information 
and 
explanations 
provided 
to us, money raised by way of term loans 
during the year have been applied for the 
purpose for which they were raised.
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, and the procedures performed 
by us, and on an overall examination of 
the standalone financial statements of the 
Company, we report that no funds raised on 
short-term basis have been used for long-
term purposes by the Company.
(e)	 According to the information explanation 
given to us and on an overall examination 
of the standalone financial statements of 
the Company, we report that the Company 
has not taken any funds from an any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries. 
(f)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and procedures 
performed by us, we report that the Company 
has not raised loans during the year on the 
pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. 
Further, the Company does not have any 
associate or joint ventures. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(ix)(f) of the order 
is not applicable to the Company.
x.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the 
information explanation given to us, the 
Company did not raise any money by way 
of initial public offer or further public offer 
(including debt instruments) during the 
year. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
(b)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and based on our 
examination of the records of the Company, 
the Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares 
or fully, partly, or optionally convertible 
debentures during the year. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company. 
xi	
(a)	 Based on our examination of the books 
and records of the Company, carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, and according 
to the information and explanations given 
to us, we report that no material fraud by 
the Company or on the Company has been 
noticed or reported during the year in the 
course of our audit.
(b)	 Based on our examination of the books 
and records of the Company, carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, and according 
to the information and explanations given 
to us, a report under Section 143(12) of the 
Act, in Form ADT-4, as prescribed under 
rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 was not required to be filed with 
the Central Government. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(xi)(b) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(c)	 We have taken into consideration the 
whistle blower complaints received by the 
Company during the year while determining 
the nature, timing, and extent of audit 
procedures.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
165
164
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
xii.	 The 
Company 
is 
not 
a 
Nidhi 
Company. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 
3(xii)(a) to (c) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company. 
xiii.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on our examination of the 
records of the Company, transactions with the 
related parties are in compliance with Sections 
177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, where 
applicable and details of such transactions have 
been disclosed in Note No. 33 of the standalone 
financial statements as required by the applicable 
accounting standards. 
xiv.	 (a)	 In our opinion and based on our examination, 
the Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of 
its business.
(b)	 We have considered the internal audit 
reports of the Company issued till the date 
of our audit report, for the period under 
audit in accordance with the guidance 
provided in SA 610 – ‘Using the work of 
Internal Auditors’.
xv.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, in our opinion, during the year, the 
Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with directors or persons connected 
with its directors and accordingly, the reporting 
on compliance with the provisions of Section 192 
of the Companies Act, 2013 in clause 3(xv) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company. 
xvi.	 (a)	 The Company is required to and has been 
registered under Section 45-IA of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) 
as 
Non-Deposit 
taking 
Systematically 
Important (NBFC-ND-SI) Company.
(b)	 The Company has conducted non-banking 
financial activities during the year and 
the Company holds a valid Certificate of 
Registration from the Reserve Bank of India 
as per the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(c)	 The Company is not a Core investment 
Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, 
the provisions stated under clause 3 (xvi)
(c) of the Order are not applicable to the 
Company. 
(d)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations provided to us, the Group (as 
defined in the Core Investment Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not 
have any Core Investment Company as part 
of its group. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the order 
are not applicable to the Company.
xvii.	Based on the overall review of standalone 
financial statements, the Company has not 
incurred cash losses in the current financial year 
and in the immediately preceding financial year. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 
3(xvii) of the Order are not applicable to the 
Company.
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(xviii) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of the financial 
ratios (as disclosed in Note 32 to the standalone 
financial statements), ageing and expected 
dates of realization of financial assets and 
payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of 
Directors and management plans and based on 
our examination of the evidence supporting the 
assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, 
which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that Company is not capable of meeting 
its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet 
as and when they fall due within a period of one 
year from the balance sheet date. We, however, 
state that this is not an assurance as to the future 
viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the 
date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities 
falling due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date, will get discharged by the 
Company as and when they fall due.
xx.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has met the criteria 
as specified under sub-section (1) of Section 135 
of the Act read with the Companies (Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy) 
Rules, 
2014, 
however, in the absence of average net profits 
in the immediately three preceding years, there 
is no requirement for the Company to spend 
any amount under sub-section (5) of Section 
135 of the Act. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xx) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
xxi.	 There are no qualifications or adverse remarks 
by the respective auditors in the Companies 
(Auditors Report) Order, 2020 reports of the 
companies included in the consolidated financial 
statements. The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of 
the Order is not applicable in respect of audit of 
standalone financial statements. Accordingly, no 
comment in respect of the said Clause has been 
included in the report.
For M S K A & Associates 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Tushar Kurani 
Partner 
Mumbai	
Membership Number: 118580 
April 29, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118580BMOHVY1090 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
167
166
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
ANNEXURE “B”
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
OF INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
[Referred to in paragraph 2(g) under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the 
Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 
2025] 
REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
UNDER CLAUSE (I) OF SUB-SECTION 3 OF SECTION 
143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE ACT”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements of 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (“the Company”) as 
of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the Company for 
the year ended on that date.
OPINION
In our opinion, the Company has in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements and such 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘ICAI’).
MANAGEMENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S 
RESPONSIBILITY 
FOR 
INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS
The Company’s Management and the Board of 
Directors are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal control with reference to standalone 
financial statements criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued 
by ICAI. These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued 
by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively 
in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
WITH REFERENCE TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
standalone financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal financial control with 
reference to standalone financial statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of standalone 
financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the standalone financial statements.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO STANDALONE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial control 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Tushar Kurani 
Partner 
Mumbai	
Membership Number: 118580 
April 29, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118580BMOHVY1090 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
169
168
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
I. 	
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
3
9,192.46
38,773.39
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
4
32,560.54
29,175.78
Loans
5
7,21,651.85
5,98,730.29
Investments
6
1,81,819.45
1,57,092.38
Other financial assets
7
12,448.46
33,758.70
9,57,672.76
8,57,530.54
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net)
8
1,137.81
7,539.22
Deferred tax assets (net)
9
31,674.65
31,651.53
Property, plant and equipment
10
5,955.24
5,567.39
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
11
1,300.00
1,300.00
Goodwill
12
30,018.69
30,018.69
Other intangible assets
12
539.00
1,070.68
Other non-financial assets
13
2,922.89
4,335.48
Non - current asset held for sale
14
45,000.00
-
1,18,548.28
81,482.99
TOTAL ASSETS
10,76,221.04
9,39,013.53
II. 	 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
15
(i) 	 total outstanding to micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
6.23
114.85
(ii) 	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
1.82
15.47
Debt securities
16
3,79,218.64
3,28,775.09
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
17
3,12,429.59
2,76,167.94
Other financial liabilities
18
40,296.33
22,481.59
7,31,952.61
6,27,554.94
Non-financial liabilities
Provisions
19
901.31
529.50
Other non-financial liabilities
20
744.87
724.63
1,646.18
1,254.13
TOTAL LIABILITIES
7,33,598.79
6,28,809.07
EQUITY
Equity share capital
21
13,609.74
13,607.93
Other equity
22
3,29,012.51
2,96,596.53
TOTAL EQUITY
3,42,622.25
3,10,204.46
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
10,76,221.04
9,39,013.53
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 48
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
23
Interest income
1,19,654.44
91,478.94
Fees and commission income
11,963.66
5,123.21
Net gain on fair value changes
3,244.16
2,147.32
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments 
measured at amortised cost category
5,529.92
11,668.14
Total revenue from operations
1,40,392.18
1,10,417.61
Other income
24
849.37
2,105.06
Total income
1,41,241.55
1,12,522.67
EXPENSES
Finance costs
25
74,083.99
58,114.60
Impairment on financial instruments
26
13,752.34
8,306.69
Employee benefit expenses
27
29,771.41
21,180.93
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
28
3,061.80
2,766.37
Other expenses
29
15,312.92
14,992.71
Total expenses
1,35,982.46
1,05,361.30
Profit before tax
5,259.09
7,161.37
Tax expense:
30
1. 	
Current tax
-
-
2. 	 Tax of earlier years
-
-
3. 	 Deferred tax expenses
-
-
Total tax expenses
-
-
Profit/(loss) after tax
5,259.09
7,161.37
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
- 	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans
(111.91)
(42.90)
- 	
Income tax relating to items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss
28.17
10.80
(83.74)
(32.10)
Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss
- 	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive 
income
20.00
11.47
- 	
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to 
profit or loss
(5.05)
(2.89)
14.95
8.58
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
(68.79)
(23.52)
Total comprehensive income for the year
5,190.30
7,137.85
Earnings per equity share
31
Basic earnings per share (` )
3.86
5.26
Diluted earnings per share (` )
3.74
5.26
(Equity Share of face value of ` 10 each)
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 48
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
171
170
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
A	
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
	
Profit / (loss) before tax
5,259.09
7,161.37
	
Adjustments for :
	
Interest income on financial assets
(1,19,654.44)
(91,478.94)
	
Finance costs
74,083.99
58,114.60
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3,061.80
2,766.37
	
(Profit) / Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
(4.40)
22.55
	
Impairment on financial instruments
13,752.34
8,306.69
	
Provision for employee benefits
351.55
157.31
	
Employee share based payment expense
2,203.70
812.34
	
Net gain on fair value changes
(3,244.16)
(2,147.32)
	
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
(5,529.92)
(11,668.14)
	
(29,720.45)
(27,953.17)
	
Interest income realised on financial assets
1,15,375.32
90,889.36
	
Finance costs paid
(69,788.94)
(61,536.79)
	
Cash generated from operating activities before working 
capital changes
15,865.93
1,399.40
	
Adjustments:
	
(Increase)/Decrease in loans and advances
(1,75,031.30)
(1,62,945.19)
	
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets
26,804.65
(309.87)
	
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-financial assets
1,412.59
(1,100.99)
	
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payable
(122.27)
(604.93)
	
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities
18,519.11
(5,953.11)
	
Increase/(Decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
20.24
(226.97)
	
Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities
(1,12,531.05)
(1,69,741.66)
	
Taxes (paid) / refund
6,401.41
(2,163.22)
	
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (A)
(1,06,129.64)
(1,71,904.88)
B	
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
	
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
(2,155.81)
(840.00)
	
Sale of property, plant and equipment
6.79
7.77
	
Purchase of intangible assets
(245.14)
(27.20)
	
Proceeds/(Investment) in bank deposits of maturity greater 
than 3 months (net)
(3,384.76)
(8,832.28)
	
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at FVTPL 
(net)
(29,545.44)
58,086.00
	
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at FVOCI 
(net)
(14,471.43)
(4,020.66)
	
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at amortised 
cost (net)
19,369.23
23,065.49
	
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (B)
(30,426.56)
67,439.12
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
C	
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
	
Proceeds from issue of shares (including securities premium and 
net off share issue expenses)
25,282.42
-
	
Proceeds from bank borrowings
2,83,399.66
1,90,316.60
	
Repayments towards bank borrowings
(2,47,604.83)
(2,86,266.42)
	
Proceeds from issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures
1,15,558.54
2,45,500.00
	
Repayments towards Non-Convertible Debentures
(1,14,300.00)
(29,790.00)
	
Proceeds from Commercial Papers
1,32,000.00
55,300.00
	
Repayments towards Commercial Papers
(86,300.00)
(47,500.00)
	
Payment of lease liabilities
(1,060.52)
(821.73)
	
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (C)
1,06,975.27
1,26,738.45
	
Net Increase in cash and cash equivalents (A) + (B) + (C)
(29,580.93)
22,272.69
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
38,773.39
16,500.70
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year
9,192.46
38,773.39
	
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents with the balance 
sheet
	
Cash on hand
533.99
400.27
	
Balances with banks
	
- 	
in current accounts
1,656.32
12,368.85
	
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
7,002.15
26,004.27
	
Total
9,192.46
38,773.39
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 48
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
173
172
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (SOCIE)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(a) Equity share capital of face value of ` 10/- each
Particulars
Balance at the 
beginning of the 
current reporting 
period
Changes in Equity 
Share Capital due 
to prior period 
errors
Restated balance 
at the beginning 
of the current 
reporting period
Changes in Equity 
Share Capital 
during the current 
year
Balance at the 
end of the current 
reporting period
As at March 31, 2025
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
1.81
13,609.74
As at March 31, 2024
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
(b) Other equity
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and surplus
Debt 
instruments 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Statutory 
Reserves 
U/s 45(IC)
Capital 
Reserve
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
(i) 	Balance at April 01, 2024
-
2,92,207.63
31,083.07
0.43
2,122.74
3,447.24
(32,260.64)
(3.94)
-
 2,96,596.53 
	
Profit after tax for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
5,259.09
-
-
5,259.09
	
Debt instruments through other 
comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
14.95
-
14.95
	
Gain/loss on re-measurement of 
defined benefit plans
-
-
-
-
-
-
(83.74)
-
-
(83.74)
-
-
-
-
-
-
5,175.35
14.95
-
5,190.30
	
Proceeds from issue of shares 
(net)
-
30.43
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
30.43
	
Transferred from Retained 
earnings
-
-
1,051.82
-
-
-
(1,051.82)
-
-
-
	
Share application money 
received
10.95
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10.95
	
Share based payment expense
-
-
-
-
1,934.12
-
-
-
-
1,934.12
	
Transfer from ESOP reserves
-
12.81
-
-
(122.30)
109.49
-
-
-
-
	
Money received against share 
warrant
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
25,533.40
25,533.40
	
Share issue expenses
-
(283.22)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(283.22)
Balance at March 31, 2025
10.95
2,91,967.65
32,134.89
0.43
3,934.56
3,556.73
(28,137.11)
11.01
25,533.40
3,29,012.51
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (SOCIE)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(b) Other equity
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and surplus
Debt 
instruments 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Statutory 
Reserves 
U/s 45(IC)
Capital 
Reserve
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
(ii)	Balance at April 01, 2023
-
2,92,207.63
29,650.80
0.43
2,074.82
2,683.84
(37,957.64)
(12.52)
-
2,88,647.36
	
Profit after tax for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
7,161.37
-
-
7,161.37
	
Debt instruments through other 
comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8.58
-
8.58
	
Gain/loss on re-measurement of 
defined benefit plans
-
-
-
-
-
-
(32.10)
-
-
(32.10)
-
-
-
-
-
-
7,129.27
8.58
-
7,137.85
	
Proceeds from issue of shares 
(net)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
Transferred from Retained 
earnings
-
-
1,432.27
-
-
-
(1,432.27)
-
-
-
	
Share application money 
received
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
Share based payment expense
-
-
-
-
811.32
-
-
-
-
811.32
	
Transfer from ESOP reserves
-
-
-
-
(763.40)
763.40
-
-
-
-
	
Money received against share 
warrant
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
Share issue expenses
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Balance at March 31, 2024
-
2,92,207.63
31,083.07
0.43
2,122.74
3,447.24
(32,260.64)
(3.94)
-
2,96,596.53
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman &  
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Executive Officer &  
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 48
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
175
174
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
1	
CORPORATE INFORMATION
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (‘the Company’ 
or ‘ICFL’) was incorporated on July 21, 2009 
and is domiciled in India. The Company is 
registered with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
as a Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking 
Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI) 
vide certificate No. N-13.02109. The Company 
is primarily engaged in lending business. The 
Company has been classified as Middle Layer 
as per Master Direction- Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based 
Regulation) Directions, 2023 dated October 
19, 2023, as amended. The Company is also 
registered as Corporate Agent with the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) 
wide Certificate of Registration dated February 
21, 2024.
2	
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND MATERIAL 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1	 Statement 
of 
compliance 
with 
Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’)
	
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended from time to time. The financial 
statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, as modified by the 
application of fair value measurements required 
or allowed by relevant accounting standards. 
Accounting policies have been consistently 
applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise 
stated.
	
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the management is satisfied 
that the Company shall be able to continue its 
business for the foreseeable future. In making this 
assessment, the management has considered a 
wide range of information relating to present and 
future conditions, including future projections of 
profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
2.2	 Presentation of financial statements
	
The Balance Sheet and the Statement of Profit 
and Loss are prepared and presented in the 
format prescribed in the Division III to Schedule 
III to the Act applicable for Non Banking 
Financial Companies (“NBFC”). The Statement 
of Cash Flows has been prepared and presented 
as per the requirements of Ind AS 7 “Statement 
of Cash Flows”. The disclosure requirements 
with respect to items in the Balance Sheet and 
Statement of Profit and Loss, as prescribed in 
the Division III to Schedule III to the Act, are 
presented by way of notes forming part of the 
financial statements along with the other notes 
required to be disclosed under the notified 
accounting Standards and the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
generally reported gross in the balance sheet. 
They are only offset and reported net when, 
in addition to having an unconditional legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts without being contingent on a future 
event, the parties also intend to settle on a net 
basis in all of the following circumstances:
-	
the normal course of business
- 	
the event of default
- 	
the event of insolvency of bankruptcy of the 
Company/ or its counterparties.
2.3	 Material Accounting Policies
a)	
Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities can 
be termed as financial instruments.
	
Financial instruments are recognised when 
the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual terms of the instruments.
(i) 	 Classification of Financial Instruments
	
The Company classifies its financial 
assets into the following measurement 
categories:
1. 	
Financial assets to be measured at 
amortised cost.
2. 	 Financial assets to be measured 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
other 
comprehensive income.
3. 	 Financial assets to be measured 
at fair value through profit or loss 
account.
	
The classification depends on the 
contractual terms of the financial 
assets’ cash flows and the Company’s 
business model for managing financial 
assets.
	
The Company classifies its financial 
liabilities at amortised cost unless it 
has designated liabilities at fair value 
through the profit and loss account or 
is required to measure liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 
such as derivative liabilities. Financial 
liabilities, other than loan commitments 
and financial guarantees, are measured 
at FVTPL when they are derivative 
instruments or the fair value designation 
is applied.
	
Transaction costs directly pertaining 
to the acquisition or issue of financial 
instruments are added to or deducted 
from the initial measurement amount 
of the instrument except where the 
instrument is initially measured as fair 
value through profit or loss.
(ii) 	Assessment of business model and 
contractual cash flow characteristics 
for financial assets
	
Business model assessment
	
The Company determines its business 
model at the level that best reflects 
how it manages groups of financial 
assets to achieve its business objective. 
The 
Company’s 
business 
model 
determines whether the cash flows will 
be generated by collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling financial assets or by 
both.
	
The Company’s business model is 
assessed at portfolio level and not 
at instrument level, and is based on 
observable factors such as:
(i) 	 How 
the 
performance 
of 
the 
business model and the financial 
assets held within that business 
model are evaluated and reported 
to the entity’s key management 
personnel;
(ii) 	 The 
risks 
that 
affect 
the 
performance of the business model 
and, in particular, the way those 
risks are managed;
(iii) 	The expected frequency, value and 
timing of sales are also important 
aspects 
of 
the 
Company’s 
assessment. The business model 
assessment is based on reasonably 
expected 
scenarios 
without 
taking ‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ 
scenarios into account.
	
Solely 
payment 
of 
principal 
and 
interest (SPPI) test
	
Subsequent to the assessment to the 
relevant business model of the financial 
assets, the Company assesses the 
contractual terms of financial assets to 
identify whether the cash flow realised 
are towards solely payment of principal 
and interest.
	
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is 
defined as the fair value of the financial 
asset at initial recognition and may 
change over the life of the financial 
asset. The most significant elements of 
interest within a lending arrangement 
are typically the consideration for the 
time value of money and credit risk.
(iii) 	Initial 
measurement 
of 
financial 
instruments
	
The classification of financial instruments 
at initial recognition depends on their 
contractual terms and the business 
model for managing the instruments. 
Financial 
instruments 
are 
initially 
measured at their fair value.
(iv) 	Classification of Financial Instruments 
as per business model and SPPI test
(a)	 Loans and Debt instruments at 
amortised cost
	
A ‘loan or debt instrument’ is 
measured at the amortised cost if 
both the following conditions are 
met:
i) 	
The 
asset 
is 
held 
within 
a 
business 
model 
whose 
objective is to hold assets for 
collecting 
contractual 
cash 
flows, and
ii) 	 The contractual terms of the 
asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
177
176
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
After initial measurement, such 
financial assets are subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised 
cost 
using the effective interest rate 
(EIR) method. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account 
any 
discount 
or 
premium 
on 
acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The 
EIR amortisation is included in 
interest income in the statement 
of profit or loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognised in 
the statement of profit or loss.
(b) 	Financial assets at fair value 
through 
other 
comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI)
	
Financial assets are measured 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
other 
comprehensive income if these 
financial assets are held within a 
business model whose objective 
is achieved by both collecting 
contractual 
cash 
flows 
that 
give rise on specified dates to 
sole payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount 
outstanding and by selling financial 
assets.
(c) 	Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
Financial 
assets 
at 
fair 
value 
through profit or loss are those 
that are either held for trading 
and have been either designated 
by 
management 
upon 
initial 
recognition or are mandatorily 
required 
to 
be 
measured 
at 
fair value under Ind AS 109. 
Management only designates an 
instrument at FVTPL upon initial 
recognition 
when 
one 
of 
the 
following criteria are met (such 
designation is determined on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis):
	
The 
designation 
eliminates, 
or 
significantly 
reduces, 
the 
inconsistent treatment that would 
otherwise arise from measuring 
the assets or recognising gains or 
losses on them on a different basis.
	
Financial assets at FVTPL are 
recorded in the balance sheet at 
fair value. Changes in fair value are 
recorded in profit and loss.
(d)	 Debt 
securities 
and 
other 
borrowed funds
	
After initial measurement, debt 
issued and other borrowed funds 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised 
cost. 
Amortised 
cost is calculated by taking into 
account any discount or premium 
on issue funds, and costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. A 
compound 
financial 
instrument 
which contains both a liability and 
an equity component is separated 
at the issue date.
(e) 	Financial guarantees
	
Financial guarantees are initially 
recognised 
in 
the 
financial 
statements 
(within 
‘Provisions’) 
at fair value, being the premium/
deemed 
premium 
received. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the 
Company’s 
liability 
under 
each 
guarantee 
is 
measured 
at the higher of (i) the amount 
initially recognised less cumulative 
amortisation recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss and 
(ii) the amount of loss allowance. 
The premium/deemed premium 
is recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss on a straight line 
basis over the life of the guarantee.
(f) 	 Undrawn loan commitments
	
Undrawn loan commitments are 
commitments under which, over 
the duration of the commitment, 
the Company is required to provide 
a loan with pre-specified terms 
to the customer. Undrawn loan 
commitments are in the scope of 
the ECL requirements.
(v) 	Reclassification of financial assets and 
liabilities
	
The Company does not reclassify its 
financial assets subsequent to their 
initial recognition, apart from the 
exceptional circumstances in which 
the Company acquires, disposes of, or 
terminates a business line.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(vi)	Derecognition of financial assets in the 
following circumstances
	
	
	
(a)	 Derecognition of financial assets 
due to substantial modification of 
terms and conditions
	
The 
Company 
derecognises 
a 
financial asset, such as a loan to 
a customer, when the terms and 
conditions have been renegotiated 
to the extent that, substantially 
it becomes a new loan with 
the difference recognised as a 
derecognition gain or loss, to the 
extent that an impairment loss 
has not already been recorded. 
The newly recognised loans are 
classified as Stage 1 for ECL 
measurement purposes, unless the 
new loan is deemed to be credit-
impaired at the origination date.
	
If the modification does not result 
in cash flows that are substantially 
different, the modification does 
not result in derecognition. Based 
on the change in cash flows 
discounted at the original EIR, the 
Company records a modification 
gain or loss, to the extent that an 
impairment loss has not already 
been recorded.
(b)	 Derecognition of financial assets 
other than due to substantial 
modification
	
Financial assets
	
A financial asset or a part of 
financial asset is derecognised 
when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial asset 
have expired. The Company also 
derecognises the financial asset 
if it has transferred the financial 
asset and the transfer qualifies for 
derecognition.
	
The Company has transferred the 
financial asset if, and only if, either:
- 	
The Company has transferred 
its contractual rights to receive 
cash flows from the financial 
asset; or
- 	
It retains the rights to the cash 
flows, but has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received 
cash flows.
	
A 
transfer 
only 
qualifies 
for 
derecognition if either:
-	
The Company has transferred 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset; or
- 	
The 
Company 
has 
neither 
transferred 
nor 
retained 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred 
control 
of 
the 
asset.
	
The Company considers control 
to be transferred if and only if, the 
transferee has the practical ability 
to sell the asset in its entirety to an 
unrelated third party and is able 
to exercise that ability unilaterally 
and without imposing additional 
restrictions on the transfer.
	
When the Company has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards and has 
retained control of the asset, the 
asset continues to be recognised 
only to the extent of the Company’s 
continuing 
involvement, 
in 
which case, the Company also 
recognises an associated liability. 
The transferred asset and the 
associated liability are measured 
on a basis that reflects the rights 
and obligations that the Company 
has retained.
	
Write off
	
The Company writes off a financial 
asset 
when 
there 
is 
information 
indicating that the counterparty is in 
severe financial difficulty and there 
is no realistic prospect of recovery. 
Financial assets written off may still be 
subject to enforcement activities under 
the Company’s recovery procedures, 
taking into account legal advice where 
appropriate. Any recoveries made are 
recognised in Statement of profit and 
loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
179
178
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(vii)	Derecognition of Financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is derecognised 
when the obligation under the liability 
is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Where an existing financial liability is 
replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as 
a derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference between the carrying 
value of the original financial liability 
and the consideration paid is recognised 
in profit or loss.
b)	 Fair Value Measurement
	
On initial recognition, all the financial 
instruments are measured at fair value. For 
subsequent measurement, the Company 
measures certain categories of financial 
instruments at fair value on each balance 
sheet date. Fair value is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement 
date.
	
The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
i. 	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
ii. 	
In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
asset or liability.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques 
that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient data are available 
to measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
	
In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified 
based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, 
as summarised below:
	
Fair values are categorised into different 
levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the 
inputs used in the valuation techniques as 
follows:
	
Level 1:	 quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities;
	
Level 2:	 inputs other than quoted prices 
included in Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly or 
indirectly;
	
Level 3:	 inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data.
	
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of 
an asset or a liability fall into different levels 
of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value 
measurement is categorised in its entirety in 
the same level of the fair value hierarchy as 
the lowest level input that is significant to 
the entire measurement.
	
The Company recognises transfers between 
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end 
of the reporting period during which the 
change has occurred, if any.
c)	
Property plant and equipment
	
Recognition and measurement
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) is 
recognised when it is probable that the 
future economic benefits associated with it 
will flow to the Company and the cost can 
be measured reliably.
	
Property, 
plant 
and 
equipment 
(PPE) 
are 
stated 
at 
cost 
less 
accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, if any. 
Cost comprises the purchase price and any 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to 
its working condition for its intended use. 
Borrowing costs relating to acquisition of 
assets which takes substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use are 
also included to the extent they relate to the 
year till such assets are ready to be put to 
use. Any trade discounts and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of 
such assets are measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset and are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
Subsequent expenditure
	
Subsequent costs are included in the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised 
as a separate asset, as appropriate only 
if it is probable that the future economic 
benefits associated with the item will flow 
to the Company and that the cost of the 
item can be reliably measured. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for 
as a separate asset is derecognised when 
replaced. All other repair and maintenance 
expenses are charged to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss during the reporting period 
in which they are incurred.
	
Depreciation
	
Depreciation 
is 
provided 
on 
Straight 
Line Method (‘SLM’), which reflects the 
management’s estimate of the useful life of 
the respective assets. The estimated useful 
life used to provide depreciation are as 
follows:
Particulars
Estimated 
useful life 
by the 
Company
Useful 
life as 
prescribed 
by 
Schedule 
II of the 
Companies 
Act 2013
Computers
3 years
3 years
Office Equipment
5 years
5 years
Office Equipment 
- mobiles
2 years
5 years
Furniture and 
fixtures
5 years
10 years
Servers and 
networks
5 years
6 years
	
Property, 
plant 
and 
equipment 
items 
individually costing less than ` 5,000 are 
depreciated fully in the year of purchase.
	
Leasehold improvement is amortised on 
Straight Line Method over the lease term, 
subject to a maximum of 60 months.
	
The right-of-use assets are depreciated from 
the date of commencement of the lease on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
Useful life of assets different from prescribed 
in Schedule II of the Act has been estimated 
by management and supported by technical 
assessment. 
Depreciation 
on 
assets 
acquired/sold during the year is recognised 
on a pro-rata basis to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss till the date of sale.
	
The useful lives and the method of 
depreciation 
of 
property, 
plant 
and 
equipment are reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate. Changes in the expected 
useful life are accounted for by changing 
the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, and treated as changes in 
accounting estimates.
d)	 Intangible assets
	
Recognition and measurement
	
An intangible asset is recognised only 
when its cost can be measured reliably 
and it is probable that the expected future 
economic benefits that are attributable 
to it will flow to the Company. Intangible 
assets acquired separately are measured on 
initial recognition at cost. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value as at 
the date of acquisition.
	
Amortisation
	
Intangible assets are amortised using the 
straight line method over a period of 3 years, 
which is the management’s estimate of its 
useful life. The amortisation period and the 
amortisation method are reviewed at least 
as at each financial year end. If the expected 
useful life of the asset is significantly different 
from previous estimates, the amortisation 
period is changed accordingly.
	
Gains or losses arising from the retirement 
or disposal of an intangible asset are 
determined as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and recognised as 
income or expense in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
181
180
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
e)	
Business 
Combination 
and 
goodwill 
thereon
	
Business combinations other than under 
common control are accounted for using 
the acquisition method. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured at the value which is 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, 
measured at acquisition date fair value and 
the amount of any non-controlling interests 
in the acquiree. The identifiable assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed are 
recognised at their fair values, as on date of 
acquisition.
	
Measurement
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, 
being the excess of the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for non-controlling interests, 
and any previous interest held, over the net 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. In case the excess is on account 
of bargain purchase, the gain is recognised 
directly in equity as capital reserve. When the 
transaction is of nature other than bargain 
purchase, then the gain is recognised in 
OCI and accumulated in equity as capital 
reserve.
f)	
Impairment
(i)	 Financial Assets
(a) 	Expected 
Credit 
Loss 
(ECL) 
principles
	
The Company records allowance 
for expected credit losses for all 
loans, debt financial assets not 
held at FVTPL, undrawn loan 
commitments 
(referred 
to 
as 
‘financial instruments’).
	
For the computation of ECL on the 
financial instruments, the Company 
categories its financial instruments 
as mentioned below:
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there 
has not been a significant increase 
in credit risk since initial recognition 
or that has low credit risk at the 
reporting date and that are not 
credit impaired upon origination 
are classified under this stage. The 
Company classifies all advances 
upto 30 days overdue under this 
category.
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified 
as Stage 2 when the amount is due 
for more than 30 days but less than 
90 days. All exposures where there 
has been a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition 
but are not credit impaired are 
classified under this stage.
	
Stage 
3: 
All 
exposures 
are 
assessed 
as 
credit 
impaired 
when one or more events that 
have a detrimental impact on the 
estimated future cash flows of that 
asset have occurred. Exposures 
where the amount remains due for 
90 days or more are considered as 
to be stage 3 assets.
	
The Company has established a 
policy to perform an assessment, 
at the end of each reporting 
period, of whether a financial 
instrument’s 
credit 
risk 
has 
increased 
significantly 
since 
initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default 
occurring 
over 
the 
remaining 
life of the financial instrument. 
The 
Company 
undertakes 
the 
classification of exposures within 
the aforesaid stages at borrower 
level.
(b) 	Definition of default
	
A default on a financial asset is 
when the counterparty fails to 
make the contractual payments 
within 90 days of when they fall 
due. 
Accordingly, 
the 
financial 
assets shall be classified as Stage 
3, if on the reporting date, it has 
been 90 days and above past 
due. Non-payment on another 
obligation of the same customer 
is also considered as a Stage 3. 
In addition, Company shall also 
classify those accounts as default 
which meets the criteria as per the 
RBI 
circular 
RBI/2021-2022/125 
DOR.STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-
22 dated November 12, 2021.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(c) 	Calculation of ECL:
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit 
losses (i.e. present value of all cash 
shortfalls) over the expected life of 
the financial instruments.
	
Cash shortfalls are the difference 
between the cash flows that the 
entity is entitled to receive on 
account of contract and the cash 
flows that the entity expects to 
receive.
	
The 
mechanics 
of 
the 
ECL 
calculations are outlined below and 
the key elements are as follows:
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The 
Exposure at Default is the amount 
the Company is entitled to receive 
as on reporting date including 
repayments due for principal and 
interest, whether scheduled by 
contract or otherwise, expected 
drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
Probability of Default (PD) : 
The Probability of Default is an 
estimate of the likelihood of default 
of the exposure over a given time 
horizon. A default may only happen 
at a certain time over the assessed 
period, if the facility has not been 
previously derecognised and is still 
in the portfolio.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The 
Loss Given Default is an estimate of 
the loss arising in the case where 
a default occurs at a given time. It 
is based on the difference between 
the contractual cash flows due 
and those that the lender would 
expect to receive, including from 
the realisation of any collateral.
	
The ECL allowance is applied 
on 
the 
financial 
instruments 
depending upon the classification 
of the financial instruments as 
per the credit risk involved. ECL 
allowance is computed on the 
below mentioned basis:
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is 
the portion of Lifetime ECL that 
represents the ECL that results 
from default events on a financial 
instrument that are possible within 
the 12 months after the reporting 
date. 12-month ECL is applied on 
stage 1 assets.
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for 
credit losses expected to arise 
over the life of the asset in cases 
of credit impaired loans and in 
case of financial instruments where 
there has been significant increase 
in credit risk since origination. 
Lifetime ECL is the expected credit 
loss resulting from all possible 
default events over the expected 
life 
of 
a 
financial 
instrument. 
Lifetime ECL is applied on stage 2 
and stage 3 assets.
	
The Company computes the ECL 
allowance either on individual basis 
or on collective basis, depending 
on the nature of the underlying 
portfolio of financial instruments. 
The Company has grouped its loan 
portfolio into Corporate loans, SME 
loans, Commercial vehicle loans 
and Micro lap loans .
	
ECL on Trade Receivables:
	
The Company applies the simplified 
approach for computation of ECL 
on trade receivables as allowed as 
per Ind AS 109. Thus, the Company 
is recognising lifetime ECL for 
trade receivables.
	
Significant increase in Credit Risk
	
The Company monitors all financial 
assets and financial guarantee 
contracts 
that 
are 
subject 
to 
the impairment requirements to 
assess whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk 
since initial recognition. If there has 
been a significant increase in credit 
risk, the Company will measure the 
loss allowance based on lifetime 
rather than 12-month ECL.
	
In assessing whether the credit 
risk on a financial instrument 
has increased significantly since 
initial recognition, the Company 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
183
182
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
compares the risk of a default 
occurring 
on 
the 
financial 
instrument at the reporting date 
based on the remaining maturity 
of the instrument with the risk 
of a default occurring that was 
anticipated 
for 
the 
remaining 
maturity at the current reporting 
date when the financial instrument 
was first recognised. In making 
this assessment, the Company 
considers both quantitative and 
qualitative 
information 
that 
is 
reasonable 
and 
supportable, 
including historical experience and 
forward-looking information that 
is available without undue cost or 
effort, based on the Company’s 
historical experience and expert 
credit assessment.
	
Given that a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition is 
a relative measure, a given change 
in absolute terms in the PD will 
be more significant for a financial 
instrument with a lower initial 
PD than compared to a financial 
instrument with a higher PD.
	
As a back-stop when loan asset 
not being a loan becomes 30 days 
past due, the Company considers 
that a significant increase in credit 
risk has occurred and the asset is in 
stage 2 of the impairment model, 
i.e. the loss allowance is measured 
as the lifetime ECL in respect of all 
retail assets.
	
For the purpose of counting of 
days past due for the assessment 
of significant increase in credit 
risk, the special dispensations to 
any class of assets in accordance 
with COVID-19 Regulatory Package 
notified by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI) has been applied by the 
Company.
	
Modification and derecognition of 
financial assets
	
A modification of a financial asset 
occurs when the contractual terms 
governing the cash flows of a 
financial asset are renegotiated 
or otherwise modified between 
initial recognition and maturity of 
the financial asset. A modification 
affects the amount and/or timing 
of the contractual cash flows either 
immediately or at a future date. 
In addition, the introduction of 
new covenants or adjustment of 
existing covenants of an existing 
loan may constitute a modification 
even if these new or adjusted 
covenants do not yet affect the 
cash flows immediately but may 
affect the cash flows depending on 
whether the covenant is or is not 
met (e.g. a change to the increase 
in the interest rate that arises when 
covenants are breached).
	
The 
Company 
renegotiates 
loans to customers in financial 
difficulty to maximise collection 
and minimise the risk of default. 
A loan forbearance is granted in 
cases where although the borrower 
made all reasonable efforts to pay 
under 
the 
original 
contractual 
terms, there is a high risk of default 
or default has already happened 
and the borrower is expected to 
be able to meet the revised terms. 
The revised terms in most of the 
cases include an extension of the 
maturity of the loan, changes to the 
timing of the cash flows of the loan 
(principal and interest repayment), 
reduction in the amount of cash 
flows due (principal and interest 
forgiveness) and amendments to 
covenants.
	
When a financial asset is modified 
the Company assesses whether 
this 
modification 
results 
in 
derecognition. In accordance with 
the Company’s policy a modification 
results in derecognition when it 
gives rise to substantially different 
terms. To determine if the modified 
terms are substantially different 
from 
the 
original 
contractual 
terms the Company considers the 
following:
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
• 	
Qualitative factors, such as 
contractual cash flows after 
modification are no longer 
SPPI,
• 	
Change in currency or change 
of counterparty,
• 	
The extent of change in interest 
rates, maturity, covenants.
	
If this does not clearly indicate a 
substantial modification, then:
(a) 	 In the case where the financial 
asset 
is 
derecognised 
the 
loss allowance for ECL is 
remeasured at the date of 
derecognition to determine 
the net carrying amount of 
the asset at that date. The 
difference 
between 
this 
revised 
carrying 
amount 
and the fair value of the new 
financial asset with the new 
terms will lead to a gain or loss 
on derecognition. The new 
financial asset will have a loss 
allowance 
measured 
based 
on 12-month ECL except in 
the rare occasions where the 
new loan is considered to be 
originated-credit 
impaired. 
This applies only in the case 
where the fair value of the 
new loan is recognised at 
a significant discount to its 
revised par amount because 
there remains a high risk of 
default which has not been 
reduced by the modification. 
The Company monitors credit 
risk of modified financial assets 
by evaluating qualitative and 
quantitative information, such 
as if the borrower is in past due 
status under the new terms.
(b) 	When the contractual terms of 
a financial asset are modified 
and the modification does 
not result in derecognition, 
the Company determines if 
the financial asset’s credit risk 
has 
increased 
significantly 
since initial recognition by 
comparing:
• 	
the remaining lifetime PD 
estimated based on data 
at initial recognition and 
the original contractual 
terms; with
• 	
the 
remaining 
lifetime 
PD at the reporting date 
based on the modified 
terms.
	
For 
financial 
assets 
modified, 
where modification did not result 
in derecognition, the estimate of 
PD reflects the Company’s ability 
to collect the modified cash flows 
taking into account the Company’s 
previous 
experience 
of 
similar 
forbearance action, as well as 
various 
behavioural 
indicators, 
including the borrower’s payment 
performance against the modified 
contractual terms. If the credit 
risk remains significantly higher 
than what was expected at initial 
recognition the loss allowance will 
continue to be measured at an 
amount equal to lifetime ECL. The 
loss allowance on forborne loans 
will generally only be measured 
based on 12-month ECL when 
there is evidence of the borrower’s 
improved 
repayment 
behaviour 
following modification leading to a 
reversal of the previous significant 
increase in credit risk.
	
Where a modification does not lead 
to derecognition, the Company 
calculates the modification gain/
loss comparing the gross carrying 
amount before and after the 
modification (excluding the ECL 
allowance). Then the Company 
measures ECL for the modified 
asset, where the expected cash 
flows arising from the modified 
financial asset are included in 
calculating the expected cash 
shortfalls from the original asset.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
185
184
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
Presentation of ECL allowance in 
the Balance Sheet
	
Loss 
allowances 
for 
ECL 
are 
presented in the statement of 
financial position as follows:
• 	
for financial assets measured 
at 
amortised 
cost: 
as 
a 
deduction 
from 
the 
gross 
carrying amount of the assets;
• 	
for debt instruments measured 
at FVTOCI: no loss allowance 
is recognised in Balance Sheet 
as the carrying amount is at 
fair value.
(ii) 	Financial Liabilities
(a)	 Loan commitments
	
Undrawn loan commitments are 
commitments under which, over 
the duration of the commitment, 
the Group is required to provide 
a loan with pre-specified terms 
to the customer. Undrawn loan 
commitments are in the scope of 
the ECL requirements.
(b)	 Financial guarantee contracts
	
The Group’s liability under financial 
guarantee is measured at the higher 
of the amount initially recognised 
less 
cumulative 
amortisation 
recognised 
in 
the 
statement 
of profit and loss, and the ECL 
provision. For this purpose, the 
Group estimates ECLs by applying 
a credit conversion factor. The 
ECLs related to financial guarantee 
contracts are recognised within 
Provisions. Currently, the Group has 
not recognised any ECL in respect 
of financial guarantee based on 
estimate of expected cash flows.
(iii)	Non-financial assets
	
(a)	 Intangible assets
	
The carrying amount of assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet 
date if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/
external factors. An impairment 
loss 
is 
recognised 
when 
the 
carrying amount of an individual 
asset 
exceeds 
its 
recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is 
the higher of fair value of the asset 
less cost of its disposal and value in 
use.
(b) 	Goodwill
	
Goodwill is recorded at the cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses 
in the previous years. Goodwill on 
acquisition is tested for impairment 
where the same allocated to each 
of the Group’s cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit 
from the combination, irrespective 
of whether other assets or liabilities 
of the acquiree are assigned to 
those units.
	
A cash generating unit (CGU) to 
which goodwill has been allocated 
is tested for impairment on annual 
basis or whenever required in 
case where the Company is of 
the opinion that goodwill may 
be impaired. If the recoverable 
amount of the cash generating unit 
is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated 
first to reduce the carrying amount 
of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro rata based on the 
carrying amount of each asset in 
the unit. Any impairment loss for 
goodwill is recognised in profit or 
loss. Such impairment loss already 
recognised for goodwill is not 
reversed in subsequent periods.
g)	 Recognition of income
	
Revenue generated from the business 
transactions (other than for those items to 
which Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments are 
applicable) is measured at fair value of the 
consideration to be received or receivable 
by the Company. Ind AS 115 Revenue from 
contracts with customers outlines a single 
comprehensive 
model 
of 
accounting 
for revenue arising from contracts with 
customers.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
The Company recognises revenue from 
contracts with customers based on a five 
step model as set out in Ind AS 115:
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer;
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in 
the contract(s);
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price;
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract(s);
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the 
Company satisfies a performance obligation.
(a) 	Recognition of interest income
	
Interest income is recorded using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method 
for all financial instruments measured 
at amortised cost. The EIR is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected 
life of the financial instrument or, when 
appropriate, a shorter period, to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset.
	
The EIR for the amortised cost asset is 
calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition, 
origination fees and transaction costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR.
	
If expectations regarding the cash 
flows on the financial asset are revised 
for reasons other than credit risk, the 
adjustment is booked as a positive or 
negative adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the asset in the balance sheet 
with an increase or reduction in interest 
income. The adjustment is subsequently 
amortised through Interest income in 
the statement of profit and loss.
	
The 
Company 
calculates 
interest 
income by applying the EIR to the gross 
carrying amount of financial assets 
other 
than 
credit-impaired 
assets. 
When a financial asset becomes credit-
impaired and is, therefore, regarded 
as ‘Stage 3’, the Company recognised 
the interest income by applying the 
effective interest rate to the net 
amortised cost of the financial asset. If 
the financial status of the financial asset 
improves and it no longer remains to be 
a credit-impaired, the Company revises 
the application of interest income 
on such financial asset to calculating 
interest income on a gross basis.
	
Interest income on all trading assets and 
financial assets mandatorily required to 
be measured at FVTPL is recognised 
as interest income in the statement of 
profit or loss.
(b) 	Dividend income
	
Dividend income is recognised when the 
Company’s right to receive the payment 
is established, it is probable that the 
economic benefits associated with 
the dividend will flow to the Company 
and the amount of the dividend can be 
measured reliably.
(c) 	Fees and commission income
	
Fees and commission income are 
recognised 
as 
income 
when 
the 
performance obligation as per the 
contract with customer is fulfilled 
and when the right to receive the 
payment against the services has been 
established.
(d) 	Origination fees
	
Origination fees, which the Company 
has received/recovered at time of 
granting of a loan, is considered as a 
component for computation of the 
effective rate of interest (EIR) for the 
purpose of computing interest income.
(e)	 Management Fees:
	
Management 
fees 
and 
other 
fees 
are recognised as income when the 
performance obligation as per the 
contract with customer is fulfilled 
and when the right to receive the 
payment against the services has been 
established.
(f) 	 Assignment income
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
assignment transactions with complete 
transfer of risks and rewards, gain 
arising on such assignment transactions 
is recorded upfront in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss and the corresponding 
asset is derecognised from the Balance 
Sheet immediately upon execution 
of 
such 
transactions. 
Further 
the 
transfer of financial assets qualifies for 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
187
186
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
derecognition in its entirety, the whole 
of the interest spread at its present 
value (discounted over the expected 
life of the asset) is recognised on the 
date of derecognition itself as excess 
interest spread and correspondingly 
recognised as profit on derecognition 
of financial asset.
	
The residual expected life of the pool of 
asset is assessed annually.
(g) 	Securitisation transactions :
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in 
case 
of 
securitisation 
transactions, 
the Company retains substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the 
Company continues to recognise the 
financial asset and also recognises 
a collateralised borrowing for the 
proceeds received.
(h) 	Net gain/(loss) on Fair value changes
	
Any differences between the fair values 
of financial assets classified as fair value 
through the profit or loss, held by the 
Company on the balance sheet date is 
recognised as an unrealised gain or loss 
as a gain or expense respectively.
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on 
sale of financial instruments measured 
at 
FVTPL 
and 
debt 
instruments 
measured at FVOCI is recognised in net 
gain / loss on fair value changes.
(i) 	 Sourcing and servicing fee
	
The revenue from the contract as 
a 
service 
provider 
(sourcing 
and 
collection agent) on behalf of customer, 
is recognised upfront for services 
rendered as sourcing agent and on 
straight line basis over the loan tenure 
for services in the nature of collection 
and performance agent. The financial 
guarantee provided under the service 
contract is recognised at fair value on 
sourcing and is amortised over the 
period of contract with subsequent 
measurement 
at 
higher 
of 
the 
unamortised value as per Ind AS 115 or 
expected credit losses as per Ind AS 
109.
h)	
Finance Costs
	
The Company recognises interest expense 
on the borrowings as per EIR methodology 
which is calculated by considering any 
ancillary costs incurred and any premium 
payable on its maturity.
i)	
Retirement and other employee benefits
(i)	 Defined Contribution Plan
	
Provident Fund
	
All the employees of the Company are 
entitled to receive benefits under the 
Provident Fund, a defined contribution 
plan in which both the employee and 
the 
Company 
contribute 
monthly 
at a stipulated rate. The Company 
has no liability for future Provident 
Fund benefits other than its annual 
contribution 
and 
recognises 
such 
contributions as an expense, when an 
employee renders the related service.
(ii) 	Defined Benefit schemes
(a) 	Gratuity
	
The 
Company 
provides 
for 
the gratuity, a defined benefit 
retirement 
plan 
covering 
all 
employees. The plan provides for 
lump sum payments to employees 
upon death while in employment 
or on separation from employment 
after serving for the stipulated 
year 
mentioned 
under 
‘The 
Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’. 
The Company accounts for liability 
of future gratuity benefits based 
on an external actuarial valuation 
on projected unit credit method 
carried out for assessing liability as 
at the reporting date.
	
Net interest recognised in proﬁt 
or loss is calculated by applying 
the discount rate used to measure 
the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to 
the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 
or asset. The actual return on the 
plan assets above or below the 
discount rate is recognised as 
part of re-measurement of net 
deﬁned liability or asset through 
other 
comprehensive 
income. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Remeasurements, comprising of 
actuarial gains and losses, the 
effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and 
the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability), 
are recognised immediately in the 
balance sheet with a corresponding 
debit or credit to retained earnings 
through 
Other 
comprehensive 
income (‘OCI’) in the period in 
which they occur. Remeasurements 
are not reclassified to profit or loss 
in subsequent periods.
(b) 	Compensated absences
	
Compensated absences which are 
expected to occur within twelve 
months after the end of the period 
in which the employee renders the 
related services are provided for 
based on estimates. Compensated 
absences which are not expected 
to occur within twelve months 
after the end of the period in 
which the employee renders the 
related services are provided for 
based on actuarial valuation. The 
actuarial valuation is done as per 
projected unit credit method as 
at the reporting date. Actuarial 
gains/losses are immediately taken 
to Statement of profit and loss 
account and are not deferred.
j)	
Share based employee payments
	
Equity settled share based payments
	
The stock options granted to employees are 
measured at the fair value of the options at 
the grant date. The fair value of the options 
is treated as discount and accounted as 
employee compensation cost over the 
vesting period on a straight line basis. The 
amount recognised as expense in each year 
is arrived at based on the number of grants 
expected to vest. If a grant lapses after the 
vesting period, the cumulative discount 
recognised as expense in respect of such 
grant is transferred to the general reserve 
within equity.
k)	
Ind AS 116 Leases
	
The 
determination 
of 
whether 
an 
arrangement is a lease, or contains a lease, is 
based on the substance of the arrangement 
and requires an assessment of whether the 
fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent 
on the use of a specific asset or assets or 
whether the arrangement conveys a right to 
use the asset.
	
Company as a lessee
	
Leases that do not transfer to the Company 
substantially all of the risks and benefits 
incidental to ownership of the leased 
items are treated as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised 
as an expense in the statement of profit 
and loss on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term, unless the increase is in line 
with expected general inflation, in which 
case lease payments are recognised based 
on contractual terms. Contingent rental 
payable is recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they it is incurred.
	
Critical accounting estimate and judgement
1. 	
Determination of lease term
	
Ind AS 116 Leases requires lessee to 
determine the lease term as the non-
cancellable period of a lease adjusted 
with any option to extend or terminate 
the lease, if the use of such option 
is reasonably certain. The Company 
makes assessment on the expected 
lease term on lease by lease basis 
and thereby assesses whether it is 
reasonably certain that any options to 
extend or terminate the contract will be 
exercised. In evaluating the lease term, 
the Company considers factors such as 
any significant leasehold improvements 
undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of lease and 
the importance of the underlying to 
the Company’s operations taking into 
account the location of the underlying 
asset and the availability of the suitable 
alternatives. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that 
the lease term reflects the current 
economic circumstances.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
189
188
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
2. 	 Discount Rate
	
The discount rate is generally based 
on the incremental borrowing rate 
specific to the lease being evaluated 
or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
l)	
Foreign currency translation
	
Functional and presentational currency
	
The financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees which is also functional 
currency of the Company and the currency 
of the primary economic environment in 
which the Company operates.
m)	 Provisions
	
A provision is recognised when the Company 
has a present obligation as a result of past 
event; it is probable that outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate can be 
made. Provisions are not discounted to its 
present value and are determined based 
on best estimate required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date. These 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and adjusted to reflect the current best 
estimates.
n)	
Taxes
(i) 	 Current tax
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the 
current and prior years are measured at 
the amount expected to be recovered 
from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. 
The tax rates and tax laws used to 
compute the amount are those that 
are enacted, or substantively enacted, 
by the reporting date in the countries 
where the Company operates and 
generates taxable income.
	
Current income tax relating to items 
recognised 
outside 
profit 
or 
loss 
is recognised outside profit or loss 
(either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Current tax items are 
recognised 
in 
correlation 
to 
the 
underlying transaction either in OCI 
or directly in equity. Management 
periodically evaluates positions taken in 
the tax returns with respect to situations 
in which applicable tax regulations are 
subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions where appropriate.
(ii) 	Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences 
at 
the 
reporting 
date 
between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences, 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses can be utilised, 
except:
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each reporting 
date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred tax asset to 
be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent 
that it has become probable that future 
taxable profits will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date.
	
Deferred 
tax 
relating 
to 
items 
recognised 
outside 
profit 
or 
loss 
is recognised outside profit or loss 
(either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Deferred tax items 
are recognised in correlation to the 
underlying transaction either in OCI or 
directly in equity.
	
Deferred 
tax 
assets 
and 
deferred 
tax liabilities are offset if a legally 
enforceable right exists to set off 
current tax assets against current tax 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
liabilities and the deferred taxes relate 
to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
(iii) 	Indirect tax
	
Expenses and assets are recognised 
net of the Goods and Services Tax 
paid, except when the tax incurred on 
a purchase of assets or services is not 
recoverable from the taxation authority, 
in which case the tax paid is recognised 
as part of the cost of acquisition of 
the asset or as part of the respective 
expense item, as applicable.
o)	 Earnings Per Share
	
The Company reports basic and diluted 
earnings per share in accordance with Ind 
AS 33 on Earnings per share. Basic EPS 
is calculated by dividing the net proﬁt or 
loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during 
the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted 
earnings per share, the net proﬁt or loss for 
the year attributable to equity shareholders 
and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year are adjusted 
for the effects of all dilutive potential equity 
shares. Dilutive potential equity shares are 
deemed converted as of the beginning of 
the period, unless they have been issued 
at a later date. In computing the dilutive 
earnings per share, only potential equity 
shares that are dilutive and that either 
reduces the earnings per share or increases 
loss per share are included.
p)	 Contingent Liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation 
that arises from past events whose existence 
will be conﬁrmed by the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events beyond the control of the 
Company or a present obligation that is not 
recognised because it is not probable that 
an outﬂow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation. A contingent liability 
also arises in extremely rare cases where 
there is a liability that cannot be recognised 
because it cannot be measured reliably. The 
Company does not recognise a contingent 
liability but discloses its existence in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
q)	 Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are those components 
of the business whose operating results are 
regularly reviewed by the chief operating 
decision making body in the Company to 
make decisions for performance assessment 
and resource allocation.
	
The reporting of segment information is the 
same as provided to the management for 
the purpose of the performance assessment 
and resource allocation to the segments.
	
Segment accounting policies are in line with 
the accounting policies of the Company. In 
addition, the following specific accounting 
policies have been followed for segment 
reporting:
i) 	
Segment revenue includes operational 
revenue 
directly 
identifiable 
with/
allocable to the segment.
ii) 	 Expenses that are directly identifiable 
with/allocable 
to 
segments 
are 
considered 
for 
determining 
the 
segment result.
iii) 	 Income which relates to the Company as 
a whole and not allocable to segments 
is included in “unallocable corporate 
income / (expenditure) (net)”.
iv)	 Segment result includes the finance 
costs incurred on interest bearing 
advances with corresponding credit 
included 
in 
“unallocable 
corporate 
income/(expenditure)(net)”.
v) 	 Segment assets and liabilities include 
those directly identifiable with the 
respective 
segments. 
Unallocable 
corporate assets and liabilities represent 
the assets and liabilities that relate to 
the Company as a whole.
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance 
sheet and for the purpose of statement 
of cash flows comprise cash at bank and 
cheques in hand and short-term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months 
or less, which are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value. They are held for 
the purposes of meeting short-term cash 
commitments (rather than for investment or 
other purposes).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
191
190
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
s)	
Non-current assets held for sale:
	
Non-current 
assets 
and 
disposable 
groups are classified as held for sale if 
their carrying amount is intended to be 
recovered principally through a sale (rather 
than through continuing use) when the 
asset (or disposal Company) is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition 
subject only to terms that are usual and 
customary for sale of such asset (or disposal 
Company) and the sale is highly probable 
and is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from 
the date of classification except in some 
circumstances this period can be extended 
if it is beyond the control of management 
and there are sufficient evidence that the 
entity remains committed to its plan to sell 
the asset.
	
Non-current assets and disposal groups 
classified as held for sale are measured at 
lower of their carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell.
2.4	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with Ind AS requires that the 
management of the Company makes estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of income and expenses of the period, 
the reported balances of assets and liabilities and 
the disclosures relating to contingent liabilities 
as of the date of the financial statements. The 
estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates include useful lives of 
property, plant and equipment & intangible 
assets, allowance for expected credit losses, 
fair value measurement, business projections 
for impairment assessment of goodwill etc. 
Difference, if any, between the actual results and 
estimates is recognised in the period in which 
the results are known.
2.5	 Securities premium account
a)	
Securities premium includes:
-	
The difference between the face value of 
the equity shares and the consideration 
received in respect of shares issued;
-	
The fair value of the stock options 
which are treated as expense, if any, in 
respect of shares allotted pursuant to 
Stock Options Scheme.
b)	 The issue expenses of securities which 
qualify as equity instruments are written 
off against securities premium account/ 
retained earning in accordance with Ind AS.
2.6	 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies 
new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. 
For the year ended March 31, 2025, MCA has 
notified Ind AS – 117 Insurance Contracts and 
amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to 
sale and leaseback transactions, applicable to 
the Company w.e.f. April 01, 2024. The Company 
has reviewed the new pronouncements and 
based on its evaluation has determined that 
it does not have any significant impact in its 
financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 3	 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
533.99
400.27
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
1,656.32
12,368.85
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
7,002.15
26,004.27
9,192.46
38,773.39
NOTE 4	 BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months
997.00
1,652.74
Earmarked deposits with banks
31,563.54
27,523.04
32,560.54
29,175.78
NOTE 5	 LOANS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At amortised cost
Business Loans
Corporate lending
15,637.42
40,851.33
Small and medium enterprises lending (SME)
23,208.08
31,679.68
Commercial vehicle lending
7,02,362.88
5,54,865.24
Micro LAP
5,188.31
-
Other loans
-
2,405.14
Total - Gross
7,46,396.69
6,29,801.39
Less: Impairment allowance
(24,744.84)
(31,071.10)
Total - Net
7,21,651.85
5,98,730.29
(a) Secured by tangible assets
7,37,161.77
6,20,366.15
(b) Unsecured
9,234.92
9,435.24
Total - Gross
7,46,396.69
6,29,801.39
Less: Impairment allowance
(24,744.84)
(31,071.10)
Total - Net
7,21,651.85
5,98,730.29
Loans in India
(a) Public sector
-
-
(b) Others
7,46,396.69
6,29,801.39
Total - Gross
7,46,396.69
6,29,801.39
Less: Impairment allowance
(24,744.84)
(31,071.10)
Total - Net (a)
7,21,651.85
5,98,730.29
Loans outside India (b)
-
-
Total - Net (a)+(b)
7,21,651.85
5,98,730.29
Footnotes:
i) 	
Security receipts are presented as part of “Note 6 - Investments”
ii) 	
Stage classification of loans, investments and its impairment allowance is disclosed in Note 32(D) and Note 32(E)
iii) 	 Secured indicates loans secured, wholly or partly, by way of hypothecation of vehicle and / or equitable mortgage of 
property and or equipment.
iv) 	 Also refer Note 33.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
193
192
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 6	 INVESTMENTS
Investments as at March 31, 2025
Investment in
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Others
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through 
profit and 
loss
At cost
Mutual funds
-
-
49,511.64
-
49,511.64
Security Receipts
1,38,715.21
-
-
-
1,38,715.21
Treasury Bills
-
9,653.55
-
-
9,653.55
Bonds
-
10,160.59
-
-
10,160.59
Government securities
-
10,232.72
-
-
10,232.72
Subsidiaries
-
-
-
1.00
1.00
Total - Gross
1,38,715.21
30,046.86
49,511.64
1.00
2,18,274.71
Investments in India
1,38,715.21
30,046.86
49,511.64
1.00
2,18,274.71
Investments outside India
-
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
1,38,715.21
30,046.86
49,511.64
1.00
2,18,274.71
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(36,455.26)
-
-
-
(36,455.26)
Total - Net
1,02,259.95
30,046.86
49,511.64
1.00
1,81,819.45
1. 	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is disclosed in 
Note 32 (D)
Investment in Subsidiaries comprises of:
Name of Subsidiary
Carrying Amount
% Holding
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
1.00
100%
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited  
(Formerly known as IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited)*
-
-
Total
1.00
* shown under non - current asset held for sale (refer note 14)
Investments as at March 31, 2024
Investment in
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Others
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through 
profit and 
loss
At cost
Mutual funds
-
-
16,723.44
-
16,723.44
Security Receipts
1,17,530.96
-
-
-
1,17,530.96
Treasury Bills
-
14,210.78
-
-
14,210.78
Bonds
-
-
-
-
-
Government securities
-
-
-
-
-
Subsidiaries
-
-
-
45,270.58
45,270.58
Total - Gross
1,17,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
1,93,735.76
Investments in India
1,17,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
1,93,735.76
Investments outside India
-
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
1,17,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
1,93,735.76
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(36,643.38)
-
-
-
(36,643.38)
Total - Net
80,887.58
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
1,57,092.38
1. 	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is disclosed in 
Note 32 (D)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Investment in Subsidiaries comprises of:
Name of Subsidiary
Carrying Amount
% Holding
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
1.00
100%
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)*
45,269.58
100%
Total
45,270.58
* includes cross charge of ` 269.58 lakhs in form of deemed investment in subsidiary on account of ESOPs given 
to employees of subsidiary.
NOTE 7	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposit
810.99
624.71
Assignment receivables
5,235.45
1,309.43
Deposits with Trustee for securitisation*
4,484.14
26,337.33
Other receivables
2,214.46
5,755.78
12,745.04
34,027.25
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(296.58)
(268.55)
12,448.46
33,758.70
* It represents fixed deposit held as collateral with trustee for pass through certificate transactions.
Footnote: Other receivable includes receivable from subsidiaries (refer note 33)
NOTE 8	 CURRENT TAX ASSETS (NET)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance tax (net of provision)
1,137.81
7,539.22
1,137.81
7,539.22
NOTE 9	 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (NET)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for expected credit loss
15,653.97
17,390.69
Provision for gratuity
150.74
96.95
Provision for compensated absences
76.11
36.31
Debt instruments through OCI
(5.04)
(2.89)
Lease liabilities
118.00
91.12
Income amortisation
(1,121.20)
(500.68)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
974.57
909.28
Carried forward book losses
26,078.66
24,012.02
Total (A)
41,925.81
42,032.80
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill
(7,555.10)
(7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
(1,317.66)
(329.56)
Borrowing cost amortisation
(1,378.40)
(2,496.61)
Total (B)
(10,251.16)
(10,381.27)
Net deferred tax asset (A-B) (also refer Note 30)
31,674.65
31,651.53
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
195
194
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 10	 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
DESCRIPTION
Land - 
Freehold*
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Leasehold 
Improvement
Office 
equipment
Computers
Right of Use 
- Premises
Total
Cost as at April 01, 2023
15.05
759.25
4,438.58
756.01
3,547.02
3,569.94
13,085.85
Additions
-
12.03
23.72
32.27
771.98
2,381.33
3,221.33
Disposals
-
(17.84)
(112.29)
(10.42)
(45.19)
(1,047.91)
(1,233.65)
Cost as at March 31, 2024 (A)
15.05
753.44
4,350.01
777.86
4,273.81
4,903.36
15,073.53
Additions
-
5.32
692.29
87.73
1,370.47
679.14
2,834.95
Disposals
-
(0.29)
(4.30)
(6.61)
(171.17)
(566.46)
(748.83)
Cost as at March 31, 2025 (A)
15.05
758.47
5,038.00
858.98
5,473.11
5,016.04
17,159.65
Accumulated depreciation as at 
April 01, 2023
-
582.91
3,461.57
549.09
2,711.73
991.84
8,297.14
Depreciation for the year
-
14.38
414.68
51.41
573.63
720.98
1,775.08
Disposals
-
(17.84)
(82.35)
(10.42)
(44.81)
(410.66)
(566.08)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2024 (B)
-
579.45
3,793.90
590.08
3,240.55
1,302.16
9,506.14
Depreciation for the year
-
11.74
492.28
62.92
873.41
844.63
2,284.98
Disposals
-
(0.29)
(4.30)
(6.57)
(168.82)
(406.73)
(586.71)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2025 (B)
-
590.90
4,281.88
646.43
3,945.14
1,740.06
11,204.41
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2025 (A) - (B)
15.05
167.57
756.12
212.55
1,527.97
3,275.98
5,955.24
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2024 (A) - (B)
15.05
173.99
556.11
187.78
1,033.26
3,601.20
5,567.39
* Mortgaged as security against Secured Non-convertible Debentures.
NOTE 11	 ASSETS ACQUIRED IN SATISFACTION OF CLAIM
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
1,708.88
1,708.88
Less: Provision
(408.88)
(408.88)
1,300.00
1,300.00
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 12	 ASSETS ACQUIRED IN SATISFACTION OF CLAIM
a) 	 Goodwill
Particulars
Total
Cost as at April 01, 2023
30,018.69
Acquisition of business
-
Cost as at March 31, 2024 (A)
30,018.69
Acquisition of business
-
Cost as at March 31, 2025 (A)
30,018.69
Accumulated impairment as at April 01, 2023
-
Addition
-
Accumulated impairment as at March 31, 2024 (B)
-
Addition
-
Accumulated impairment as at March 31, 2025 (B)
-
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2025 (A)- (B)
30,018.69
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024 (A) -(B)
30,018.69
The Company has assessed that there is no impairment of Goodwill as at and for the year ended March 2025. 
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash 
flow projections of commercial vehicle business based on financial budgets covering a five-year period and 
a discount rate of 19%. The Company has determined that the recoverable amount calculations are most 
sensitive to changes in the assumptions of yield/spread during the budget period and the discounting rate. 
The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, on which recoverable 
amount is based would not cause carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
b) 	 Other intangible assets
Particulars
Computer 
Software
Total
Cost as at April 01, 2023
3,777.68
3,777.68
Additions
27.20
27.20
Disposals
-
-
Cost as at March 31, 2024 (A)
3,804.88
3,804.88
Additions
245.14
245.14
Disposals
-
-
Cost as at March 31, 2025 (A)
4,050.02
4,050.02
Accumulated amortisation as at April 01, 2023
1,742.91
1,742.91
Amortisation recognised for the year
991.29
991.29
Disposals
-
-
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2024 (B)
2,734.20
2,734.20
Amortisation recognised for the year
776.82
776.82
Disposals
-
-
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2025 (B)
3,511.02
3,511.02
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2025 (A) - (B)
539.00
539.00
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024 (A) - (B)
1,070.68
1,070.68
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
197
196
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 13	 OTHER NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Prepaid expenses
1,520.64
1,233.02
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind or for value to be received
1,402.25
3,102.46
2,922.89
4,335.48
NOTE 14	 NON - CURRENT ASSET HELD FOR SALE
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Investment in subsidiary
45,000.00
-
45,000.00
-
The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on September 19, 2024 had considered and approved, 
inter-alia, subject to shareholders, regulatory and other approvals, sale of the Company’s shareholding in Niwas 
Housing Finance Private Limited (“NHFPL”)(Formerly known as IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited), a debt-
listed material subsidiary of the Company, to WITKOPEEND B.V. (the “Purchaser”) for an aggregate consideration 
of ` 170,595 lakhs in accordance with the terms of the share purchase agreement dated September 19, 2024 
among the Company, NHFPL and the Purchaser. Subsequently, the Shareholders’ approval was obtained on 
October 26, 2024. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) accorded its approval on March 21, 2025. However, as on 
March 31, 2025, the transaction is not considered as concluded.
Accordingly, the investment in NHFPL has been classified as “Non-current asset held for sale” in the Standalone 
Financial Statements in accordance with Ind-AS 105 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations.
NOTE 15	 TRADE PAYABLES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Dues to Micro, small and medium enterprises
6.23
114.85
Dues to Others
1.82
15.47
8.05
130.32
Footnote : Also refer Note 37
NOTE 16	 DEBT SECURITIES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At amortised cost
Redeemable non convertible debentures (Refer note (a) below)
3,27,429.73
3,21,565.56
Commercial papers (net of unamortised discount) (Refer note (b) 
below)
51,788.91
7,209.53
3,79,218.64
3,28,775.09
Debt securities in India
3,79,218.64
3,28,775.09
Debt securities outside India
-
-
Total
3,79,218.64
3,28,775.09
Secured
3,17,349.70
2,92,067.78
Unsecured
61,868.94
36,707.31
Total
3,79,218.64
3,28,775.09
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(a) 	Non Convertible Debenture
	
Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 9.85% <= 
10.70%
Rate of interest 
>= 9.75% <= 
10.25%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
1,65,375.51
1,16,253.22
12-24 Months
1,23,768.32
1,56,544.57
24-36 Months
37,779.45
48,767.77
36-48 Months
-
-
48-60 Months
506.45
-
Total
3,27,429.73
3,21,565.56
Nature of Security:
1. 	
Security is created in favour of the Debenture Trustee, as follows:
(i) 	 First pari-passu charge (along with banks, financial institutions and other lenders which provide credit 
facilities to the Issuer) by way of hypothecation of standard asset portfolio of receivables (Net of NPA) 
of the Issuer and / or cash and cash equivalent and / or such other asset, as may be identified by the 
Company of ` 668,139 lakhs (March 2024: ` 515,805 lakhs); and
(ii) 	 First pari-passu charge on immovable property situated at village Maharajpura of Kadi taluka, Mehsana 
district, Gujarat.
2. 	 Debentures may be bought back subject to applicable statutory and/or regulatory requirements, upon the 
terms and conditions as may be decided by the Company.
(b)	 Commercial papers
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 9.00% <= 
10.72%
Rate of interest 
>= 8.90% <= 
10.15%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
51,788.91
7,209.53
Total
51,788.91
7,209.53
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
199
198
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 17	 BORROWINGS
At amortised cost
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Term loans
Term loans from Banks (Refer note (a) below)*
1,12,293.42
72,707.81
Term loans from Financial Institutions (Refer note (a) below)*
54,265.25
23,962.25
Loans repayable on demand
Working capital demand loans from banks **
27,849.73
32,885.13
Other borrowings
1,18,021.19
1,46,612.75
Total
3,12,429.59
2,76,167.94
Borrowings in India
3,12,429.59
2,76,167.94
Borrowings outside India
-
-
Total
3,12,429.59
2,76,167.94
Secured borrowings
3,12,429.59
2,76,167.94
Unsecured borrowings
-
-
Total
3,12,429.59
2,76,167.94
(a)	 Term loan from banks/FI :
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity):
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>=7.89% <= 
11.00%
Rate of interest 
>=8.10% <= 
12.00%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
69,561.67
50,677.09
12-24 Months
54,085.12
30,478.25
24-36 Months
24,289.84
13,761.46
36-48 Months
12,842.78
1,753.26
48-60 Months
5,779.26
-
Total
1,66,558.67
96,670.06
* first pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of standard asset portfolio of receivables (net of provisions) 
of the Company and / or cash and cash equivalent and / or such other asset
** secured by First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation on the standard asset portfolio
(b)	 Working capital demand loans:
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 7.25% <= 
8.60%
Rate of interest 
>= 7.28% <= 
9.52%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
27,849.73
32,885.13
Total
27,849.73
32,885.13
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(c) 	Other borrowings (including Inter corporate deposits)
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 7.78% <= 
10.75%
Rate of interest 
>= 7.70% <= 
10.50%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
58,836.64
61,568.24
12-24 Months
38,686.28
48,718.13
24-36 Months
10,015.19
20,161.45
36-48 Months
1,624.64
1,554.48
48-60 Months
1,601.21
1,712.28
Above 60 Months
7,257.23
12,898.17
Total
1,18,021.19
1,46,612.75
Footnote: Quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with Banks or Financial Institutions are in agreement with the 
unaudited books of accounts as on the respective submission dates and certified by Independent Chartered Accountants / 
Management, as relevant and relied upon by the Auditors.
NOTE 18	 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Book overdraft
13,830.49
255.31
Employee benefits payable
2,123.51
3,027.57
Unamortised lease liabilities
3,725.65
3,923.54
Others
20,616.68
15,275.17
40,296.33
22,481.59
NOTE 19	 PROVISIONS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits:
- Gratuity
598.93
385.22
- Compensated absences
302.38
144.28
901.31
529.50
NOTE 20	NON-FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Statutory dues payable
744.87
724.63
744.87
724.63
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
201
200
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 21	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(a)	 Details of authorised, issued and subscribed share capital
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Authorised capital
Equity shares of ` 10/- each
18,75,00,000
18,750.00
18,75,00,000
18,750.00
Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of 
Face Value of ` 10/- each
1,25,00,000
1,250.00
1,25,00,000
1,250.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Equity shares of ` 10/- each fully paid
13,60,97,447
13,609.74
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
Total
13,60,97,447
13,609.74
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
(b) 	Reconciliation of number of equity shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of 
the year
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
Add: Shares issued during the year
18,152
1.81
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
13,60,97,447
13,609.74
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
(c) 	Particulars of equity shares held by Holding Company
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding 
Company
7,64,82,638
56.20%
7,64,82,638
56.20%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(d) 	Particulars of shareholders holding more than 5% of the equity share capital
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding 
Company
7,64,82,638
56.20%
7,64,82,638
56.20%
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
Promoter
2,32,62,583
17.09%
2,32,62,583
17.09%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(e)	 Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each holder of equity 
shares is entitled to proportionate vote on basis of his contribution to fully paid up share capital.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to 
the proportionate amount of contribution made by the equity shareholder to the total equity share capital.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(f)	 Objective of Capital Management
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company 
complies with externally imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy 
capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of its activities. The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy and the Board reviews the capital 
position on a regular basis.
(g)	 Equity Shares held by promoters/holding company at the end of the year
Promoter Name
No. of Shares
% of 
Total Shares
% change 
during the year
As at March 31, 2025
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
7,64,82,638
56.20%
-
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
2,32,62,583
17.09%
-
As at March 31, 2024
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
7,64,82,638
56.20%
-
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
2,32,62,583
17.09%
(13.38%)
NOTE 22	OTHER EQUITY
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital Reserve
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
32,134.89
31,083.07
Securities premium
2,91,967.65
2,92,207.63
Share options outstanding account
3,934.56
2,122.74
General reserve
3,556.73
3,447.24
Retained earnings
(28,137.11)
(32,260.64)
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
11.01
(3.94)
Share application money pending allotment
10.95
-
Money received against share warrants
25,533.40
-
3,29,012.51
2,96,596.53
Note 22.1 Other equity movement
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
0.43
0.43
Add : Transferred from surplus
-
-
Closing Balance
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
31,083.07
29,650.80
Add : Transferred from surplus
1,051.82
1,432.27
Closing Balance
32,134.89
31,083.07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
203
202
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Securities premium
Opening Balance
2,92,207.63
2,92,207.63
Less : Share issue expenses
(283.22)
-
Add: Transfer from ESOP reserves
12.81
-
Add : Premium collected on allotment of shares
30.43
-
Closing Balance
2,91,967.65
2,92,207.63
-
Share options outstanding account
Opening Balance
2,122.74
2,074.82
Movement during the year
1,811.82
47.92
Closing Balance
3,934.56
2,122.74
General reserve
Opening Balance
3,447.24
2,683.84
Movement during the year
109.49
763.40
Closing Balance
3,556.73
3,447.24
Retained earnings
Opening Balance
(32,260.64)
(37,957.64)
Add: Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
(83.74)
(32.10)
Add: Transferred from the statement of profit and loss
5,259.09
7,161.37
Less: Transfer to statutory reserve as per Section 45-IC of The RBI Act, 
1934
(1,051.82)
(1,432.27)
Closing Balance
(28,137.11)
(32,260.64)
Other Comprehensive Income
Opening balance
(3.94)
(12.52)
Add: Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
14.95
8.58
Closing balance
11.01
(3.94)
Share application money pending allotment
Opening balance
-
-
Add: amount received towards share application
10.95
-
Closing balance
10.95
-
Money received against share warrant
Opening balance
-
-
Add: received against share warrant
25,533.40
-
Closing balance
25,533.40
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
22.2	Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital Reserve
	
Capital reserve comprises of the amount received on shares forfeited by the Company on non-payment of 
call money.
	
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
Statutory reserves fund is required to be created by a Non-Banking Financial Company as per Section 45-
IC of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The Company is not allowed to use the reserve fund except with 
authorisation of Reserve Bank of India.
	
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. It can be utilised in accordance with 
the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Share options outstanding account
The shares options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of equity settled 
options issued to employees under stock option schemes of the Company.
	
Retained earnings
Retained earnings represents surplus of accumulated earnings of the Company and which are available for 
distribution to shareholders.
	
General reserve
General reserve represents transfer of fair value of options granted to employees from ESOP Reserve to 
General Reserve on lapse/forfeiture of vested options by employees.
	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
It includes gain/(loss) on fair valuation of investment in treasuy bills
	
Share application money pending allotment
It represents money received on exercise of vested options by the employees pending allotment of shares. 
The shares have been alloted subsequent to March 31, 2025
	
Money received against share warrant
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 27, 2024 approved issuance of 2,48,18,888 warrants 
of the Company to BCP V Multiple Holdings PTE Limited (the “Holding Company”) and Florintree Tecserv 
LLP, each convertible into, or exchangeable for, 1 fully paid-up equity share of the Company of face value 
of ` 10 by way of a preferential issue on a private placement basis at a issue price of ` 184 per equity 
share, in accordance with Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“SEBI ICDR Regulations”), the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), 
as amended and other applicable laws, and subject to the approval of regulatory/ statutory authorities and 
the shareholders of the Company (the “Preferential Issue”).
The Preferential Issue has subsequently been approved by the Shareholders at the Extra-Ordinary General 
Meeting of the Members held on March 22, 2024.
During the year, the Board of Directors of the Company vide its Circular Resolution passed on May 26, 2024, 
approved the allotment of 1,08,69,565 warrants of the Company on a preferential basis by way of a private 
placement, to Florintree Tecserv LLP. The Company received consideration of ` 5,000 lakhs on the date of 
allotment.
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 18, 2024 approved change in subscription amount 
to be received from BCP V Multiple Holdings PTE Limited (the “Holding Company”) at the time of the 
subscription of the warrants from 25% to 80%.
The Company received requisite approvals for issue of warrants to the Holding Company. Accordingly, the 
Board of Directors of the Company vide its Circular Resolution passed on November 26, 2024, approved the 
allotment of 1,39,49,323 warrants of the Company on a preferential basis by way of a private placement, to 
the Holding Company. The Company received consideration of ` 20,533.40 lakhs on the date of allotment.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
205
204
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 23	REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income
Interest income on financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Interest on loans
- Loan portfolio
1,15,275.95
87,578.87
Interest on investments
- Debt instruments
120.24
118.95
Interest on deposits
- Deposits with banks
2,163.08
1,644.78
- Deposits with Trustees
751.92
1,435.03
Interest income on financial assets measured at FVOCI:
- Investments in debt instruments
1,343.25
701.31
1,19,654.44
91,478.94
Fees and commission income
- Fees Income
6,102.02
4,647.13
- Insurance Income
5,861.64
476.08
11,963.66
5,123.21
Net gain on fair value changes
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
On trading portfolio
- Investments
3,242.76
2,147.32
Others
Net gain/(loss) on sale of financial instruments at FVOCI
1.40
-
3,244.16
2,147.32
Fair value changes:
- Realised
3,083.76
2,124.65
- Unrealised
160.40
22.67
3,244.16
2,147.32
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments under 
amortised cost category
- Investments
7.47
11,668.14
- Assignment Income
5,522.45
-
5,529.92
11,668.14
Total
1,40,392.18
1,10,417.61
NOTE 24	OTHER INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Miscellaneous income
124.10
120.20
Shared service cost recovery
300.00
1,686.53
Interest on income tax refund
420.87
298.33
Profit on sale of property plant and equipment
4.40
-
849.37
2,105.06
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 25	FINANCE COST
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised 
cost:
Interest expense on borrowings
Loans from Banks/FI
17,088.60
18,844.89
Other borrowings (including Inter Corporate Deposits)
13,549.64
11,442.68
Interest expense on debt securities
Debentures
38,025.08
25,919.78
Commercial paper
4,837.48
1,203.87
Other interest expense
Bank charges & other related costs
583.19
703.38
74,083.99
58,114.60
NOTE 26	IMPAIRMENT ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT AMORTISED COST
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Impairment on loans
Provision for expected credit loss
(6,514.38)
(11,030.05)
Financial assets written off (net of recovery)
20,825.87
20,453.30
Impairment on others
Undrawn loan commitments
-
(0.80)
Provision on co-lending arrangements
(587.18)
(1,086.49)
Others
28.03
(29.27)
13,752.34
8,306.69
NOTE 27	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, other allowances and bonus
25,111.99
18,874.51
Gratuity expenses
162.52
107.37
Compensated absences
189.03
49.94
Contribution to provident and other funds
1,096.63
750.41
Staff welfare expenses
1,007.54
586.36
Share based payment expense
2,203.70
812.34
29,771.41
21,180.93
NOTE 28	DEPRECIATION
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (PPE)
2,284.98
1,775.08
Amortisation of intangible assets
776.82
991.29
3,061.80
2,766.37
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
207
206
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 29	OTHER EXPENSES
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rent
1,015.74
979.49
Rates & taxes
644.28
127.69
Printing and stationery
291.90
261.41
Travelling & conveyance
1,656.09
1,184.35
Advertisement
18.91
41.11
Business Promotion
13.10
29.28
Commission & brokerage
9.73
64.29
Office expenses
2,499.83
1,933.85
Directors' fees & commission
48.06
34.95
Insurance
828.04
618.90
Communication expenses
901.47
615.01
Payment to auditors (note below)
176.93
193.46
IT Support charges
2,824.41
2,571.76
Legal & professional charges
4,279.92
6,196.75
Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
-
22.55
Membership & subscriptions
78.15
76.78
Other fees and commission
26.36
41.08
15,312.92
14,992.71
Payment to auditor includes:
a)	
Statutory Audit
160.00
158.00
b) 	 Certifications
9.00
17.25
c) 	 Others
7.93
18.21
Total
176.93
193.46
Footnote : Excludes fees amounting to ` 72.80 lakhs paid to auditor during the year in connection with initial public offer 
of debentures of the Company which forms part of effective interest rate method in accordance with IND AS 109 “Financial 
Instruments”
Details for expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility:
Not applicable
Not applicable
NOTE 30	INCOME TAXES
Tax expense
(a) 	Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current tax expense
Current year
-
-
Tax expenses of earlier years
-
-
-
-
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
-
-
-
-
Tax expense for the year
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(b)	 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
- 	
Remeasurements of the defined 
benefit plans
(111.91)
28.17
(83.74)
(42.90)
10.80
(32.10)
- 	
Debt instruments through other 
comprehensive income
20.00
(5.05)
14.95
11.47
(2.89)
8.58
(91.91)
23.12
(68.79)
(31.43)
7.91
(23.52)
(c) 	Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit/(loss) before tax
5,259.09
7,161.37
Statutory income tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Expected income tax expense
1,323.61
1,802.37
Difference in tax rate due to:
- 	
Effect of non-deductible expenses
36.25
63.83
- 	
DTA recognised on previously unrecognised brought forward 
losses
(1,359.86)
(1,866.20)
Total tax expense
-
-
Effective tax rate
-
-
Current tax
-
-
Tax of earlier years
-
-
Deferred tax
-
-
-
-
(d) 	Movement in deferred tax balances
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Net balance 
April 01, 
2024
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for expected credit loss
17,390.69
(1,736.72)
-
15,653.97
Provision for gratuity
96.95
25.62
28.17
150.74
Provision for leave encashment
36.31
39.80
-
76.11
Debt instruments through OCI
(2.89)
2.90
(5.05)
(5.04)
Income amortisation
(500.68)
(620.52)
-
(1,121.20)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
909.28
65.29
-
974.57
Lease liabilities
91.12
26.88
-
118.00
Carried forward losses
24,012.02
2,066.64
-
26,078.66
Other items of disallowance
-
-
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
209
208
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Net balance 
April 01, 
2024
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill amortisation
(7,555.10)
-
-
(7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
(329.56)
(988.10)
-
(1,317.66)
Borrowing cost amortisation
(2,496.61)
1,118.21
-
(1,378.40)
Deferred tax assets / (Liabilities)
31,651.53
-
23.12
31,674.65
(e)	 Movement in deferred tax balances
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Net balance 
April 01, 
2023
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for expected credit loss
20,366.64
(2,975.95)
-
17,390.69
Provision for gratuity
90.00
(3.85)
10.80
96.95
Provision for leave encashment
26.99
9.32
-
36.31
Debt instruments through OCI
4.20
(4.20)
(2.89)
(2.89)
Income amortisation
(124.62)
(376.06)
-
(500.68)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
825.88
83.40
-
909.28
Lease liabilities
57.95
33.17
-
91.12
Carried forward losses
19,575.18
4,436.84
-
24,012.02
Other items of disallowance
121.29
(121.29)
-
-
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill amortisation
(7,555.10)
-
-
(7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
(605.13)
275.57
-
(329.56)
Borrowing cost amortisation
(1,139.66)
(1,356.95)
-
(2,496.61)
Deferred tax assets / (Liabilities)
31,643.62
-
7.91
31,651.53
The Management considers the deferred tax assets recognised on carried forward losses to be fully set-off 
against future available profits considering the expected net interest income (NIM) from the existing loan book 
over the tenure of the loan. Deferred tax asset of ` 876.83 lakhs (Previous year: ` 2,515.88 lakhs) on Unused 
Carried forward losses is yet to be recognised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 31	 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Basic EPS calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders (after adjusting profit 
impact of dilutive potential equity shares, if any) by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on 
conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity shares.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
i. 	
Profit attributable to equity holders (A)
	
Profit/(loss) for the year
5,259.09
7,161.37
ii. 	 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Basic EPS (B)
13,60,82,508
13,60,79,295
iii. 	 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Diluted EPS (C)
14,06,88,562
13,61,35,973
iv. 	 Basic earnings per share (`) (A/B)
3.86
5.26
v. 	 Diluted earnings per share (`) (A/C)
3.74
5.26
NOTE 32	FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FAIR VALUES AND RISK MANAGEMENT
A.	
Accounting classification and fair values
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market 
conditions, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
	
The management has assessed that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, loans carried at 
amortised cost, other financial assets, trade payables, borrowings, bank/book overdrafts and other financial 
liabilities are a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
B. 	 Risk Management Framework:
	
The Company’s risk management framework is based on
(a) 	 Clear understanding and identification of various risks
(b) 	Disciplined risk assessment by evaluating the probability and impact of each risk
(c) 	 Measurement and monitoring of risks by establishing key risk indicators with thresholds for all critical 
risks and
(d) 	Adequate review mechanism to monitor and control risks.
	
The Company’s risk management division works as a value centre by constantly engaging with the business 
providing reports based on key analysis and insights. The key risks faced by the Company are credit risk, 
liquidity risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational and regulatory risk, which are broadly classified 
as credit risk, market risk and operational risk. The Company has a an established risk reporting and 
monitoring framework. The Company identifies and monitors risks periodically. This Process enables the 
Company to reassess all the critical risks in a changing environment that need to be focused on.
C. 	 Risk governance structure:
	
The Company’s risk governance structure operates with a well-defined Board and Risk Management 
Committee (‘RMC’) with a clearly laid down charter and roles and responsibilities. The Board oversees 
the risk management process and monitors the risk profile of the Company directly as well as through 
a Board constituted Risk Management Committee. The Committee reviews the risk management policy, 
implementation of risk management framework, monitoring of critical risks, review and approval of 
exposures with conflict of interest and review of various other initiatives. The risk management policies are 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
211
210
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate limits and controls 
and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. The RMC reviews the risk management policies regularly to 
reflect the changes in market conditions and Company’s activities.
	
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of risk management framework in relation to the risk faced by the 
Company.
	
The risk management committee has established a comprehensive risk management framework across 
the business and provides appropriate reports on risk exposures and analysis in its pursuit of creating 
awareness across the Company about risk management.
D.	
Fair value hierarchy
	
Ind AS 107, ‘Financial Instrument - Disclosure’ requires classification of the valuation method of financial 
instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which 
reflects the significance of inputs used in the measurements). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to 
un-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and 
lowest priority to un-observable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy 
under Ind AS 107 are described below:
	
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices.
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using 
valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and place limited reliance on entity 
specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is 
included in level.
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments 
covered under 
Ind AS 109
(a) Investments 
in Mutual 
funds
49,511.64
-
-
49,511.64
49,511.64
-
-
49,511.64
(b) Investments 
in Security 
Receipts
-
-
1,02,259.95
1,02,259.95
-
-
1,02,259.95
1,02,259.95
(c) Treasury 
Bills
-
9,653.55
-
9,653.55
9,653.55
-
-
9,653.55
(d) Bonds and 
Government 
securities
-
20,393.31
-
20,393.31
20,393.31
-
-
20,393.31
Total
49,511.64
30,046.86
1,02,259.95
1,81,818.45
79,558.50
-
1,02,259.95
1,81,818.45
* based on NAV statements and other information received from ARC and adjusted for Expected credit losses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments 
covered under 
Ind AS 109
(a) Investments 
in Mutual 
funds
16,723.44
-
-
16,723.44
16,723.44
-
-
16,723.44
(b) Investments 
in Security 
Receipts
-
-
80,887.58
80,887.58
-
-
80,887.58
80,887.58
(c) Treasury 
Bills
-
14,210.78
-
14,210.78
14,210.78
-
-
14,210.78
(d) Bonds and 
Government 
securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
16,723.44
14,210.78
80,887.58
1,11,821.80
30,934.22
-
80,887.58
1,11,821.80
* based on NAV statements and other information received from ARC and adjusted for Expected credit losses.
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding impairment loss allowances 
in relation to investments measured at amortised cost is as follows:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
-
- 1,17,530.96 1,17,530.96
-
-
42,871.31
42,871.31
New assets originated or 
purchased
-
-
40,545.67
40,545.67
-
-
90,051.90
90,051.90
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write 
offs)
-
-
(19,361.42)
(19,361.42)
-
-
(15,392.25)
(15,392.25)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
-
-
1,38,715.21
1,38,715.21
-
- 1,17,530.96
1,17,530.96
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Impairment loss allowance 
- opening balance
-
-
36,643.38
36,643.38
-
-
24,576.64
24,576.64
Incremental provisions 
(net)
-
-
(188.12)
(188.12)
-
-
12,066.74
12,066.74
Impairment loss allowance 
- closing balance
-
-
36,455.26
36,455.26
-
-
36,643.38
36,643.38
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
213
212
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered 
under Ind AS 
109
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
Total
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered 
under Ind AS 
109
-
-
5,98,730.29 5,98,730.29
-
-
5,98,730.29 5,98,730.29
Total
-
-
5,98,730.29 5,98,730.29
-
-
5,98,730.29 5,98,730.29
 * Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of loans.
E. 	 Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises when a borrower is unable to meet his contractual obligations to the lender. The effective 
management of credit risk requires the establishment of appropriate credit risk policies and processes. 
The Company has comprehensive and well defined credit policies across various businesses, products and 
segments, which encompass credit approval process for all businesses along with guidelines for mitigating 
the risks associated with them. The appraisal process includes detailed risk assessment of the borrowers, 
physical verifications and field visits. The Company has a well-defined post sanction monitoring process to 
identify portfolio-wise credit risk trends and early warning signals. This enables it to implement necessary 
changes to the credit policy, whenever the need arises to prevent any further slippage in the credit quality.
	
Grouping financial assets measured on a collective basis
	
The Company splits its exposure into smaller homogeneous portfolios, based on shared credit risk 
characteristics, as described below in the following order:
	
- Customer i.e. corporate and retail
	
- Nature of product i.e. commercial vehicle, corporate lending, SME and Micro lap
	
Significant increase in credit risk
	
The credit risk on a financial asset of the Company are assumed to have increased significantly since 
initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The retail loans where the 
renegotiated terms are not substantially different and involve repayment terms to be extended including 
interest or the EMI amount readjusted over the tenure are classified as Stage 2. In case of corporate loan the 
assessment of significant increase in credit risk is performed on a case to case basis. Additionally, accounts 
identified and reviewed by the credit committee for labelling as breaching pre-defined critical credit risk 
parameters will also be classified as Stage 2. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 2, 
based on the quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
Write off
	
The Company writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the counterparty is in 
severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Financial assets written off may still 
be subject to enforcement activities under the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal 
advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in Statement of profit and loss.
	
Restructured financial assets
	
A loan where repayment terms are renegotiated on substantially different terms as compared to the original 
contracted terms due to significant increase in credit risk of the borrower are classified as stage 2. Such 
loans continue to be in stage 2 until they exhibit regular payment of renegotiated principal and interest over 
a minimum observation period typically 12 months-post renegotiation, and there are no other indicators 
of impairment. Having satisfied the conditions of timely payment over the observation period these loans 
could be transferred to stage 1 or 2 and a fresh assessment of the risk of default is done.
	
Overview of the Expected Credit Loss principles
	
The Company records allowance for expected credit losses for all loans, debt financial assets not held at 
FVTPL, undrawn loan commitments (referred to as ‘financial instruments’).
	
For the computation of ECL on the financial instruments, the Company categories its financial instruments 
as mentioned below:
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
or that has low credit risk at the reporting date and that are not credit impaired upon origination are 
classified under this stage. The Company classifies all advances upto 30 days overdue under this category.
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified as Stage 2 when the amount is due for more than 30 days but less than 
90 days. All exposures where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition but 
are not credit impaired are classified under this stage.
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset have occurred. Exposures where the amount remains 
due for 90 days or more are considered as to be stage 3 assets.
	
The Company has established a policy to perform an assessment, at the end of each reporting period, of 
whether a financial instrument’s credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. The Company 
undertakes the classification of exposures within the aforesaid stages at borrower level.
	
Definition of default
	
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make the contractual payments within 90 
days of when they fall due. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 3, if on the reporting 
date, it has been 90 days and above past due. Non-payment on another obligation of the same customer 
is also considered as a Stage 3. In addition, Company shall also classify those accounts as default which 
meets the criteria as per the RBI circular RBI/2021-2022/125 DOR.STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 
November 12, 2021.
	
The calculation of ECL
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit losses (i.e. present value of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of 
the financial instruments. Cash shortfalls are the difference between the cash flows that the entity is entitled 
to receive on account of contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined below and the key elements are as follows:
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
215
214
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
Portfolio Segmentation:
	
For ECL purpose, the loan portfolio is broadly segmented as below :
	
1) Corporate lending
	
2) Small and medium enterprises lending (‘SME’)
	
3) Commercial vehicle lending
	
4) Micro lap
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The Exposure at Default is the amount the Company is entitled to receive as 
on reporting date including repayments due for principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or 
otherwise, expected drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
Probability of Default (PD) : The Probability of Default is an estimate of the likelihood of default of the 
exposure over a given time horizon. A default may only happen at a certain time over the assessed period, 
if the facility has not been previously derecognised and is still in the portfolio.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The Loss Given Default is an estimate of the loss arising in the case where a 
default occurs at a given time. It is based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due and 
those that the lender would expect to receive, including from the realisation of any collateral.
	
The ECL allowance is applied on the financial instruments depending upon the classification of the financial 
instruments as per the credit risk involved. ECL allowance is computed on the below mentioned basis:
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is the portion of Lifetime ECL that represents the ECL that results from 
default events on a financial instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date. 
12-month ECL is applied on stage 1 assets.
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for credit losses expected to arise over the life of the asset in cases of credit 
impaired loans and in case of financial instruments where there has been significant increase in credit 
risk since origination. Lifetime ECL is the expected credit loss resulting from all possible default events 
over the expected life of a financial instrument. Lifetime ECL is applied on stage 2 and stage 3 assets. The 
Company computes the ECL allowance either on individual basis or on collective basis, depending on the 
nature of the underlying portfolio of financial instruments. The Company has grouped its loan portfolio into 
Corporate loans, SME loans, Commercial vehicle loans and Micro lap.
	
Forward looking information
	
The Company employs statistical models to analyse the data collected and generate estimates of the 
remaining lifetime PD of exposures and how these are expected to change as a result of the passage of time. 
Such statistical models are selected considering the availability of information related to the probability of 
default for each product. This analysis includes the identification and calibration of relationships between 
changes in GNPA as proxy for default rates and changes in key macro-economic factors. Key economic 
indicators considered for forward looking includes:
	
• Gross national income growth
	
• Inflation % change over previous year
	
For the purpose of determination of impact of forward looking information, the Company applies macro 
economic (ME) variables as stated above to each product and assess the trend of the historical probability 
of defaults as compared to the forecasted probability of default. Based on the directional trend of output, 
management applies an overlay if required. Overtime, new ME variable may emerge to have a better 
correlation and may replace ME being used now.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation 
to loans and advances is as follows:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
5,66,073.97
32,457.45
31,269.97
6,29,801.39
4,10,306.00
1,17,199.41
46,224.01
5,73,729.42
New assets originated or 
purchased
5,22,718.73
2,099.87
3,777.37
5,28,595.97
4,56,640.80
8,644.98
3,332.69
4,68,618.47
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write 
offs)
(3,13,159.27) (24,480.74)
(15,597.78) (3,53,237.79) (2,35,629.02) (50,865.68) (19,541.60) (3,06,036.30)
Transfers to stage 1
32,328.87 (27,375.89)
(4,952.98)
-
27,933.58 (22,804.02)
(5,129.56)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(1,23,256.01) 1,24,075.50
(819.49)
-
(79,594.64)
86,040.77
(6,446.13)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(16,235.25)
(36,311.60)
52,546.85
-
(8,705.75)
(21,696.25)
30,402.00
-
Amounts written off (net 
of recovery)
(982.03)
(5,609.02) (14,234.82)
(20,825.87)
-
(9,693.89)
(10,759.41)
(20,453.30)
Presented under 
Investment as Security 
Receipts*
(276.36)
(19,385.17) (18,275.48)
(37,937.01)
(4,877.00)
(74,367.87)
(6,812.03)
(86,056.90)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
6,67,212.65
45,470.40
33,713.64
7,46,396.69
5,66,073.97
32,457.45
31,269.97
6,29,801.39
* Presented under Investment as Security Receipts (Refer to note 32(D))
$Reasonable steps are being taken by the Management for recovery of the principal and interest.
Reconciliation of Impairment loss allowance is given below:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Impairment loss 
allowance - opening 
balance
10,297.60
2,296.11
18,477.39
31,071.10
10,920.45
17,734.39
25,513.05
54,167.89
New assets originated or 
purchased
6,912.94
598.46
1,156.39
8,667.79
11,722.40
548.95
1,528.56
13,799.91
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write 
offs)
(5,088.18)
(1,336.97) (17,377.03)
(23,802.18)
(6,348.95)
(5,335.89) (9,883.09)
(21,567.93)
Transfers to stage 1
3,429.99
(1,050.68)
(2,379.31)
-
4,814.69
(1,962.09) (2,852.60)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(3,622.64)
4,002.77
(380.13)
-
(4,104.03)
7,118.52 (3,014.49)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(1,395.26)
(1,578.46)
2,973.72
-
(2,113.25)
(2,081.65)
4,194.90
-
Impact on year end ECL 
of exposures transferred 
between stages during 
the year
(2,810.05)
1,372.77
21,265.20
19,827.92
(4,463.26)
(203.61)
12,368.43
7,701.56
Amounts written off (net 
of recovery)
(136.07) (2,875.40) (8,008.32)
(11,019.79)
(130.45)
(13,522.51)
(9,377.37)
(23,030.33)
Impairment loss 
allowance - closing 
balance
7,588.33
1,428.60
15,727.91
24,744.84
10,297.60
2,296.11
18,477.39
31,071.10
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
217
216
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
F. 	 Liquidity risk
Liquidity is the Company’s capacity to fund increase in assets and meet both the expected and unexpected 
obligations without incurring unacceptable losses. Liquidity risk is the inability to meet such obligations 
as they become due without adversely affecting the Company’s financial conditions. The Asset Liability 
Management Policy of the Company stipulates a broad framework for Liquidity risk management to ensure 
that the Company can meet its liquidity obligations. The Asset Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) 
monitors composition, characteristics and diversification of funding sources to ensure there is no over 
reliance on single source of funding. The Company tracks the cash flow mismatches for measuring and 
managing net funding requirement and reviews short-term liquidity profiles based on business projections 
and other commitments for planning purposes through Liquidity analysis. The ALCO also reviews the 
individual mismatch in each time bucket and cumulative mismatch and ensures the bucket wise limits are 
not breached.
The Company maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse assets that are assumed to be easily 
liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption in cash flow. The liquidity position of the Company is 
assessed under a variety of scenarios giving due consideration to stress factors relating to both the market 
in general and risk specifics to the Company. Basis the liquidity position assessed under various stress 
scenarios; the Company reviews the following to effectively handle any liquidity crisis:
• 	
Adequacy of contingency funding plan in terms of depth of various funding sources, time to activate, 
cost of borrowing, etc
• 	
Availability of unencumbered eligible assets 
Maturity profile of cash flows for financial liabilities as on balance sheet date have been provided below:
As on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
8.05
-
-
-
8.05
Debt securities
95,547.28
1,21,617.14
1,62,054.22
-
3,79,218.64
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
46,981.86
1,09,266.18
1,48,924.32
7,257.23
3,12,429.59
Other financial liabilities
36,759.10
592.34
2,763.78
181.11
40,296.33
Total
1,79,296.29
2,31,475.66
3,13,742.32
7,438.34
7,31,952.61
Notes: - The above inflows and outflows is based on scheduled maturity of the financial instruments.
- ` 16,900.00 lakhs classified as per contractual maturity above pertains to borrowing which exceeds the limits 
specified in the covenants.
- Also refer note Note 41 
As on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
130.32
-
-
-
130.32
Debt securities
8,586.26
1,14,876.48
2,05,312.35
-
3,28,775.09
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
35,821.76
1,09,308.70
1,18,139.31
12,898.17
2,76,167.94
Other financial liabilities
18,728.20
528.86
2,856.22
368.31
22,481.59
Total
63,266.54
2,24,714.04
3,26,307.88
13,266.48
6,27,554.94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities including their levels in 
the fair value hierarchy: 
As on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Carrying 
amount
Fair value
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
At amortised cost
Debt securities
3,79,218.64
-
-
3,79,218.64
3,79,218.64
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
3,12,429.59
-
-
3,12,429.59
3,12,429.59
Total
6,91,648.23
-
-
6,91,648.23
6,91,648.23
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
As on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Carrying 
amount
Fair value
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
At amortised cost
Debt securities
3,28,775.09
-
-
3,28,775.09
3,28,775.09
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
2,76,167.94
-
-
2,76,167.94
2,76,167.94
Total
6,04,943.03
-
-
6,04,943.03
6,04,943.03
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
G. 	 Market risk
	
Market Risk is the possibility of loss arising from changes in the value of a financial instrument as a result of 
changes in market variables such as interest rates, exchange rates and other asset prices. The Company’s 
exposure to market risk is a function of asset liability management and interest rate sensitivity assessment. 
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk and liquidity risk, if the same is not managed properly. The 
Company continuously monitors these risks and manages them through appropriate risk limits. The Asset 
Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) reviews market related trends and risks and adopts various 
strategies related to assets and liabilities, in line with the Company’s risk management framework.
H. 	 Operational risk
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, 
or from external events. The operational risks of the Company are managed through comprehensive internal 
control systems and procedures. Failure of managing operational risk might lead to legal / regulatory 
implications due to non-compliance and lead to financial loss due to control failures. While it is not practical 
to eliminate all the operational risk, the Company has put in place adequate control framework by way of 
segregation of duties, well defined process, staff training, maker and checker process, authorisation and 
clear reporting structure. The effectiveness of control framework is assessed by internal audit on a periodic 
basis.
	
To manage fraud risk effectively, the Company has Independent Risk Containment Unit (‘RCU’) which 
is responsible for implementing fraud risk management framework and ensure compliance. The RCU 
undertakes various activities such as pre-sanction loan applicant verification, pre-sanction and post 
disbursement documents verification, vendor verification, etc to prevent and manage frauds.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
219
218
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
I. 	
Capital Disclosure
	
The Company maintains adequate capital to cover risks inherent in the business and is meeting the capital 
adequacy requirements of our regulator, Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’). The adequacy of the Company’s 
capital is monitored using, among other measures, the regulations issued by RBI.
	
The Company has complied in full with all its externally imposed capital requirements over the reported 
period.
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company 
complies with externally imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy 
capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of its activities. The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy and the Board reviews the capital 
position on a regular basis.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
CRAR – Tier I capital (%)
28.46%
28.87%
CRAR – Tier II capital (%)
0.00%
0.00%
CRAR (%)
28.46%
28.87%
NOTE 33 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES, AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 
(IND AS 24) ARE GIVEN BELOW:
a) 	 Relationships
	
I. 	
Ultimate Controlling Party
	
	
Brookfield Asset Management Inc.
	
II. 	 Holding Company
	
	
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
	
III. 	 Subsidiary Company
	
	
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
	
	
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited)
	
IV.	 Names of other related parties with whom the Company had transactions during the year:
	
	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Randhir Singh - Executive Vice Chairman & Whole Time Director (w.e.f July 22, 2024)
Karthikeyan Srinivasan - Chief Executive Officer & Whole Time Director
Bobby Parikh - Non-Executive Independent Director (upto March 04, 2025) and Non-Executive 
Director (w.e.f. March 05, 2025)
Hemant Kaul - Non-Executive Independent Director
Naina Krishna Murthy - Non-Executive Independent Director
b) 	 Transactions with Holding Company
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Money Received against Share Warrants
20,533.40
-
Upfront Fees Paid
-
1,228.41
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
c) 	 Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMP):
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Short-term employee benefits
563.36
196.44
Sitting fees to Non-Executive Independent Directors
48.06
34.95
Reimbursement of expenses
0.82
1.62
The above compensation excludes contributions to post-employment defined benefit plan and share based 
payment expense.
d) 	 Transactions other than those with key management personnel :
Particulars
Subsidiary 
Companies
Shared service cost recovery
2025
300.00
2024
1,686.53
Loan given to subsidiary
2025
-
2024
6,500.00
Loan (repaid) by subsidiary
2025
-
2024
(6,500.00)
Interest income on loan to subsidiary
2025
-
2024
143.85
e) 	 The related party balances outstanding at year end are as follows:
Particulars
Holding  
Company
Subsidiary 
Companies
Investment in subsidiary
2025
-
45,001.00
2024
-
45,270.58
Reimbursement of expenses
2025
-
348.00
2024
1,351.37
1,979.26
NOTE 34	SET OUT BELOW IS THE DISAGGREGATION OF THE REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH 
CUSTOMERS
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Type of Services or service
Fees and commission income
6,102.02
4,647.13
Total revenue from contracts with customers
6,102.02
4,647.13
Geographical markets
India
6,102.02
4,647.13
Outside India
-
-
Total revenue from contracts with customers
6,102.02
4,647.13
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
6,102.02
4,647.13
Services transferred over time
-
-
Total revenue from contracts with customers
6,102.02
4,647.13
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
221
220
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 35	CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contingent liabilities:
Corporate guarantee given by Company to banks
-
2,375.00
Litigation cases filed against the Company
43.00
71.04
Capital commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account
86.95
86.95
Loans sanctioned not yet disbursed
9,809.52
13,380.32
NOTE 36	DISCLOSURES AS REQUIRED BY IND AS 116 ‘LEASES’
(A) 	Lease liability movement
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
3,923.54
2,749.03
Add : Adjustments/additions during the year
679.14
2,381.33
Add : Interest on lease liability
374.52
320.46
Less : Deletions
(191.02)
(705.55)
Less : Lease rental payments
(1,060.53)
(821.73)
3,725.65
3,923.54
(B) 	Future lease cashflow for all leased assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
1,120.02
1,058.10
Later than one year but not later than five years
3,317.11
3,551.36
Later than five years
202.07
410.83
4,639.20
5,020.29
(C) 	Maturity analysis of lease liability
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease liability
Less than 12 months
780.76
699.01
More than 12 months
2,944.89
3,224.53
3,725.65
3,923.54
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 37	DUES TO MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES AS PER MSMED ACT, 2006
The following disclosure is made as per the requirement under The Micro Small and Medium Enterprise 
Development Act, 2006 (the ‘MSMED Act’) on the basis of confirmations sought from suppliers on registration 
with the specified authorities under MSMED :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a. 	 Principal amount remaining unpaid
6.23
114.85
b. 	 Interest due thereon remaining unpaid
-
-
c. 	 Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along 
with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the 
appointed day
-
-
d. 	 Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
period) but without adding interest specified under the Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises Act,2006)
-
-
e. 	 Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
-
-
f. 	
Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to 
the small enterprises
-
-
The aforementioned is based on the responses received by the Company to its inquiries with suppliers with 
regard to applicability under the said Act. This has been relied upon by the auditors.
No interest has been paid/is payable by the Company during the year to the suppliers registered under this Act.
Ageing analysis of Trade Payable 
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from  
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 Years
(i) MSME
6.23
-
-
-
6.23
(ii) Others
1.82
-
-
-
1.82
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from  
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 Years
(i) MSME
114.85
-
-
-
114.85
(ii) Others
15.47
-
-
-
15.47
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
223
222
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 38	GRATUITY AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Company has a funded defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more 
of service is eligible for gratuity on separation at 15 days basic salary (last drawn salary) for each completed 
year of service.
Based on Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read together with 
paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2016, the following disclosures have been made as required by the standard: 
A. 	 Amount recognised in the balance sheet
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Present value of the obligation as at the end of the year
603.94
389.90
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
5.01
4.68
Net (asset) / liability to be recognised in the balance sheet
598.93
385.22
B. 	 Change in projected benefit obligation
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Projected benefit of obligation at the beginning of the year
389.90
361.96
Current service cost
138.81
88.61
Past service cost
-
-
Interest cost
24.47
22.31
Benefits paid
(60.72)
(122.65)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation
111.48
39.67
Projected benefit obligation at the end of the year
603.94
389.90
C. 	 Change in plan assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
4.68
4.36
Return on plan assets
0.76
3.55
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(0.43)
(3.23)
Benefits paid
-
-
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
5.01
4.68
D. 	 Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current service cost
138.81
88.61
Past service cost and loss/(gain) on curtailments and settlement
-
-
Net interest cost
23.71
18.76
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
162.52
107.37
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
E. 	 Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Actuarial (gains) / loss
- change in financial assumption
77.38
1.85
- change in demographic assumption
-
-
- experience variation
34.10
37.82
Return on plan assets, excluding amount recognised in net interest 
expense
0.43
3.23
111.91
42.90
F. 	 Assumptions used
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.55%
7.15%
Salary growth rate
9.50%
6.00%
Withdrawal rate
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
G. 	 Sensitivity analysis 
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding 
other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown 
below.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Discount rate (0.5% movement)
593.14
615.14
383.81
396.18
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement)
614.27
593.84
396.09
383.76
Withdrawal rate (10% movement)
577.10
634.12
379.50
401.04
H. 	 Other information :
1. 	
Plans assets comprises 100% of Insurance funds.
2. 	 The expected contribution for the next year is ` 175.59 lakhs.
3. 	 The average outstanding term of the obligations as at valuation date is 3.27 years.
4. 	 The above disclosure is based on report and assumptions provided by the actuary and has been relied 
upon by the Auditors.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
225
224
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 39	EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS
The Company provides share-based employee benefits to the employees of the Company, Subsidiary Company, 
the Directors, whether a whole time Director or otherwise but excluding Non-Executive Independent Directors, 
including the Directors of the Company, or a Subsidiary Company, such other entities or individuals as may be 
permitted by Applicable Laws and any of the aforesaid employees who are on deputation at the request of the 
Company and during the year ended March 31, 2025, employee stock option plans (ESOPs) were in existence. 
The relevant details of the schemes and the grant are as below.
A. 	 Description of share-based payment arrangements
	
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has the following share-based payment arrangements:
	
Share option plans (equity settled)
	
According to the Schemes, the employees selected by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) 
from time to time will be entitled to options, subject to satisfaction of the prescribed vesting conditions. 
The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options granted is 5 to 6.5 
years.
I. 	
Details of the ESOP
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP 
Plan 2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
Date of Shareholder's Approval
July 30, 2012
May 09, 2016
October 17, 
2016
April 28, 2017 December 15, 
2017
Total Number of Options approved
15,00,000
27,00,000
30,00,000
20,00,000
60,00,000
Vesting Requirements
Vesting Criteria will specified for each Option Holder by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee at the time of grant of Options. For valid 
vesting of Options, the concerned Option Holder is required to be an 
Eligible Employee on the respective Vesting Date and not be subject to 
any disciplinary proceedings pending against him/her. Unless the NRC 
provides otherwise, the Vesting of Options granted hereunder shall be 
stalled / blocked during any unauthorised and unpaid leave of absence for 
such period as may prescribed by NRC or for any Cause as deemed fit by 
the NRC.
For performance based options granted under the ESOP Plans, options 
shall vest based on achievement of defined annual performance parameters 
as determined by the NRC. The performance parameters will be based on 
a combination of relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and operating 
performance metrics of the Company as decided by the NRC. Each of the 
above performance parameters will be distinct for the purposes of the 
calculation of quantity of shares to be vested based on performance. These 
instruments will generally vest between a minimum of one to maximum of 
six and half years from the grant date.
The Pricing Formula
Options can be Exercised at any of the following Exercise Price, as may 
be determined by the NRC at its sole discretion at the time of grant of 
Options:
(i) 	 Fair Market Value rounded to the nearest rupee; or(ii) Market Price 
rounded to the nearest rupee; or(iii) such price as may be determined 
by the NRC. However, the Exercise Price shall not be less than the Fair 
Market Value of the Shares.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Maximum term of Options granted 
(years)
Options granted under the ESOP Plans would vest not less than 1 (one) 
year from the date of grant of Options. Options shall be capable of being 
exercised within a period of 4 years from the Date of Vesting.
Performance based optins will generally vest between a minimum of one 
to maximum of six and half years from the grant date.
Method of Settlement
Equity
Source of shares
Primary
Variation in terms of ESOP
None
Method used for accounting of 
options
Fair Value Method
II. 	 Option Movement during the year ended March 2025
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
No. of Options Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
31,750
13,39,500
10,000
11,80,250
36,77,136
Options Granted during the year
-
-
-
5,00,000
19,47,424
Options Forfeited / Lapsed during 
the year
6,750
2,58,500
-
-
4,34,756
Options Exercised during the year
-
4,500
-
-
13,652
Total number of shares arising as a 
result of exercise of options
-
4,500
-
-
13,652
Money realised by exercise of 
options (` lakhs)
-
6.26
-
-
25.99
Number of Options Outstanding at 
the end of the year
25,000
10,76,500
10,000
16,80,250
51,76,152
Number of Options exercisable at 
the end of the year
15,000
4,90,850
10,000
4,11,500
7,71,168
Weighted average market price 
of options exercised for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 (` )
-
263.20
-
-
269.64
III. 	 Option Movement during the year ended March 2024
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
No. of Options Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
35,700
19,13,000
1,46,500
2,30,000
3,98,500
Options Granted during the year
-
-
-
10,25,000
35,75,492
Options Forfeited / Lapsed during 
the year
3,950
5,73,500
1,36,500
74,750
2,96,856
Options Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Total number of shares arising as a 
result of exercise of options
-
-
-
-
-
Money realised by exercise of 
options (` lakhs)
-
-
-
-
-
Number of options Outstanding at 
the end of the year
31,750
13,39,500
10,000
11,80,250
36,77,136
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
227
226
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Number of Options exercisable at 
the end of the year
14,250
3,59,950
10,000
1,55,250
1,14,450
Weighted average market price 
of options exercised for the year 
ended March 31, 2024 (` )
-
-
-
-
-
IV. 	 Weighted Average remaining contractual life
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Range of Exercise Price  
(` per share)
218.00
139.00 - 
437.00
255.00
219.05 - 
437.00
131.45 - 
437.00
No. of Options Outstanding as on 
March 31, 2025
25,000
10,76,500
10,000
16,80,250
51,76,152
Remaining Contractual Life  
(in years)
0.94
0.84
-
2.15
1.98
V. 	 Method and Assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted:
The fair value of the awards are estimated using the Black-Scholes Model for time and non-market 
performance-based options and Monte Carlo simulation model is used for Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
based options.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
Variables
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
1. 	
Risk Free Interest Rate
-
-
-
6.53%
6.86%
2. 	 Expected Life(in years)
-
-
-
3.88
5.00
3. 	 Expected Volatility
-
-
-
45.64%
44.33%
4. 	 Dividend Yield
-
-
-
0.0%
0.0%
5. 	 Exercise Price
-
-
-
235.50
250.43
6. 	 Price of the underlying share 
in market at the time of the 
option grant.(` )
-
-
-
235.50
250.43
VI. 	 Effect of share-based payment transactions on the Company’s Profit or Loss for the year:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Employee share based expense
2,203.70
812.34
Total ESOP reserve outstanding
3,934.56
2,122.74
NOTE 40	DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO IND AS 108 ‘OPERATING SEGMENTS’
The Company is primarily engaged in business of financing and has provided segmental information in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as per Ind AS 108 - Operating Segments.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 41	 MATURITY PATTERN OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
An analysis of its assets and liabilities according to their timing of recoverability and settlement has been 
presented below in a tabulated format.
Particulars
Note
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
3
9,192.46
-
9,192.46
38,773.39
-
38,773.39
Bank balances other than cash 
and cash equivalents
4
997.00
31,563.54
32,560.54
1,652.74
27,523.04
29,175.78
Loans
5
2,53,628.94
4,68,022.91
7,21,651.85
2,03,491.18
3,95,239.11
5,98,730.29
Investments
6
79,558.50
1,02,260.95
1,81,819.45
43,684.22
1,13,408.16
1,57,092.38
Other financial assets
7
2,214.46
10,234.00
12,448.46
5,755.78
28,002.92
33,758.70
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net)
8
-
1,137.81
1,137.81
-
7,539.22
7,539.22
Deferred tax assets (net)
9
-
31,674.65
31,674.65
-
31,651.53
31,651.53
Property, plant and equipment
10
-
5,955.24
5,955.24
-
5,567.39
5,567.39
Assets acquired in satisfaction of 
claim
11
-
1,300.00
1,300.00
-
1,300.00
1,300.00
Goodwill
-
30,018.69
30,018.69
-
30,018.69
30,018.69
Other intangible assets
12
-
539.00
539.00
-
1,070.68
1,070.68
Other non-financial assets
13
2,614.42
308.47
2,922.89
3,475.06
860.42
4,335.48
Non - current asset held for sale
14
45,000.00
-
45,000.00
-
-
-
TOTAL ASSETS
3,93,205.78 6,83,015.26 10,76,221.04 2,96,832.37
6,42,181.16
9,39,013.53
Particulars
Note
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities*
Trade payables
15
8.05
-
8.05
130.32
-
130.32
Debt securities
16
2,17,164.42
1,62,054.22
3,79,218.64
1,23,462.74
2,05,312.35
3,28,775.09
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
17
1,56,248.04
1,56,181.55
3,12,429.59
1,45,130.45
1,31,037.49
2,76,167.94
Other financial liabilities
18
37,351.44
2,944.89
40,296.33
19,257.06
3,224.53
22,481.59
Non-financial liabilities
Provisions
19
276.41
624.90
901.31
159.30
370.20
529.50
Other non-financial liabilities
20
744.87
-
744.87
724.63
-
724.63
TOTAL LIABILITIES
4,11,793.23 3,21,805.56 7,33,598.79 2,88,864.50 3,39,944.57
6,28,809.07
* also refer note 32(F)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
229
228
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 42 OTHER NOTES
Note 42.1
In relation to the loans portfolio, the Management has on a best effort basis and knowledge, has identified 
transactions with Nil financiers (previous year Nil) aggregating ` Nil (previous year Nil) used for refinancing 
loans of the customers.
Note 42.2
The disclosure on the following matters required under Schedule III as amended not being relevant or applicable 
in case of the Company, same are not covered:
a) 	 The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
b) 	 No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
c) 	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
d) 	 The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
e) 	 Charges or satisfaction to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) have been registered within the 
stipulated statutory timelines.
f) 	 There are no transactions which are not recorded in the books of account which have been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
g) 	 In respect of the disclosure required vide notification dated March 24, 21 issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the Company has taken steps to identify transactions with the struck-off companies and considering 
the nature of business which is primarily lending to individuals and other small players, there are no such 
transactions which may be required to be reported.
h) 	 The provision related to number of layers as prescribed under section 2(87) of the Companies Act read with 
Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017 is not applicable to Company.
i) 	
Other than the loans and advances given in normal course of business, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Company to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party 
identified by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The Company has also not received any 
fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Company shall whether, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
j) 	
Title deed of immovable property has been held in the name of the Company
k) 	 The Company has used seven accounting software, for maintaining its books of account (including two 
accounting software managed and maintained by a third-party software service provider) which has a 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, except that no audit trail feature was enabled at database 
level in respect of Four accounting software and in case of one accounting software, the audit trail feature 
at the database level was enabled with effect from July 01, 2024 to log any direct data changes.
Further, to the extent enabled, audit trail feature has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the accounting software. Also, we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with. Additionally, the audit trail of previous year has been preserved by the Company as per 
the statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it was enabled and recorded in previous year.
The Company has established and maintained an adequate internal control framework and based on its 
assessment, believes that this was effective throughout the year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 43 ASSET LIABILITY MANAGEMENT
Particulars
1 to 7 
days
8 to 14 
days
15 to 30 
days
Over one 
month to 
2 months
Over 2 
months 
upto 3 
months
Over 3 
months 
upto 6 
months
Over 6 
months to 
1 year
Over 1 year 
to 3 years
Over 3 
years to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Total
Liabilities:
Borrowings from 
banks/FI
367.39
2,880.53
1,812.25
3,068.01
27,874.94
28,811.88
32,596.40
78,374.96
18,622.04
- 1,94,408.40
Market borrowings
269.18
-
15,328.33 50,762.38
40,166.13
99,158.04
70,317.00
2,10,249.24
3,732.30
7,257.23
4,97,239.83
Assets:
Loans & advances 
(gross)
13,569.31
9,649.67
5,385.77
20,619.87
22,070.33
62,466.42 1,28,564.28
3,80,618.00
85,088.44
18,364.60 7,46,396.69
Investments*
79,558.50
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,02,259.95
1.00
1,81,819.45
Notes:
- 	
The above inflows and outflows is based on scheduled maturity of the financial instruments.
- 	
` 16,900.00 lakhs classified as per contractual maturity above pertains to borrowing which exceeds the 
limits specified in the covenants.
* 	
Excludes inflow from investment in subsidiary of ` 45,000 lakhs shown under non - current asset held for 
sale (refer note 14)
In addition to the investments shown in the table above, the Company also has cash and cash equivalents as 
mentioned below and undrawn funding lines amounting to ` 28,000.00 lakhs
- 	
Cash & Cash Equivalents (refer note 3)
9,192.46
- 	
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents (refer note 4)
32,560.54
Total
41,753.00
NOTE 44	EXPOSURE TO REAL ESTATE SECTOR
Category
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
A
Direct exposure
i.
Residential Mortgages
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property 
that is or will be occupied by the borrower or that is rented; 
Individual housing loans up to 15 lakhs ` NIL. (Previous year ` 
NIL)
21,705.39
22,711.61
ii.
Commercial Real Estate
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estate’s 
(office buildings, retail space, multipurpose commercial 
premises, multi-family residential buildings, multi-tenanted 
commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, 
land acquisition, development and construction, etc.). Exposure 
would also include non-fund based (NFB) limits;
25,441.73
54,221.56
iii.
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other 
securitised exposures
- Residential
Nil
Nil
- Commercial Real Estate
Nil
Nil
B
Indirect Exposure
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing 
Bank (NHB) and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
45,348.00
49,623.84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
231
230
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 45	EXPOSURE TO CAPITAL MARKET
Category
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible 
debentures and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of 
which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt;
-
-
2
Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities 
or on clean basis to individuals for investment in shares (including 
IPOs / ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and units 
of equity-oriented mutual funds;
-
-
3
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds 
or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds 
are taken as primary security;
-
-
4
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the 
collateral security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the 
primary security other than shares / convertible bonds / convertible 
debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully 
cover the advances;
-
-
5
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees 
issued on behalf of stockbrokers and market makers;
-
-
6
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares 
/ bonds / debentures or other securities or on clean basis for 
meeting promoter's contribution to the equity of new companies in 
anticipation of raising resources;
-
-
7
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues;
-
-
8
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and 
unregistered)
-
-
9
Underwriting commitments taken up by the NBFCs in respect 
of primary issue of shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds;
-
-
10
Financing to stockbrokers for margin trading;
-
-
11
All exposures to Alternative Investment Funds:
i 	
Category I
-
-
ii 	
Category II
-
-
iii 	
Category III
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 46	OTHER DISCLOSURES PURSUANT TO THE RBI MASTER DIRECTIONS FOR NBFC
I -	
Break up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ shown under the head Expenditure in Statement of Profit 
and Loss
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
Provisions for depreciation on Investment
(188.12)
12,066.74
2
Provision towards NPA#
(2,749.48)
(7,035.66)
3
Provision made towards Income tax
-
-
4
Other Provision and Contingencies
(559.15)
(1,116.56)
5
Provision for Standard Assets and other receivable*
(3,576.78)
(16,061.13)
# represents provision on Stage 3 assets
* represents provision on Stage 1, Stage 2 and other receivables (net off amount transferred for provision 
towards NPA)
II -	 Concentration of Advances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Total Advances to twenty largest borrowers
22,081.76
46,882.23
2
Percentage of Advances to twenty largest borrowers to Total 
Advances of the NBFC
3.0%
7.4%
III -	 Concentration of Exposures
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers /customers
31,881.76
60,225.93
2
Percentage of Exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers 
to Total Exposure of the NBFC on borrowers / customers
4.2%
9.4%
IV - 	Concentration of NPAs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Total Exposure to top four NPA accounts
918.62
1,104.15
V -	 Sectorwise NPA (% of NPA to Total Advances in that sector)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Agriculture and allied activities
2.82%
4.25%
2
MSME
10.08%
0.00%
3
Corporate borrowers
-
-
4
Services
5.03%
5.01%
5
Unsecured personal loans
-
-
6
Auto loans
1.94%
2.60%
7
Other personal loans
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Note: Sector wise classification of NPA is compiled by the Management from internal MIS and relied upon by 
the Auditors.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
233
232
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
VI -	Movement of NPAs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Net NPAs to Net Advances (%)
2.46%
2.09%
Movement of NPAs (Gross)
Opening balance
31,269.97
46,224.01
Additions during the year/period
56,324.22
33,734.69
Reductions during the year/period
(53,880.55)
(48,688.73)
Closing balance
33,713.64
31,269.97
Movement of Net NPAs
Opening balance
12,792.58
20,710.96
Additions during the year/period
30,928.91
15,642.80
Reductions during the year/period
(25,735.76)
(23,561.18)
Closing balance
17,985.73
12,792.58
Movement of provisions for NPAs (excluding provisions on 
standard assets)
Opening balance
18,477.39
25,513.05
Provisions made during the year/period
25,395.31
18,091.89
Write-off / write-back of excess provisions
(28,144.79)
(25,127.55)
Closing balance
15,727.91
18,477.39
Note: NPA represents Stage 3 loan assets and classified as Stage 3 as per Ind AS 109.
VII - Details of assignment transactions undertaken during the year: 
(including in terms of Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, 
dated September 24, 2021)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
No. of accounts
8,391
177
2
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts assigned
56,177.95
242.19
3
Aggregate consideration
56,177.95
242.19
4
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
-
-
5
Aggregate gain / loss over net book value
4,361.85
-
VIII (A) - Details of financial assets sold to Asset Reconstruction/Securitisation Companies during the year:
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
No. of accounts
3,850
403
2
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts assigned
33,354.36
1,02,840.53
3
Aggregate consideration
44,000.00
1,10,425.00
4
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
-
-
5
Aggregate gain / (loss) over net book value
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
VIII (B) - Details of stressed loan transferred during the year including in terms of Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars
To Asset Reconstruction Companies 
(ARC)
NPA
SMA
1
Number of accounts
3,362
488
2
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
22,726.19
23,687.71
3
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred 
(in months)
16-19
22-38
4
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
12,927.75
20,426.60
5
Aggregate consideration
21,955.83
22,044.17
6
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
-
-
7
Recovery rating as at the date of transactions
Unrated
Unrated
Carrying value of the SRs held across the various categories of Recovery Ratings assigned to such SRs by the 
credit rating agencies
Recovery Ratings
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
RR1
46,774.92
68,165.01
RR2
43,490.46
-
RR3
-
12,722.57
RR4
11,994.57
-
Unrated
-
-
1,02,259.95
80,887.58
VIII (C) - Details of stressed loans acquired during the year including in terms of Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars
From lenders listed Clause 3
NPA
SMA
1
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans acquired
-
2,106.65
2
Aggregate consideration paid
-
2,106.65
3
Weighted average residual tenor of loans acquired (in months)
-
19
VIII (D) - Details of loans not in default acquired during the year including in terms of Master Direction – 
Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
 	
- Nil
VIII (E) - Details of loans not in default transferred during the year including in terms of Master Direction – 
Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
1
No. of accounts
8,391 
2
Aggregate value of accounts assigned ` in lakhs
56,177.95 
3
Aggregate consideration
56,177.95 
4
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years 
- 
5
Aggregate gain / loss over net book value
4,361.85 
6
Weighted average maturity (No. of Years)
3 
7
Weighted average holding period (months)
8 
8
Retention of beneficial economic interest
10%
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
235
234
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
VIII (F) - Details of STC securitisation transactions
	
(in terms of Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Securitisation of Standard Assets) Directions, 2021 
dated September 24, 2021)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
No of SPVs sponsored by the NBFC for securitisation transactions
15
11
2
Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPVs 
sponsored
1,07,748.88
1,33,114.53
3
Total amount of exposures retained by the NBFC towards the 
MRR as on the date of balance sheet
(I) 	 Off-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
24,024.37
43,364.95
(II) 	 On-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
-
-
Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions
4
Other than MRR
(I) 	 Off-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
a) 	 Exposure to own securitisations
-
-
b) 	 Exposure to third party securitisations
-
-
(II) 	 On-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
a) 	 Exposure to own securitisations
8,041.33
3,246.67
b) 	 Exposure to third party securitisations
-
-
5
Sale Consideration received for the securitised assets and gain/
loss on sale on account of securitisation
a) 	 Sale Consideration received
2,23,618.34
2,57,338.17
b) 	 gain/loss on sale on account of securitisation
-
-
6
Form & quantum of Services Provided:
a) 	 Collection Agent Fees
45.01
85.04
7
Performance of facility provided
I) 	
Credit Enhancement
(a) 	 Amount Paid
24,024.37
43,364.95
(b) 	Repayment Received
-
-
(c) 	 Outstanding Amount
24,024.37
43,364.95
II) 	 Collection Agent fees
(a) 	 Amount Paid
45.01
85.04
(b) 	Repayment Received
(45.01)
(85.04)
(c) 	 Outstanding Amount
-
-
8
Amount and number of additional/top up loan given on the 
same underlying asset
-
-
9
Investor Complaints
(a) 	 Directly/Indirectly received
-
-
(b) 	Complaints Outstanding
-
-
* The Company determines average rate of default on the entire portfolio of the product. Consequently, average 
rate of default for a selected pool under securitisation is not available
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
IX -	Customer Complaints
1)	
Summary information on complaints received by the NBFCs from customers and from the Offices of 
Ombudsman
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Complaints received by the NBFC from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
19
2
2
Number of complaints received during the year
1,654
640
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
1,665
623
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the NBFC
155
80
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
8
19
Maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from Office of 
Ombudsman
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from 
Office of Ombudsman
108
126
5.1. Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the NBFC 
by Office of Ombudsman
108
126
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation/
mediation/advisories issued by Office of Ombudsman
7
13
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards 
by Office of Ombudsman against the NBFC
-
-
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time
-
-
2) 	 Top five grounds of complaints received by the NBFCs from customer
Grounds of complaints 
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
at the 
beginning 
of the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over the 
previous year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, 
number of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Loans & Advances
3
505
301%
4
-
NOC
1
130
88%
-
-
Credit Score
2
267
256%
-
-
Settlement
1
82
74%
-
-
Service issue/Misbehaviour of employee
4
189
142%
1
-
Others
8
481
96%
3
1
Totals
19
1,654
8
1
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Loans & Advances
-
126
5%
3
-
NOC
-
69
-5%
1
-
Credit Score
-
75
14%
2
-
Settlement
-
47
-8%
1
-
Service issue/Misbehaviour of employee
-
78
77%
4
1
Others
2
245
-26%
8
-
Totals
2
640
19
1
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
237
236
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
X - Investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Value of Investments
(i)
Gross Value of Investments
(a) In India
2,63,274.71
1,93,735.76
(b) Outside India
-
-
(ii)
Provision for Depreciation
(a) In India
36,455.26
36,643.38
(b) Outside India
-
-
(iii) Net Value of Investments
(a) In India
2,26,819.45
1,57,092.38
(b) Outside India
-
-
2
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments
(i)
Opening balance
36,643.38
24,576.64
(ii)
Add : Provisions made during the year (net)
-
12,066.74
(iii) Less : Write-off/ write-back of excess provision during the year
(188.12)
-
(iv) Closing balance
36,455.26
36,643.38
XI - Registration obtained from other financial sector regulators :
	
The Company is registered as Corporate Agent with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
(IRDAI) vide Certificate of Registration dated February 21, 2024.
XII - Details of Single Borrower Limit (SBL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL) exceeded by NBFC
	
There are no loans outstanding which exceeds SBL and GBL limit.
XIII - Details of financing of parent Company products : None
XIV - Disclosure of penalties imposed by RBI and other regulators :
	
Current year ` 2.82 lakhs excluding taxes paid to Regular authorities
a) 	 To stock exchanges relating to “Minimum Public Shareholding (MPS) Requirements” - Nil (previous 
year 24.80 lakhs) and others -` 2.33 lakhs (previous year - 11.78 lakhs) excluding taxes
b) 	 To RBI relating to non-compliances observed by the RBI in its statutory inspection - Nil (previous year 
- 13.60 lakhs)
XV -	 Draw down from reserves : None
XVI - Rating assigned by credit rating agencies and migration of ratings during the year/period
Sr. 
No.
Instruments
Credit Rating Agency
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Commercial Paper
CARE
A1+
A1+
CRISIL
A1+
A1+
2
Long Term Facilities
CARE
AA-
AA-
CRISIL
AA-
AA-
3
NCD
CARE
AA-
AA-
CRISIL
AA-
AA-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
XVII (A) - Unsecured Advances against intangible securities :
	
There are no unsecured advances given against intangible securities such as charge over the rights, 
licenses, authority, etc. during the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
XVII (B) - Overseas Assets and off- balance sheet SPVs sponsored (which are required to be consolidated as 
per accounting norms) :
Overseas Assets
The Company does not have any overseas assets as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
Off- Balance sheet SPVs sponsored (which are required to be consolidated as per accounting norms)
The Company does not have any exposure to off balance sheet SPVs sponsored as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024.
XVII (C) - Fraud committed against the Company:
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
No. of cases of fraud reported during the year
6
3
2
Amount involved (` In lakhs)
138.83
47.50
3
Amount recovered (` In lakhs)
22.51
-
4
Amount written off (` In lakhs)*
116.32
47.50
Note: The above information is based on FMR 1 reported to RBI.
* Represents 100% provision made
XVII (D) - Remuneration of non-executive Directors:
Refer note no. 33 for detailed disclosure of related party transactions
XVII (E) - Derivatives:
I) 	
Forward Rate Agreement / Interest Rate Swap (also includes currency interest rate swaps)
	
The Company has not traded in Forward Rate Agreement / Interest Rate Swap during March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024
II) 	 Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
	
The Company has not traded in exchange traded interest rate derivatives during March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024
III) 	 Disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
	
Details for qualitative disclosure are part of material accounting policies as per financial statements. 
(Refer note no. 2.3(a)(i) and note no. 32)
XVII (F) - Divergence in asset classification and provisioning:
	
a) The additional provisioning requirements assessed by RBI exceeds 5 percent of the reported profits 
before tax and impairment loss on financial instruments for financial year 2024-25 : Nil
	
b) The additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds 5 percent of the reported Gross NPAs for financial 
year 2024-25 : Nil
XVII (G) - Net profit or loss for the period, prior period items and changes in accounting policies:
	
There are no prior period items which are impacting Company’s current year profit and loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
239
238
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
XVIII - Disclosures of restructured accounts
Sr. 
No.
Type of restructuring
Under CDR Mechanism /  
SME Debt Restructuring Mechanism
Others*#
Total
Asset Classification
Standard
Sub-
Standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total
Standard
Sub-
Standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total
1
Restructured account as on April 
01, 2024 (Opening Figures)
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
583
360
-
-
943
943
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
8,562.29
5,517.05
-
-
14,079.34
14,079.34
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
430.69
1,531.33
-
-
1,962.02
1,962.02
2
Fresh Restructuring during the year 
-( Net of closure and repayment )
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
Repaid out of opening
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
236
36
-
-
272
272
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
(1,126.53)
(358.94)
-
-
(1,485.47)
(1,485.47)
Provision Thereon **
-
-
-
-
-
(135.63)
84.86
-
-
(50.77)
(50.77)
4
Upgradations to restructured 
standard category during the year
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
13
(13)
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
845.67
(845.67)
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
92.02
(92.02)
-
-
-
-
5
Restructured Standard advances 
which cease to attract higher 
provisioning and/or additional 
risk weight at the end of the FY 
and hence need not be shown as 
restructured standard advances at 
the beginning of the next FY
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
Downgradations of restructured 
accounts during FY 2024-25 
(Slipped to NPA as on March 31, 
2025) - npa
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
(28)
28
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
(319.54)
319.54
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
(10.19)
10.19
-
-
-
-
7
Write-offs of the restructured 
accounts during Financial Year 
2024-25
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
95
-
-
95
95
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
-
(499.35)
-
-
(499.35)
(499.35)
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
-
(337.37)
-
-
(337.37)
(337.37)
8
Closed / Paid-up POS of the 
restructured accounts during 
Financial Year 2024-25
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
331
235
-
-
566
566
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
- (2,589.63)
(1,167.06)
-
- (3,756.69)
(3,756.69)
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
(159.83)
(647.74)
-
-
(807.57)
(807.57)
9
Restructured account as on March 
31, 2025 (Closing Figures)
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
163
47
-
-
210
210
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
5,372.26
2,965.57
-
-
8,337.83
8,337.83
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
217.06
549.25
-
-
766.31
766.31
* Includes restructuring covered under RBI Restructuring Circulars.
# The above amount represents principal outstanding of restructured loans
**Includes impact of changes to models and inputs used
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
XIX - Comparison between Ind AS provisions and IRACP norms
Asset Classification as per RBI 
Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind 
AS 109
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount as 
per Ind AS#
Loss 
Allowances 
(Provisions) 
as required 
under Ind 
AS 109#
Net Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between 
Ind AS 109 
provisions 
and IRACP 
norms
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5) = (3) - (4)
(6) (7) = (4) - (6)
Performing Assets
Standard
Stage 1
6,67,212.61
7,588.33
6,59,624.28
2,962.75
4,625.58
Stage 2
45,470.44
1,428.60
44,041.84
148.03
1,280.57
Subtotal
7,12,683.05
9,016.93
7,03,666.12
3,110.78
5,906.15
Non-Performing Assets (NPA)
Substandard
Stage 3
30,881.85
14,801.48
16,080.37
2,559.43
12,242.05
Subtotal for Substandard
30,881.85
14,801.48
16,080.37
2,559.43
12,242.05
Doubtful - up to 1 year
Stage 3
1,598.88
519.42
1,079.46
219.57
299.85
1 to 3 years
Stage 3
958.33
299.61
658.72
287.78
11.83
More than 3 years
Stage 3
274.58
107.40
167.18
137.29
(29.89)
Subtotal for doubtful
2,831.79
926.43
1,905.36
644.64
281.79
Loss
Stage 3
-
-
-
-
-
Subtotal for NPA
33,713.64
15,727.91
17,985.73
3,204.07
12,523.84
Total
7,46,396.69
24,744.84
7,21,651.85
6,314.85
18,429.99
Other items such as guarantees, 
loan commitments, etc. which 
are in the scope of Ind AS 109 
but not covered under current 
Income Recognition, Asset 
Classification and Provisioning 
(IRACP) norms
Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
Stage 3
-
-
-
-
-
Subtotal
-
-
-
-
-
Total
Stage 1
6,67,212.61
7,588.33
6,59,624.28
2,962.75
4,625.58
Stage 2
45,470.44
1,428.60
44,041.84
148.03
1,280.57
Stage 3
33,713.64
15,727.91
17,985.73
3,204.07
12,523.84
Total
7,46,396.69
24,744.84
7,21,651.85
6,314.85
18,429.99
# includes securitised loans in the scope of Ind-AS 109 and impairment loss allowance thereon.
XX - Liquidity Risk Management
(i)	 Funding Concentration based on significant counterparty (both deposits and borrowings)
Sr. 
No.
Number of Significant Counterparties
Amount
% of Total 
Deposits
% of Total 
Liabilities
1
23
4,43,226.52
N/A
72.00%
(ii)	 Top 20 large deposits - Not applicable
	
The Company being a Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Non-Banking Financial Company 
registered with Reserve Bank of India, does not accept public deposits
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
241
240
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(III)	Top 10 borrowings	
Total Amount1
% of Total Borrowings
3,09,235.56
53.91%
(iV)	Funding concentration based on significant instrument/product
Sr. 
No.
Nature of instrument
Amount
% of Total 
Liabilities
1
Term Loan
1,66,558.67
27.06%
2
Non-Convertible Debentures
3,27,429.73
53.19%
3
Working Capital
27,849.73
4.52%
4
Commercial Papers
51,788.91
8.41%
(V)	 Stock ratios
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Ratios
1
Commercial papers
- as a % of total public funds
9.03%
- as a % of total liabilities
8.41%
- as a % of total assets
5.40%
2
Non-convertible debentures (original maturity of less than one year)
- as a % of total public funds
Nil
- as a % of total liabilities
Nil
- as a % of total assets
Nil
3
Other short-term liabilities
- as a % of total public funds
6.69%
- as a % of total liabilities
6.23%
- as a % of total assets
4.01%
(vi)	Institutional set-up for liquidity risk management
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has instituted the Asset Liability Management Committee to 
monitor and manage liquidity risk inter-alia by way of monitoring the asset liability composition, reviewing 
the liquidity and borrowing programme of the Company, setting-up and monitoring prudential limits on 
negative mismatches w.r.t. liquidity and interest rate and forecasting and analysing ‘what if scenario’ and 
preparation of contingency plans. Further, the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Committee 
as a part of evaluation of the overall risks faced by the Company evaluate the liquidity risk faced by the 
Company.
Footnote -
Amount of Securitisation is excluded from total borrowing, total assets, total liabilities and public funds.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
XXI - Liquidity coverage ratio:
Particulars
Q1  
Financial Year 2024-25
Q2  
Financial Year 2024-25
Q3  
Financial Year 2024-25
Q4  
Financial Year 2024-25
Amounts (Average)
Amounts (Average)
Amounts (Average)
Amounts (Average)
Unweighted
Weighted
Unweighted
Weighted
Unweighted
Weighted
Unweighted
Weighted
(average)1
(average)2
(average)1
(average)2
(average)1
(average)2
(average)1
(average)2
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)3
22,531.01
22,531.01
42,498.00
42,498.00
28,710.38
28,710.38
31,497.61
31,497.61
Cash Outflows
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
Unsecured funding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Secured funding
13,149.80
15,122.27
35,224.91
40,508.64
34,749.25
39,961.64
38,945.83
44,787.70
5
Additional requirements, of which
18,214.56
20,946.74
14,610.09
16,801.61
12,723.99
14,632.59
11,129.67
12,799.12
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
18,214.56
20,946.74
14,610.09
16,801.61
12,723.99
14,632.59
11,129.67
12,799.12
6
Other contractual funding obligations
11,521.53
13,249.76
12,430.30
14,294.84
12,085.64
13,898.48
11,154.05
12,827.16
7
Other contingent funding obligations
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
42,885.89
49,318.77
62,265.30
71,605.09
59,558.88
68,492.71
61,229.55
70,413.98
Cash Inflows
9
Secured Lending
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
25,127.98
18,845.98
27,325.75
20,494.31
28,716.28
21,537.21
28,938.07
21,703.55
11
Other cash inflows
53,064.00
39,798.00
40,790.66
30,593.00
74,557.46
55,918.09
1,13,805.47
85,354.10
12
Total Cash Outflows
78,191.98
58,643.98
68,116.41
51,087.31
1,03,273.74
77,455.30
1,42,743.54
1,07,057.65
Total  
Adjusted Value
Total  
Adjusted Value
Total  
Adjusted Value
Total  
Adjusted Value
13
Total HQLA
22,531.01
42,498.00
28,710.38
31,497.61
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
12,329.69
20,517.79
17,123.18
17,603.49
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
182.74%
207.13%
167.67%
178.93%
1	
Unweighted value calculated as outstanding balances maturing or callable within 30 days (for inflows and outflows).
2 	
Weighted values calculated after the application of respective haircuts (for HQLA) and stress factors on inflow (75%) and outflow (115%).
3	
 The Company, during the year ended March 31, 2025, had maintained average HQLA. HQLA primarily includes cash on hand, bank balances in current account and 
Government securities.
4 	
Company for purpose of computing outflows, have considered: (1) all the contractual debt repayments, and (2) other expected or contracted cash outflows. Inflows 
comprises of: (1) expected receipt from all performing loans, and (2) liquid investment which are unencumbered and have not been considered as part of HQLA.
5 	
In preparation of LCR, the management has made certain estimates/assumptions and compiled the information from internal MIS and records, which has been 
relied upon by the auditors.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
243
242
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
XXII - Sectoral exposure
SL 
No
Sectors
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Total 
Exposure 
(includes 
on balance 
sheet and 
off-balance 
sheet 
exposure)
Gross NPAs Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs 
to total 
exposure in 
that sector
Total 
Exposure 
(includes 
on balance 
sheet and 
off-balance 
sheet 
exposure)
Gross NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs 
to total 
exposure in 
that sector
1
Agriculture and Allied 
Activities
38,442.86
1,083.44
2.82%
20,135.99
856.11
4.25%
2
Industry
- Micro and Small
1,451.98
146.38
10.08%
2,399.08
-
-
- Large
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total (2)
1,451.98
146.38
10.08%
2,399.08
-
-
3
Services
- Transport Operators
5,27,691.79
26,622.66
4.77%
4,72,088.64
24,904.53
4.67%
- Computer Software
-
-
-
102.22
-
-
- Tourism, Hotel and 
Restaurants
5.16
-
-
62.42
-
-
- Professional Services
1,946.50
180.57
0.03%
2,415.17
136.08
0.03%
- Retail Trade
1,345.82
192.87
0.03%
1,638.62
354.46
0.07%
- Commercial Real 
Estate
25,437.42
-
-
54,195.03
-
-
- NBFCs
-
-
-
-
-
-
- Other Services
2,081.06
607.46
0.11%
2,409.35
625.46
0.12%
Total (3)
5,58,507.75
27,603.56
4.94%
5,32,911.45
26,020.53
4.88%
4
Personal Loan
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
Retail Loans
- Vehicle/Auto Loans
1,36,572.06
2,647.53
1.68%
63,124.38
1,641.35
1.87%
- Other Retail loans
21,231.56
2,232.73
1.41%
24,610.81
2,751.98
3.14%
Total (5)
1,57,803.62
4,880.26
3.09%
87,735.19
4,393.33
5.01%
Total (1+2+3+4+5)
7,56,206.21
33,713.64
4.46%
6,43,181.71
31,269.97
4.86%
Note: Sector wise classification of NPA is compiled by the Management from internal MIS and relied upon by 
the Auditors.
XXIII- Intra-group exposures
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Total amount of intra-group exposures
-
-
2
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
-
-
3
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the 
NBFC on borrowers / customers
-
-
-
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
XXIV- Related Party Disclosure
SL  
No
Particulars
Transaction
Financial year
Parent
Subsidiaries
Associates/
Joint 
Ventures
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Others
Total
1
Borrowings
Outstanding as at Year End
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
Deposits
Outstanding as at Year End
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
Placement of 
deposits
Outstanding as at Year End
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Advances
Outstanding as at Year End
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
6,500.00
-
-
-
-
6,500.00
5
Investments
Outstanding as at Year End
2024-25 (CY)
-
45,001.00
-
-
-
-
45,001.00
2023-24 (PY)
-
45,270.58
-
-
-
-
45,270.58
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2024-25 (CY)
-
45,270.58
-
-
-
-
45,270.58
2023-24 (PY)
-
45,271.60
-
-
-
-
45,271.60
6
Purchase of fixed/
other assets
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
Sale of fixed/
other assets
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
Interest paid
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
9
Interest received
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
-
143.85
-
-
-
-
143.85
10
Others
Money Received against 
Share warrants
2024-25 (CY)
20,533.40
-
-
-
-
- 20,533.40
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Upfront Fees
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2023-24 (PY)
1,228.41
-
-
-
-
-
1,228.41
Short-term employee 
benefits
2024-25 (CY)
-
-
-
794.74
-
-
794.74
2023-24 (PY)
-
-
-
359.08
-
-
359.08
Recovery of Expenses
2024-25 (CY)
-
300.00
-
-
-
-
300.00
2023-24 (PY)
-
1,686.53
-
-
-
-
1,686.53
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
245
244
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
XXV - Others
Sr. No.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Amount 
outstanding
Amount overdue
Liabilities side :
(1)
Loans and advances availed by the NBFCs
inclusive of interest accrued thereon but not paid:
(a) 	 Debenture 	: Secured
3,17,349.70
-
	
	
	
: Unsecured
10,080.03
-
(b) 	Deferred Credits
-
-
(c) 	 Term Loans
1,66,558.67
-
(d) 	Inter-corporate loans and borrowing
-
-
(e) 	 Commercial Paper
51,788.91
-
(f) 	 Public Deposits (Refer Note 2 below)
-
-
(g) 	Other Loans
1,45,870.92
-
(2)
Break-up of (1)(f) above (Outstanding public deposits 
inclusive of interest accrued
(a) 	 In the form of Unsecured debentures
-
-
(b) 	In the form of partly secured debentures i.e. debentures 
where there is a shortfall in the value of security
-
-
(c) 	 Other public deposits
-
-
Sr. No.
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
Amount 
outstanding
Assets side :
(3)
Break-up of Loans and Advances including bills receivables (other than those 
included in (4) below ):
(a) 	 Secured
7,37,161.77
(b) 	Unsecured
9,234.92
(4)
Break up of Leased Assets and stock on hire counting towards AFC activities
(i) 	 Lease assets including lease rentals under sundry debtors :
	
(a) 	 Financial lease
-
	
(b) 	Operating lease
-
(ii) 	 Stock on Hire including hire charges under sundry debtors :
	
(a) 	 Assets on hire
-
	
(b) 	Repossessed Assets
-
(iii) 	Other loans counting towards AFC Activities :
-
	
(a) 	 Loans where assets have been repossessed
-
	
(b) 	Loans other than (a) above
-
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Sr. No.
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
Amount 
outstanding
Assets side :
(5)
Break-up of Investments :
Current Investments :
1. 	
Quoted :
	
(i) 	 Shares : (a) Equity
-
	
	
              (b) Preference
-
	
(ii) 	 Debenture and Bonds
10,160.59
	
(iii)	 Units of mutual funds
-
	
(iv) 	Government Securities
19,886.27
	
(v) 	Others (Please specify)
-
2. 	 Unquoted :
	
(i) 	 Shares: (a) Equity
-
                           (b) Preference
-
	
(ii) 	 Debentures and Bonds
-
	
(iii) 	Units of mutual funds
49,511.64
	
(iv) 	Government Securities
-
	
(v) 	Others (Please specify)
-
Long Term investments :
1. 	
Quoted :
	
(i) 	 Shares : (a) Equity
-
	
                     (b) Preference
-
	
(ii) 	 Debentures and Bonds
-
	
(iii) 	Units of mutual funds
-
	
(iv) 	Government Securities
-
	
(v) 	Others (Please specify)
-
2. 	 Unquoted :
	
(i) Shares: (a) Equity
45,001.00
	
                 (b) Preference
-
	
(ii) 	 Debentures and Bonds
-
	
(iii) 	Units of mutual funds
-
	
(iv) 	Government Securities
-
	
(v) 	Others: Securities receipts
1,02,259.95
 (6) Borrower group-wise classification of assets, financed as in (3) and (4) above :
Category
Amount (Net of provisions)
Secured
Unsecured
Total
1. 	
Related Parties
	
(a) 	 Subsidiaries
-
-
-
	
(b) 	Companies in the same group
-
-
-
	
(c) 	 Other related parties
-
-
-
2. 	 Other than related parties
7,13,021.82
8,630.03
7,21,651.85
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
247
246
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(7)  Investor group-wise classification of all investments (current and long term)
Category
Market Value / 
Break up or fair 
value or NAV
Book Value 
(Net of 
Provisions)
in shares and securities (both quoted and unquoted):
1. 	
Related Parties
	
(a)	 Subsidiaries
45,001.00
45,001.00
	
(b)	 Companies in the same group
-
-
	
(c)	 Other related parties
-
-
2. 	 Other than related parties
1,81,818.45
1,81,818.45
 (8) Other information
Particulars
Amount
(i) 	 Gross Non-Performing Assets
	
(a) 	 Related parties
-
	
(b) 	Other than related parties
33,713.64
(ii) 	Net Non-Performing Assets
	
(a) 	 Related parties
-
	
(b) 	Other than related parties
17,985.73
(iii) 	Assets acquired in satisfaction of debt
1,300.00
NOTE 47	The Company does not have any unhedged foreign currency exposure for the year ended March 31, 
2025
NOTE 48	Figures for the previous year have been regrouped, and / or reclassified wherever considered necessary 
to make them comparable to the current year presentation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Note: NPA represent Stage 3 loan assets and classified as Stage 3 as per Ind AS 109
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO 
THE 
MEMBERS 
OF 
INDOSTAR 
CAPITAL 
FINANCE LIMITED 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
OPINION 
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated 
Financial Statements of IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding 
Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company, 
and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the 
Group”), which comprise the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Consolidated Financial Statements”). 
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
and based on consideration of reports of other 
auditors on separate financial statements and on 
the other financial information of subsidiaries, the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give 
the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give 
a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 
of the Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (“Ind AS”), 
the RBI Guidelines and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of their consolidated 
state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2025, of 
consolidated profit (including other comprehensive 
income), consolidated changes in equity and its 
consolidated cash flows for the year then ended. 
BASIS FOR OPINION 
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are 
further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the 
Group in accordance with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in terms of the Code of Ethics 
issued by Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(“ICAI”), and the relevant provisions of the Act and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained and on 
consideration of audit reports of other auditors 
referred to in the “Other Matters” section below, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
KEY AUDIT MATTERS 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide 
a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matters described below to be the 
key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our 
audit
1
Impairment of loans including Expected
Credit Losses (“ECL”):
As per Ind AS 109 – Financial Instruments (“Ind 
AS 109”) requires the Company to provide for 
impairment of its financial assets using ECL 
approach involving an estimation of probability 
of loss on such financial assets, considering 
reasonable and supportable information about 
past events, current conditions and forecasts of 
future economic conditions which could impact 
the credit quality of the Company’s financial assets. 
Our audit procedures in respect of this area included:
Process understanding and control testing:
•	
Read the Company’s Board approved ECL policy 
and material accounting policy information 
for estimation of ECL on financial assets and 
evaluated the appropriateness of the same with 
the principles of Ind AS 109;
•	
Performed end-to-end process walkthroughs to 
identify the controls used in the impairment loss 
allowance processes;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
249
248
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our 
audit
2
Information Technology (“IT”) systems and 
controls impacting financial controls
The Company key financial accounting and 
reporting processes are highly dependent on 
information systems including automated controls 
in systems, such that there exists a risk that gaps 
in the IT control environment could result in the 
financial accounting and reporting records being 
misstated.
Amongst its multiple IT systems, we scoped in 
systems that are key for overall financial reporting.
Appropriate IT general controls and application 
controls are required to ensure that such IT 
systems are able to process the data, as required, 
completely, accurately and consistently for reliable 
financial reporting.
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as 
a key audit matter considering the high level of 
automation, significant number of systems being 
used by Management and the complexity of the 
IT architecture and its impact on overall financial 
reporting process and regulatory expectation on 
automation.
Key IT audit procedures performed included the 
following, but not limited to:
•	
For testing the IT general controls, application 
controls and IT dependent manual controls, we 
involved IT specialists as part of the audit. The 
team also assisted in testing the accuracy of 
the information produced by the Company IT 
systems;
•	
Obtained 
a 
comprehensive 
understanding 
of IT applications landscape implemented 
at the Company. It was followed by process 
understanding, mapping of applications to the 
same and understanding financial risks posed 
by people-process and technology;
•	
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design 
and operating effectiveness of key controls 
operating 
over 
user 
access 
management 
(which 
includes 
user 
access 
provisioning, 
de-provisioning, 
access 
review, 
password 
configuration review, segregation of duties 
and privilege access), change management 
(which include change release in production 
environment are compliant to the defined 
procedures and segregation of environment 
is ensured), program development (which 
include review of data migration activity), 
computer operations (which includes testing 
of key controls pertaining to backup, Batch 
processing 
(including 
interface 
testing), 
incident management and data centre security), 
System interface controls. This included testing 
that requests for access to systems were 
appropriately logged, reviewed, and authorized;
•	
In addition to the above, the design and 
operating effectiveness of certain automated 
controls, that were considered as key internal 
system controls over financial reporting were 
tested. Using various techniques such as inquiry, 
review of documentation / record / reports, 
observation, and re-performance. We also tested 
few controls using negative testing technique; 
and
•	
Tested compensating controls and performed 
alternate 
procedures, 
where 
necessary. 
In 
addition, understood where relevant changes 
made to the IT landscape during the audit 
period.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our 
audit
The estimation of impairment loss allowance on 
loan assets involves significant judgement and 
estimates, which are subject to uncertainty, and 
involves 
applying 
appropriate 
measurement 
principles in case of loss events.
ECL is calculated using the percentage of probability 
of default (“PD”), loss given default(“LGD”) and 
exposure at default (“EAD”) for each of the 
stages of loan portfolio. Significant management 
judgment and assumptions involved in measuring 
ECL is required with respect to:
•	
Segmentation of loan book in buckets based 
on common risk characteristics;
•	
Staging of loans and in particular determining 
the criteria, which includes qualitative factors 
for identifying a significant increase in credit 
risk (i.e. Stage 2) and credit-impaired (i.e. 
Stage 3);
•	
Factoring in future macro-economic and 
industry specific estimates and forecasts;
•	
Past experience and forecast data on customer 
behaviour on repayments and;
•	
varied statistical modelling techniques to 
determine probability of default, loss given 
default and exposure at default basis, the 
default history of loans, subsequent recoveries 
made 
and 
other 
relevant 
factors 
using 
probability weighted scenarios.
Considering the significance of the above matter 
to the Financial Statements and since the matter 
required significant attention to test the calculation 
of ECL, we identified this as a key audit matter for 
current year audit.
•	
Tested the design and the operating effectiveness 
of relevant internal controls, including the 
IT controls relevant to the impairment loss 
allowance process;
•	
Verified the completeness and accuracy of 
the EAD and the classification thereof into 
stages consistent with the definitions applied 
in accordance with the policy approved by the 
Board of Directors; and
•	
Checked the appropriateness of information 
used in the estimation of the PD and LGD for the 
different stages depending on the nature of the 
portfolio.
Performed the following substantive procedures on 
sample of loan assets:
•	
Tested appropriateness of staging of borrowers 
based on days past due (“DPD”) and other loss 
indicators;
•	
Tested the factual accuracy of information such 
as period of default, ratings (wherever applicable) 
and other related information used in estimating 
the PD;
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of LGD estimates by 
comparing actual recoveries post the loan asset 
becoming credit impaired and other applicable 
assumptions included in LGD computation;
•	
Evaluated the methodology used to determine 
macroeconomic overlays and adjustments to the 
output of the ECL model;
•	
Tested the completeness of loans included in 
the ECL calculations as of March 31, 2025 by 
reconciling such data with the balances as per 
loan book register;
•	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness 
of disclosures in compliance with the Ind AS 
107 in relation to ECL especially in relation to 
judgements used in estimation of ECL provision;
•	
Along with the assistance of the auditor’s expert, 
verified the appropriateness of methodology and 
models used by the Company and reasonableness 
of the assumptions used within the computation 
process to estimate the impairment provision;
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of the judgement 
involved in management overlays that form part 
of the impairment provision, and the related 
approvals; and
•	
Evaluated the adequacy of presentation and 
disclosures in relation to impairment loss 
allowance in the standalone financial statements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
251
250
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
2
Evaluation of Company’s Information Technology 
(IT) systems and Controls over Financial Reporting
The information system is a critical component 
of 
Company’s 
operations, 
enabling 
efficient 
processing 
of 
transactions, 
safeguarding 
of 
information, 
and 
supporting 
decision-making. 
The financial accounting and reporting systems of 
the Company are also fundamentally reliant on IT 
systems and IT controls. 
As such, it is important for us to evaluate the 
effectiveness of information system controls to 
ensure the correctness, integrity, availability, and 
confidentiality of data. We identified ‘IT systems 
and controls’ as key audit matter because of the 
pervasive nature of IT environment and the scale 
and complexity of the IT architecture.
Audit approach/procedures include the following:
•	
Evaluated the extent to which the controls are 
designed and implemented to mitigate the risk 
of material misstatement in financial reporting.
•	
Obtained an understanding of the IT control 
environment and IT policies during the audit 
period.
•	
Testing IT general controls related to User, 
Change 
Management 
Controls, 
Information 
Security Controls, Log management and Data 
backup. 
•	
Assessment 
and 
identification 
of 
key 
IT 
applications including those identified by the 
management for audit trail (audit log) further 
verifying, testing, and reviewing the design and 
operating effectiveness of the IT system based 
on reports and other financial and non-financial 
information generated from the system on a test 
check basis.
RESPONSIBILITIES 
OF 
MANAGEMENT 
AND 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these Consolidated Financial Statements in terms 
of the requirements of the Act that give a true and 
fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance, consolidated 
changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the 
Group including in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 
133 of the Act and RBI Guidelines. The respective 
Management and Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; the selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
INFORMATION OTHER THAN THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITOR’S REPORT 
THEREON
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the Annual Report but does 
not include the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report 
is expected to be made available to us after the date 
of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
does not cover the other information and we will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it becomes 
available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. 
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance under SA 720 ‘The Auditor’s 
responsibilities Relating to Other Information’. 
The auditors of Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (formerly known as “IndoStar Home Finance Private 
Limited”), vide their audit report dated April 28, 2025, have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial 
statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matters were included in the audit 
report.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
1
Impairment of financial assets as at balance 
sheet date (expected credit losses):
Ind AS 109 requires the Company to provide for 
impairment of its loan receivables (designated 
at amortised cost and fair value through other 
comprehensive income) using the expected credit 
loss (ECL) approach. 
ECL 
involves 
an 
estimation 
of 
probability-
weighted loss on financial instruments over their 
life, considering reasonable and supportable 
information about past events, current conditions, 
and forecasts of future economic conditions which 
could impact the credit quality of the Company’s 
loans and advances. 
In the process, a significant degree of judgement 
has been applied by the management for:
1.	
Staging of loans (i.e. classification in ‘significant 
increase in credit risk’ (“SICR”) and ‘default’ 
categories);
2.	
Estimating the behavioural life of the product. 
3.	
Data inputs in relation to ECL model.
4.	
Determining 
macro-economic 
factors 
impacting credit quality of receivables;
5.	
Determination of loan book segmentation, 
probability of defaults, loss given defaults and 
exposure at default.
Audit approach/procedures included the following:
•	
Read and assessed the Company’s accounting 
policies for impairment of financial assets 
and their compliance with Ind AS 109 and the 
governance framework approved by the Board 
of Directors.
•	
Read and assessed the Company’s policy with 
respect 
to 
one-time 
restructuring 
offered 
to customers pursuant to the “Resolution 
Framework for COVID-19-related Stress” issued 
by RBI on August 6, 2020, and May 05, 2021. 
•	
Performed walkthroughs to identify the key 
systems, applications and controls used in the 
ECL processes.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of the management 
estimates by understanding the process of 
ECL estimation and related assumptions and 
tested the controls around data extraction and 
validation.
•	
Performed test of details over calculations of ECL 
computation, in relation to the completeness and 
accuracy of data. Assessed the floor/minimum 
rates of provisioning applied by the Company for 
loan products with inadequate historical defaults.
•	
Assessed the criteria for staging of loans based 
on their past-due status to check compliance 
with requirement of Ind AS 109. Tested a sample 
of performing (stage 1) loans to assess whether 
any SICR or loss indicators were present requiring 
them to be classified under higher stages.
•	
Assessed the additional considerations applied 
by the management for staging of loans as SICR 
or default categories in view of Company’s policy 
on one time restructuring.
•	
Obtained written representations from the 
management on the reasonableness of the 
significant assumptions used in computation of 
ECL provision.
•	
Assessed the disclosures included in the Ind-
AS financial statements with respect to such 
allowance/estimate are in accordance with 
the requirements of Ind AS 109 and Ind AS 107 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
253
252
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2025 and are therefore, the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
OTHER MATTER: 
We did not audit the financial statements of two 
subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total 
assets of Rs. 2,94,718 Lakhs (before Consolidation 
adjustments) as at March 31, 2025, total revenues of 
Rs. 40,932 Lakhs (before Consolidation adjustments) 
and net cash inflows amounting to Rs. 1,208 Lakhs 
(before Consolidation adjustments) for the year 
ended on that date, as considered in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. These financial statements 
have been audited by other auditors whose reports 
have been furnished to us by the Management 
and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, 
and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 
143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the 
other auditors. 
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS 
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based 
on our audit and on the consideration of the 
reports of the other auditors on the Separate 
Financial Statements of the subsidiaries, referred 
to in the Other Matters section above we report, 
to the extent applicable, that: 
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to the 
best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Group 
so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books, except for the matters stated 
in paragraph 2(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g).
c.	
The 
Consolidated 
Balance 
Sheet, 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
including other comprehensive income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity and the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report 
are in agreement with the relevant books 
of account maintained for the purpose of 
preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements comply with the Indian 
Accounting 
Standards 
specified 
under 
Section 133 of the Act. 
e.	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and the reports of the 
statutory auditors of its subsidiaries, none of 
the directors of the Group are disqualified 
as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed 
as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of 
the Act. 
f.	
The reservation relating to maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in paragraph 2(b) 
above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) 
and paragraph 2(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g).
g.	
With respect to the adequacy of internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Group, its and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate report in 
“Annexure A”.
h.	
With respect to the other matters to 
be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our 
opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to 
us: 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements by the Management and Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
the respective Management and Board of Directors of 
the companies included in the Group are responsible 
for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of each company. 
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF 
THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about 
whether 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with Standards on Auditing (“SAs”) 
will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error 
and are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statement, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher 
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management and Board of Directors.
•	
Conclude 
on 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
management and Board of Director’s use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a 
material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Company to cease to continue as a 
going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the Consolidated Financial Statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the 
entities or business activities within the Group to 
express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of 
financial statements of such entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which 
we are the independent auditors. For the other 
entities included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance 
of the audits carried out by them. We remain 
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Holding Company and such other entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
255
254
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
of account for the year ended March 31, 2025, which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit 
log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software, and further, during the course of audit of the holding company and for above 
referred subsidiaries we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered 
with. Additionally, the audit trail of prior year has been preserved by the holding Company and 
above referred subsidiaries as per the statutory requirements for record retention as explained in 
Note 43.2 (k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Instances where audit trail feature has not enabled at the database level 
in respect of certain accounting software as explained in Note 43.2 (k) 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, to log any direct data changes 
and in case of one software, the audit trail feature at the database level 
was not enabled from April 01, 2024 to June 30, 2024.
In respect of  
Holding Company 
Instances of non-preservation of audit trail at database level in case 
of certain accounting software as explained in Note 43.2 (k) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and in case of one accounting 
software on from April 01, 2024 to June 30, 2024.
In respect of  
Holding Company 
Instance of a software for maintaining treasury and investment function, 
as explained in Note 43.2 (l) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
where the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility was not 
enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes.
In respect of  
one subsidiary
Instances of non-preservation of audit trail at database level in case of a 
software for maintaining treasury and investment function, as explained 
in Note 43.2 (l) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In respect of  
one subsidiary
2.	
In our opinion, according to information, explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Holding 
Company, to its directors is within the limits laid prescribed under Section 197 of the Act and the rules 
thereunder except in case of two subsidiaries, as the provisions of the aforesaid section is not applicable to 
private companies.
3.	
According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the CARO reports issued by 
us for the Holding Company and on consideration of CARO reports issued by the statutory auditors of 
subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group to which reporting under 
CARO is applicable, we report that there are no Qualifications or adverse remarks.
For M S K A & Associates 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Tushar Kurani 
Partner 
Mumbai	
Membership Number: 118580 
April 29, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118580BMOHVZ2313
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
disclose 
the 
impact 
of 
pending 
litigations on the consolidated financial 
position of the Group – Refer Note 36 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
ii.	
The Group did not have any material 
foreseeable 
losses 
on 
long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.	
There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the 
Investor 
Education 
and 
Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company, and its 
subsidiaries.
	
	
iv.	
a)	
The 
respective 
Managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India 
whose 
financial statements have been 
audited 
under 
the 
Act 
have 
represented to us and the other 
auditors 
of 
such 
subsidiaries 
respectively that, to the best of 
their knowledge and belief as 
disclosed in Note 43.2 (i) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, 
no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of 
funds) by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities with the 
understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, as on the 
date of this audit report, that such 
parties shall, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Holding Company or any 
of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
b)	
The 
respective 
Managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India 
whose 
financial statements have been 
audited 
under 
the 
Act 
have 
represented to us and the other 
auditors 
of 
such 
subsidiaries 
respectively that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief as disclosed 
in Note 43.2 (i) , no funds have been 
received by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries from 
any 
person(s) 
or 
entity(ies), 
including foreign entities with the 
understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, as on the 
date of this audit report, that 
the Holding Company or any of 
such subsidiaries shall, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other 
person(s) or entity(ies) identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
c)	
Based on the audit procedures 
that 
have 
been 
considered 
reasonable 
and 
appropriate 
in 
the circumstances performed by 
us and that performed by the 
auditors of the subsidiaries which 
are companies incorporated in 
India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, 
and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us 
by the Management of the Holding 
company in this regard nothing 
has come to our or other auditors’ 
notice that has caused us or the 
other auditors to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as provided 
under (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material mis-statement.
v.	
In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations given 
to us, the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries has neither declared nor 
paid any dividend during the year.
vi.	
Based 
on 
our 
examination 
which 
included test checks, and based on 
the other auditor’s reports of its 
subsidiaries incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, except for the instance 
mentioned below, the holding Company 
and its subsidiaries incorporated in 
India have used accounting software 
for maintaining their respective books 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
257
256
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Meaning 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls 
With 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A Company’s internal financial control with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation 
of Consolidated Financial Statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
With 
Reference 
to 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods 
are subject to the risk that the internal financial control 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as it 
relates to two subsidiaries, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding 
reports of the auditors of the branches and the 
auditors 
of 
such 
companies 
incorporated 
in 
India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this 
matter.
For M S K A & Associates 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
Tushar Kurani 
Partner 
Mumbai	
Membership Number: 118580 
April 29, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118580BMOHVZ2313
ANNEXURE “A”
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OF INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
[Referred to in paragraph 1(g) under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the 
Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
Members of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2025] 
REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
UNDER CLAUSE (I) OF SUB-SECTION 3 OF SECTION 
143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE ACT”)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company as of and for 
the year ended March 31, 2025, we have audited the 
internal financial controls reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements of IndoStar Financial Capital 
Finance Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Holding Company”) which includes the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting of the 
Holding Company’s and its subsidiaries (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
“the Group”), which are companies incorporated in 
India, as of that date. 
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the Group, 
have, in all material respects, an adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements were operating effectively as at March 
31, 2025, based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
criteria established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
Management and Board of Director’s Responsibility 
for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Management and the Board of 
Directors of the Group, are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal control with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements criteria established by the 
respective companies considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note issued by ICAI. These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds 
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of 
reliable financial information, as required under the 
Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed 
under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. 
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements 
and 
their 
operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the 
design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the 
other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in 
the Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
259
258
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
23
Interest income
1,19,678.75
91,354.08
Fees and commission income
11,963.66
5,123.21
Net gain on fair value changes
3,244.16
2,147.32
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
5,529.92
11,668.14
Total revenue from operations
1,40,416.49
1,10,292.75
Other income
24
549.39
418.58
Total income
1,40,965.88
1,10,711.33
EXPENSES
Finance cost
25
74,083.99
57,970.75
Impairment on financial instruments
26
13,752.34
8,306.69
Employee benefit expenses
27
29,771.41
20,921.38
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
28
3,061.80
2,766.37
Other expenses
29
15,042.19
13,721.78
Total expenses
1,35,711.73
1,03,686.97
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations
5,254.15
7,024.36
Tax expense:
30
1. 	
Current tax
5.69
4.10
2. 	
Tax of earlier years
0.12
0.08
3. 	
Deferred tax expenses
-
-
Total tax expenses
5.81
4.18
Profit/(loss) after tax from continuing operations
5,248.34
7,020.18
Discontinued operations
14
Profit before tax (a)
9,086.15
5,939.63
Tax expenses (b)
2,282.42
1,376.80
Profit after tax from discontinued operation (a-b)
6,803.73
4,562.83
Profit after tax
12,052.07
11,583.01
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
- 	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans
(126.35)
(53.22)
- 	
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
31.81
13.40
(94.54)
(39.82)
Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss
- 	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
20.00
11.47
- 	
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to 
profit or loss
(5.05)
(2.89)
14.95
8.58
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
(79.59)
(31.24)
Total comprehensive income for the year
11,972.48
11,551.77
Earnings per equity share
31
(Equity Share of face value of ` 10 each)
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share (`)
3.86
5.16
Diluted earnings per share (`)
3.73
5.16
Discontinued operations:
Basic earnings per share (`)
5.00
3.35
Diluted earnings per share (`)
4.84
3.35
Total Earning
Basic earnings per share (`)
8.86
8.51
Diluted earnings per share (`)
8.57
8.51
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 44
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
I. 	
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
3
9,604.87
61,390.42
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
4
32,639.06
34,919.59
Loans
5
7,21,651.85
7,80,983.89
Investments
6
1,81,818.45
1,11,821.80
Other financial assets
7
12,102.59
38,306.04
9,57,816.82
10,27,421.74
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net)
8
1,138.23
8,336.99
Deferred tax assets (net)
9
31,674.65
31,651.53
Property, plant and equipment
10
5,955.24
6,800.67
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
11
1,300.00
1,300.00
Goodwill
12
30,018.69
30,018.69
Other intangible assets
12
539.00
1,289.99
Other non-financial assets
13
2,922.89
5,250.27
Non - current assets held for sale
14
2,94,224.04
-
3,67,772.74
84,648.14
TOTAL ASSETS
13,25,589.56
11,12,069.88
II. 	
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
15
(i) 	 total outstanding to micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
6.23
124.16
(ii) 	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
1.82
19.51
Debt securities
16
3,79,218.64
3,34,103.91
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
17
3,12,429.59
4,23,061.12
Other financial liabilities
18
40,299.48
28,242.96
7,31,955.76
7,85,551.66
Non-financial liabilities
Provisions
19
901.31
670.75
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
9
-
1,360.32
Other non-financial liabilities
20
745.03
965.35
Liabilities for assets held for sale
14
2,28,445.14
-
2,30,091.48
2,996.42
TOTAL LIABILITIES
9,62,047.24
7,88,548.08
EQUITY
Equity share capital
21
13,609.74
13,607.93
Other equity
22
3,49,932.58
3,09,913.87
TOTAL EQUITY
3,63,542.32
3,23,521.80
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
13,25,589.56
11,12,069.88
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 44
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
261
260
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
C	
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
	
Proceeds from issue of shares (including securities premium 
and net off of share issue expenses)
25,282.42
-
	
Proceeds from bank borrowings
2,83,399.66
1,90,316.60
	
Repayments towards bank borrowings
(2,47,604.83)
(2,86,266.42)
	
Proceeds from issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures
1,15,558.54
2,45,500.00
	
Repayments towards Non-Convertible Debentures
(1,14,300.00)
(29,790.00)
	
Proceeds from Commercial Papers
1,32,000.00
55,300.00
	
Repayment of Commercial Papers
(86,300.00)
(47,500.00)
	
Payment of lease liabilities
(1,060.52)
(821.73)
	
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (C)
1,06,975.27
1,26,738.45
	
Net Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  
(A) + (B) + (C)
(29,643.01)
22,284.14
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
39,247.88
16,963.74
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year
9,604.87
39,247.88
	
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents with the balance 
sheet
	
Cash on hand
533.99
400.27
	
Balances with banks
	
- in current accounts
1,668.73
12,443.34
	
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months
7,402.15
26,404.27
	
Total
9,604.87
39,247.88
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
Net cash flow from discontinued operation (Refer note 14)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities (A)
(65,037.64)
(48,922.45)
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (B)
(3,822.82)
864.26
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (C)
70,130.99
69,190.35
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A) + (B) + (C)
1,270.53
21,132.16
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
22,142.54
1,010.38
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year
23,413.07
22,142.54
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year (continuing and 
discontinued operations)
33,017.94
61,390.42
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 44
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
A	
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
	
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations
5,254.15
7,024.36
	
Adjustments for :
	
Interest income on financial assets
(1,19,678.75)
(91,354.08)
	
Finance costs
74,083.99
58,114.60
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3,061.80
2,766.37
	
(Profit) / Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
(4.40)
22.55
	
Impairment on financial instruments
13,752.34
8,306.69
	
Provision for employee benefits
351.55
157.31
	
Employee share based payment expense
2,203.70
812.34
	
Net gain on fair value changes
(3,244.16)
(2,147.32)
	
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
(5,529.92)
(11,668.14)
	
(29,749.70)
(27,965.32)
	
Interest income realised on financial assets
1,15,399.63
90,764.50
	
Finance costs paid
(69,788.94)
(61,536.79)
	
Cash generated from operating activities before working 
capital changes
15,860.99
1,262.39
	
Adjustments:
	
(Increase)/Decrease in loans and advances
(1,75,031.30)
(1,62,945.19)
	
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets
26,831.58
(156.81)
	
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-financial assets
1,412.60
(1,100.99)
	
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payable
(122.27)
(604.93)
	
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities
18,519.15
(5,954.05)
	
Increase/(Decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
20.19
(226.97)
	
Cash generated from / (used in) operating activities
(1,12,509.06)
(1,69,726.55)
	
Taxes (paid) / refund
6,395.87
(2,166.88)
	
Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities (A)
(1,06,113.19)
(1,71,893.43)
B	
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
	
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
(2,155.81)
(840.00)
	
Sale of property, plant and equipment
6.79
7.77
	
Purchase of intangible assets
(245.14)
(27.20)
	
Proceeds/(Investment) in bank deposits of maturity greater 
than 3 months (net)
(3,463.28)
(8,832.28)
	
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at FVTPL 
(net)
(29,545.44)
58,086.00
	
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at FVOCI 
(net)
(14,471.43)
(4,020.66)
	
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at 
amortised cost (net)
19,369.22
23,065.49
	
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (B)
(30,505.09)
67,439.12
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
263
262
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(b) Other equity
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and surplus
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrant
Total
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Statutory 
Reserves 
U/s 45-1C
Statutory 
Reserve 
U/s 
Section 
29C
Capital 
Reserve
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
Debt 
instruments 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
(ii) Balance at April 01, 2023
-
2,92,207.63
29,650.80
2,293.19
0.43
2,074.82
2,683.84 (31,347.41)
(12.52)
-
2,97,550.78
Profit after tax for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11,583.01
-
-
11,583.01
Debt instruments through 
other comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8.58
-
8.58
Gain/loss on re-measurement 
of defined benefit plans
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(39.82)
-
-
(39.82)
Total comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11,543.19
8.58
-
11,551.77
Proceeds from issue of shares 
(net) 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transferred from Retained 
earnings
-
-
1,432.27
881.90
-
-
-
(2,314.17)
-
-
-
Share application money 
received
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Share based payment 
expense
-
-
-
-
-
811.32
-
-
-
-
811.32
Share based payment 
expense - discontinued 
operations
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transfer from ESOP reserves
-
-
-
-
-
(763.40)
763.40
-
-
-
-
Money received against share 
warrant
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Share issue expenses
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Balance at March 31, 2024
-
2,92,207.63
31,083.07
3,175.09
0.43
2,122.74 3,447.24 (22,118.39)
(3.94)
-
3,09,913.87
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (SOCIE)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman &  
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer &  
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 44
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (SOCIE)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(a) Equity share capital of face value of ` 10/- each
Balance at the 
beginning of the 
current reporting 
period
Changes in Equity 
Share Capital due 
to prior period 
errors
Restated balance 
at the beginning 
of the current 
reporting period
Changes in Equity 
Share Capital 
during the current 
year
Balance at the 
end of the current 
reporting period
As at March 31, 2025
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
1.81
13,609.74
As at March 31, 2024
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
(b) Other equity
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and surplus
Debt 
instruments 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrant
Total
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Statutory 
Reserves 
U/s 45-1C
Statutory 
Reserve 
U/s 
Section 
29C
Capital 
Reserve
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
(i) 	Balance at April 01, 2024
-
2,92,207.63 31,083.07
3,175.09
0.43
2,122.74 3,447.24
(22,118.39)
(3.94)
-
3,09,913.87
Profit after tax for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12,052.07
-
-
12,052.07
Debt instruments through 
other comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
14.95
-
14.95
Gain/loss on re-measurement 
of defined benefit plans
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(94.54)
-
-
(94.54)
Total comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11,957.53
14.95
-
11,972.48
Proceeds from issue of shares 
(net)
-
30.43
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
30.43
Transferred from Retained 
earnings
-
-
1,051.82
1,355.29
-
-
-
(2,407.11)
-
-
-
Share application money 
received
10.95
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
25,533.40
25,544.35
Share based payment 
expense
-
-
-
-
-
2,203.70
-
-
-
-
2,203.70
Share based payment 
expense - discontinued 
operations
-
-
-
-
-
550.97
-
-
-
550.97
Transfer from ESOP reserves
-
12.81
-
-
-
(391.88)
379.07
-
-
-
-
Money received against share 
warrant
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Share issue expenses
-
(283.22)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(283.22)
Balance at March 31, 2025
10.95
2,91,967.65
32,134.89
4,530.38
0.43
4,485.53
3,826.31 (12,567.97)
11.01 25,533.40
3,49,932.58
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
265
264
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
consolidated financial statements from the date 
the Group gains control until the date the Group 
ceases to control the subsidiary.
	
Consolidated financial statements are prepared 
using uniform accounting policies for like 
transactions 
and 
other 
events 
in 
similar 
circumstances. The financial statements of all 
entities used for the purpose of consolidation 
are drawn up to same reporting date as that of 
the Company, i.e., year ended on March 31, 2025.
	
Consolidation procedure:
(a)	 Combine like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
of the parent with those of its subsidiaries. 
For this purpose, income and expenses of 
the subsidiary are based on the amounts of 
the assets and liabilities recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements at the 
acquisition date.
(b)	 Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of 
the parent’s investment in each subsidiary 
and the parent’s portion of equity of each 
subsidiary. Business combinations policy 
explains how to account for any related 
goodwill.
(c) 	 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between 
entities of the Group (profits or losses 
resulting 
from 
intragroup 
transactions 
that are recognised in assets, such as 
inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated 
in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an 
impairment that requires recognition in 
the consolidated financial statements. Ind 
AS 12 Income Taxes applies to temporary 
differences that arise from the elimination of 
profits and losses resulting from intragroup 
transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of OCI are 
attributed to the equity holders of the parent of 
the Group and to the non-controlling interests, 
even if this results in the non-controlling 
interests having a deficit balance. A change in 
the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without 
loss of control, is accounted for as an equity 
transaction.
2.2	 Presentation of financial statements
	
The Balance Sheet and the Statement of Profit 
and Loss are prepared and presented in the 
format prescribed in the Division III to Schedule 
III to the Act applicable for Non Banking Financial 
Companies (“NBFC”). The Statement of Cash 
Flows has been prepared and presented as per 
the requirements of Ind AS 7 “Statement of Cash 
Flows”. The disclosure requirements with respect 
to items in the Balance Sheet and Statement of 
Profit and Loss, as prescribed in the Division 
III to Schedule III to the Act, are presented 
by way of notes forming part of the financial 
statements along with the other notes required 
to be disclosed under the notified accounting 
Standards and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
generally reported gross in the balance sheet. 
They are only offset and reported net when, 
in addition to having an unconditional legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts 
without being contingent on a future event, the 
parties also intend to settle on a net basis in all 
of the following circumstances:
	
- 	
the normal course of business;
	
- 	
the event of default;
- 	
the event of insolvency of bankruptcy of the 
Group or its counterparties.
2.3	 Material Accounting Policies
a)	
Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities can 
be termed as financial instruments.
	
Financial instruments are recognised when 
the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual terms of the instruments.
(i)	 Classification of Financial Instruments
	
The 
Group 
classifies 
its 
financial 
assets into the following measurement 
categories:
1. 	
Financial assets to be measured at 
amortised cost
2. 	 Financial assets to be measured 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
other 
comprehensive income
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
1	
CORPORATE INFORMATION
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (‘the Company’ 
or ‘ICFL’) was incorporated on July 21, 2009 and 
is domiciled in India. The Company is registered 
with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as a 
Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Non-
Banking Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI) vide 
Certificate No. N-13.02109. The Company has been 
classified as Middle Layer as per Master Direction- 
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial 
Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 
2023 dated 19 October 2023, as amended. The 
Company is also registered as Corporate Agent 
with the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority (IRDAI) wide Certificate of Registration 
dated February 21, 2024. The Company together 
with its subsidiaries (collectively, the Group), is 
primarily engaged in lending activities.
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited is engaged in 
business of lending to used and new Commercial 
Vehicles, Corporates, SME businesses and Micro 
lap. The Company has two subsidiaries, IndoStar 
Asset Advisory Private Limited which is primarily 
engaged in business of investment advisory and 
asset management services and Niwas Housing 
Finance Private Limited (Formerly known as 
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited) which is 
engaged in housing finance business.
2	
BASIS 
OF 
PREPARATION, 
BASIS 
FOR 
CONSOLIDATION AND MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
2.1a	Statement 
of 
compliance 
with 
Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’)
	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended from time to time 
and presented in the format prescribed in the 
Division III to Schedule III to the Act applicable 
for Non Banking Financial Companies (“NBFC”). 
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the application of fair value 
measurements required or allowed by relevant 
accounting standards. Accounting policies have 
been consistently applied to all periods presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
	
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the management is satisfied 
that the Group shall be able to continue its 
business for the foreseeable future. In making this 
assessment, the management has considered a 
wide range of information relating to present and 
future conditions, including future projections of 
profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
2.1b	Basis for Consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at March 31, 2025. The Company 
consolidates a subsidiary when it controls it. 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, 
or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over 
the investee.
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority 
of voting rights result in control. To support this 
presumption and when the Group has less than 
a majority of the voting or similar rights of an 
investee, the Group considers all relevant facts 
and circumstances in assessing whether it has 
power over an investee, including:
-	
The contractual arrangement with the other 
vote holders of the investee
-	
Rights 
arising 
from 
other 
contractual 
arrangements
-	
The Group’s voting rights and potential 
voting rights
-	
The size of the Group’s holding of voting 
rights relative to the size and dispersion 
of the holdings of the other voting rights 
holders.
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls 
an investee if facts and circumstances indicate 
that there are changes to one or more of the 
three elements of control. Consolidation of a 
subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control 
over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group 
loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or 
disposed of during the year are included in the 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
267
266
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
After initial measurement, such 
financial assets are subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised 
cost 
using the effective interest rate 
(EIR) method. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account 
any 
discount 
or 
premium 
on 
acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The 
EIR amortisation is included in 
interest income in the statement 
of profit or loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognised in 
the statement of profit or loss.
(b)	 Financial assets at fair value 
through 
other 
comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI)
	
Financial assets are measured 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
other 
comprehensive income if these 
financial assets are held within a 
business model whose objective 
is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows that give rise 
on specified dates to sole payments 
of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding and 
by selling financial assets.
(c)	 Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
Financial 
assets 
at 
fair 
value 
through profit or loss are those 
that are either held for trading 
and have been either designated 
by 
management 
upon 
initial 
recognition or are mandatorily 
required 
to 
be 
measured 
at 
fair value under Ind AS 109. 
Management only designates an 
instrument at FVTPL upon initial 
recognition 
when 
one 
of 
the 
following criteria are met (such 
designation is determined on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis):
	
The 
designation 
eliminates, 
or 
significantly reduces, the inconsistent 
treatment that would otherwise 
arise from measuring the assets 
or recognising gains or losses on 
them on a different basis.
	
Financial assets at FVTPL are 
recorded in the balance sheet at 
fair value. Changes in fair value are 
recorded in profit and loss.
(d)	 Debt 
securities 
and 
other 
borrowed funds
	
After initial measurement, debt 
issued and other borrowed funds 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised cost. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account 
any 
discount 
or 
premium 
on 
issue funds, and costs that are 
an integral part of the EIR. A 
compound 
financial 
instrument 
which contains both a liability and 
an equity component is separated 
at the issue date.
(e) 	Financial guarantees
	
Financial guarantees are initially 
recognised 
in 
the 
financial 
statements (within ‘Provisions’) 
at fair value, being the premium/
deemed 
premium 
received. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the Group’s liability under each 
guarantee is measured at the higher 
of the amount initially recognised 
less 
cumulative 
amortisation 
recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss. The premium/
deemed premium is recognised in 
the statement of Profit and Loss on 
a straight line basis over the life of 
the guarantee.
(f) 	 Undrawn loan commitments
	
Undrawn loan commitments are 
commitments under which, over 
the duration of the commitment, 
the Group is required to provide 
a loan with pre-specified terms 
to the customer. Undrawn loan 
commitments are in the scope of 
the ECL requirements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
3. 	 Financial assets to be measured 
at fair value through profit or loss 
account
	
The 
classification 
depends 
on 
the 
contractual terms of the financial assets’ 
cash flows and the Group’s business model 
for managing financial assets.
	
The Group classifies its financial liabilities 
at amortised cost unless it has designated 
liabilities at fair value through the profit 
and loss account or is required to measure 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL) such as derivative liabilities. Financial 
liabilities, other than loan commitments and 
financial guarantees, are measured at FVTPL 
when they are derivative instruments or the 
fair value designation is applied.
(ii) 	Assessment of business model and 
cash flows for financial assets		
Business model assessment
	
The Group determines its business 
model at the level that best reflects 
how it manages groups of financial 
assets to achieve its business objective. 
The Group’s business model determines 
whether the cash flows will be generated 
by collecting contractual cash flows, 
selling financial assets or by both.
	
The Group’s business model is assessed 
at portfolio level and not at instrument 
level, and is based on observable factors 
such as:
(i)	 How the performance of the 
business model and the financial 
assets held within that business 
model are evaluated and reported 
to the entity’s key management 
personnel;
(ii)	 The risks that affect the performance 
of the business model and, in 
particular, the way those risks are 
managed; and
(iii)	 The expected frequency, value and 
timing of sales are also important 
aspects of the Group’s assessment. 
The business model assessment 
is based on reasonably expected 
scenarios without taking ‘worst 
case’ or ‘stress case’ scenarios into 
account.
	
Solely 
payment 
of 
principal 
and 
interest (SPPI) test
	
Subsequent to the assessment to 
the relevant business model of the 
financial assets, the Group assesses the 
contractual terms of financial assets to 
identify whether the cash flow realised 
are towards solely payment of principal 
and interest.
	
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is 
defined as the fair value of the financial 
asset at initial recognition and may 
change over the life of the financial 
asset. The most significant elements of 
interest within a lending arrangement 
are typically the consideration for the 
time value of money and credit risk.
(iii)	Initial 
measurement 
of 
financial 
instruments
	
The classification of financial instruments 
at initial recognition depends on their 
contractual terms and the business 
model for managing the instruments. 
Financial 
instruments 
are 
initially 
measured at their fair value.
(iv)	Classification of Financial Instruments 
as per business model and SPPI test
(a)	 Loans and Debt instruments at 
amortised cost
	
A ‘loan or debt instrument’ is 
measured at the amortised cost if 
both the following conditions are 
met:
i)	
The asset is held within a 
business model whose objective 
is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
ii)	
The contractual terms of the 
asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
269
268
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
and there is no realistic prospect 
of 
recovery. 
Financial 
assets 
written off may still be subject 
to enforcement activities under 
the Group’s recovery procedures, 
taking into account legal advice 
where appropriate. Any recoveries 
made are recognised in statement 
of profit and loss.
(vii)	Derecognition of Financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is derecognised 
when the obligation under the liability 
is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Where an existing financial liability is 
replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as 
a derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference between the carrying 
value of the original financial liability 
and the consideration paid is recognised 
in statement of profit or loss.
b)	 Fair Value Measurement
	
On initial recognition, all the financial 
instruments are measured at fair value. 
For subsequent measurement, the Group 
measures certain categories of financial 
instruments at fair value on each balance 
sheet date. Fair value is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement 
date.
	
The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
i. 	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
ii.	
In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
asset or liability
	
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that 
are appropriate in the circumstances and 
for which sufficient data are available to 
measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
	
In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified 
based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, 
as summarised below:
	
Fair values are categorised into different 
levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the 
inputs used in the valuation techniques as 
follows.
	
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities;
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices 
included in Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly or 
indirectly;
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data.
	
If the inputs used to measure the fair value 
of an asset or a liability fall into different 
levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the 
fair value measurement is categorised in its 
entirety in the same level of the fair value 
hierarchy as the lowest level input that is 
significant to the entire measurement.
	
The Group recognises transfers between 
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end 
of the reporting period during which the 
change has occurred, if any.
c)	
Property plant and equipments
	
Recognition and measurement
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) is 
recognised when it is probable that the 
future economic benefits associated with it 
will flow to the Company and the cost can 
be measured reliably.
	
Property, 
plant 
and 
equipment 
(PPE) 
are 
stated 
at 
cost 
less 
accumulated 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(v)	 Reclassification of financial assets and 
liabilities
	
The Group does not reclassify its 
financial assets subsequent to their 
initial recognition, apart from the 
exceptional circumstances in which 
the Group acquires, disposes of, or 
terminates a business line.
(vi)	Derecognition of financial assets in 
following circumstances
(a)	 Derecognition of financial assets 
due to substantial modification of 
terms and conditions
	
The Group derecognises a financial 
asset, such as a loan to a customer, 
when the terms and conditions have 
been renegotiated to the extent 
that, substantially it becomes a new 
loan with the difference recognised 
as a derecognition gain or loss, to 
the extent that an impairment loss 
has not already been recorded. The 
newly recognised loans are classified 
as Stage 1 for ECL measurement 
purposes, unless the new loan is 
deemed to be credit-impaired at 
the origination date.
	
If the modification does not result 
in cash flows that are substantially 
different, the modification does 
not result in derecognition. Based 
on the change in cash flows 
discounted at the original EIR, 
the Group records a modification 
gain or loss, to the extent that an 
impairment loss has not already 
been recorded.
(b)	 Derecognition of financial assets 
other than due to substantial 
modification
	
Financial assets
	
A financial asset or a part of 
financial asset is derecognised 
when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial asset 
have expired. The Group also 
derecognises the financial asset 
if it has transferred the financial 
asset and the transfer qualifies for 
derecognition.
	
The Group has transferred the 
financial asset if, and only if, either:
- 	
The Group has transferred its 
contractual rights to receive 
cash flows from the financial 
asset; or
- 	
It retains the rights to the cash 
flows, but has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received 
cash flows.
	
A 
transfer 
only 
qualifies 
for 
derecognition if either:
- 	
The Group has transferred 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset; or
- 	
The 
Group 
has 
neither 
transferred 
nor 
retained 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset
	
The Group considers control to 
be transferred if and only if, the 
transferee has the practical ability 
to sell the asset in its entirety to an 
unrelated third party and is able 
to exercise that ability unilaterally 
and without imposing additional 
restrictions on the transfer.
	
When 
the 
Group 
has 
neither 
transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards and has 
retained control of the asset, the 
asset continues to be recognised 
only to the extent of the Group’s 
continuing involvement, in which 
case, the Group also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred 
asset and the associated liability 
are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations 
that the Group has retained.
	
Write off
	
The Group writes off a financial 
asset when there is information 
indicating that the counterparty 
is in severe financial difficulty 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
271
270
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
acquired 
separately 
are 
measured 
on 
initial recognition at cost. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value as at 
the date of acquisition
	
Amortisation
	
Intangible assets are amortised using the 
straight line method over a period of 3 years, 
which is the management’s estimate of its 
useful life. The amortisation period and the 
amortisation method are reviewed at least 
as at each financial year end. If the expected 
useful life of the asset is significantly different 
from previous estimates, the amortisation 
period is changed accordingly.
	
Gains or losses arising from the retirement 
or disposal of an intangible asset are 
determined as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and recognised as 
income or expense in the statement of Profit 
and Loss.
e)	
Business 
Combination 
and 
goodwill 
thereon
	
Business combinations other than under 
common control are accounted for using 
the acquisition method. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured at the value which is 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, 
measured at acquisition date fair value and 
the amount of any non-controlling interests 
in the acquiree. The identifiable assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed are 
recognised at their fair values, as on date of 
acquisition. Any contingent consideration to 
be transferred by the acquirer is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date.
	
Measurement
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, 
being the excess of the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for non-controlling interests, 
and any previous interest held, over the net 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. In case the excess is on account 
of bargain purchase, the gain is recognised 
directly in equity as capital reserve. When 
the transaction is of nature other than 
bargain purchase, then the gain is recognised 
in OCI and accumulated in equity as capital 
reserve.
f)	
Impairment
	
(i) 	 Financial Assets
(a)	 Expected 
Credit 
Loss 
(ECL) 
principles for Financial assets
	
The 
Group 
records 
allowance 
for expected credit losses for all 
loans, other debt financial assets 
not held at FVTPL, undrawn loan 
commitments 
(referred 
to 
as 
‘financial instruments’).
	
For the computation of ECL on the 
financial instruments, the Group 
categories its financial instruments 
as mentioned below:
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there 
has not been a significant increase 
in credit risk since initial recognition 
or that has low credit risk at the 
reporting date and that are not 
credit impaired upon origination 
are classified under this stage. 
The Group classifies all advances 
upto 30 days overdue under this 
category. Stage 1 loans also include 
facilities where the credit risk has 
improved and the loan has been 
reclassified from Stage 2.
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified 
as Stage 2 when the amount is due 
for more than 30 days but less than 
90 days. All exposures where there 
has been a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition 
but are not credit impaired are 
classified under this stage.
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed 
as credit impaired when one or 
more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future 
cash flows of that asset have 
occurred. Exposures where the 
amount remains due for 90 days or 
more are considered as to be stage 
3 assets.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
depreciation and impairment losses, if any. 
Cost comprises the purchase price and any 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to 
its working condition for its intended use. 
Borrowing costs relating to acquisition of 
assets which takes substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use are 
also included to the extent they relate to the 
year till such assets are ready to be put to 
use. Any trade discounts and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price.
	
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of 
such assets are measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset and are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
Subsequent expenditure
	
Subsequent costs are included in the 
assets carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate only if it is 
probable that the future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the 
Group and that the cost of the item can be 
reliably measured. The carrying amount of 
any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognised when replaced. All 
other repair and maintenance expenses are 
charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss 
during the reporting period in which they 
are incurred.
	
Depreciation
	
Depreciation 
is 
provided 
on 
Straight 
Line Method (‘SLM’), which reflects the 
management’s estimate of the useful life of 
the respective assets. The estimated useful 
life used to provide depreciation are as 
follows:
Particulars
Estimated 
useful life 
by the 
Group
Useful 
life as 
prescribed 
by 
Schedule 
II of the 
Companies 
Act 2013
Computers
3 years
3 years
Office Equipment
5 years
5 years
Particulars
Estimated 
useful life 
by the 
Group
Useful 
life as 
prescribed 
by 
Schedule 
II of the 
Companies 
Act 2013
Office Equipment 
- mobiles
2 years
5 years
Furniture and 
fixtures
5 years
10 years
Servers and 
networks
5 years
6 years
	
Property, 
plant 
and 
equipment 
items 
individually costing less than ` 5,000 are 
depreciated fully in the year of purchase.
	
Leasehold improvement is amortised on 
Straight Line Method over the lease term, 
subject to a maximum of 60 months.
	
Useful life of assets different from prescribed 
in Schedule II of the Act has been estimated 
by management and supported by technical 
assessment.
	
The right-of-use assets are depreciated from 
the date of commencement of the lease on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
Depreciation on assets acquired/sold during 
the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis to 
the statement of Profit and Loss till the date 
of sale.
	
The useful lives and the method of 
depreciation 
of 
property, 
plant 
and 
equipment are reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate. Changes in the expected 
useful life are accounted for by changing 
the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, and treated as changes in 
accounting estimates.
d)	 Intangible assets
	
Recognition and measurement
	
An intangible asset is recognised only 
when its cost can be measured reliably 
and it is probable that the expected future 
economic benefits that are attributable to 
it will flow to the Group. Intangible assets 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
273
272
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Lifetime ECL is applied on stage 2 
and stage 3 assets.
	
The Group computes the ECL 
allowance on either individual basis 
or collective basis, depending on the 
nature of the underlying portfolio 
of financial instruments. The Group 
has grouped its loan portfolio 
into Corporate loans, SME loans, 
Commercial vehicle loans, Micro 
lap loans and Home loans.
	
ECL on Trade Receivables:
	
The Group applies the simplified 
approach for computation of ECL 
on trade receivables as allowed as 
per Ind AS 109. Thus, the Group is 
recognising lifetime ECL for trade 
receivables.
	
Significant increase in Credit Risk
	
The Group monitors all financial 
assets and financial guarantee 
contracts 
that 
are 
subject 
to 
the impairment requirements to 
assess whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk 
since initial recognition. If there has 
been a significant increase in credit 
risk, the Group will measure the 
loss allowance based on lifetime 
rather than 12-month ECL.
	
In assessing whether the credit 
risk on a financial instrument has 
increased significantly since initial 
recognition, the Group compares 
the risk of a default occurring on the 
financial instrument at the reporting 
date based on the remaining 
maturity of the instrument with 
the risk of a default occurring that 
was anticipated for the remaining 
maturity at the current reporting 
date when the financial instrument 
was first recognised. In making this 
assessment, the Group considers 
both quantitative and qualitative 
information that is reasonable and 
supportable, including historical 
experience and forward-looking 
information that is available without 
undue cost or effort, based on the 
Group’s historical experience and 
expert credit assessment.
	
Given that a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition is 
a relative measure, a given change 
in absolute terms in the PD will 
be more significant for a financial 
instrument with a lower initial 
PD than compared to a financial 
instrument with a higher PD.
	
As a back-stop when loan asset 
not being a loan becomes 30 days 
past due, the Group considers that 
a significant increase in credit risk 
has occurred and the asset is in 
stage 2 of the impairment model, 
i.e. the loss allowance is measured 
as the lifetime ECL in respect of all 
retail assets.
	
For the purpose of counting of 
days past due for the assessment 
of significant increase in credit 
risk, the special dispensations to 
any class of assets in accordance 
with COVID19 Regulatory Package 
notified by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI) has been applied by the 
Group.
	
Modification and derecognition of 
financial assets
	
A modification of a financial asset 
occurs when the contractual terms 
governing the cash flows of a 
financial asset are renegotiated 
or otherwise modified between 
initial recognition and maturity of 
the financial asset. A modification 
affects the amount and/or timing 
of the contractual cash flows either 
immediately or at a future date. In 
addition, the introduction of new 
covenants or adjustment of existing 
covenants of an existing loan may 
constitute a modification even if 
these new or adjusted covenants 
do not yet affect the cash flows 
immediately but may affect the 
cash flows depending on whether 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
The 
Group 
has 
established 
a 
policy to perform an assessment, 
at the end of each reporting 
period, of whether a financial 
instrument’s 
credit 
risk 
has 
increased 
significantly 
since 
initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default 
occurring over the remaining life 
of the financial instrument. The 
Group undertakes the classification 
of exposures within the aforesaid 
stages at borrower level.
(b)	 Definition of default
	
A default on a financial asset is 
when the counterparty fails to make 
the contractual payments within 
90 days of when they fall due. 
Accordingly, the financial assets 
shall be classified as Stage 3, if on 
the reporting date, it has been 90 
days and above past due. Non-
payment on another obligation 
of the same customer is also 
considered as a Stage 3. In addition, 
Company shall also classify those 
accounts as default which meets 
the criteria as per the RBI circular 
RBI/2021-2022/125 
DOR.STR.
REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 
dated 
November 12, 2021.
(c) 	Calculation of ECL:
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit 
losses (i.e. present value of all 
cash shortfalls) over the expected 
life of the financial instruments. 
Cash shortfalls are the difference 
between the cash flows that the 
entity is entitled to receive on 
account of contract and the cash 
flows that the entity expects to 
receive.
	
The 
mechanics 
of 
the 
ECL 
calculations are outlined below and 
the key elements are as follows:
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The 
Exposure at Default is the amount 
the Group is entitled to receive 
as on reporting date including 
repayments due for principal and 
interest, whether scheduled by 
contract or otherwise, expected 
drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
Probability of Default (PD) : 
The Probability of Default is an 
estimate of the likelihood of default 
of the exposure over a given time 
horizon. A default may only happen 
at a certain time over the assessed 
period, if the facility has not been 
previously derecognised and is still 
in the portfolio.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The 
Loss Given Default is an estimate of 
the loss arising in the case where 
a default occurs at a given time. It 
is based on the difference between 
the contractual cash flows due 
and those that the lender would 
expect to receive, including from 
the realisation of any collateral.
	
The ECL allowance is applied 
on 
the 
financial 
instruments 
depending upon the classification 
of the financial instruments as 
per the credit risk involved. ECL 
allowance is computed on the 
below mentioned basis:
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is 
the portion of Lifetime ECL that 
represents the ECL that results 
from default events on a financial 
instrument that are possible within 
the 12 months after the reporting 
date. 12-month ECL is applied on 
stage 1 assets.
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for 
credit losses expected to arise 
over the life of the asset in cases 
of credit impaired loans and in 
case of financial instruments where 
there has been significant increase 
in credit risk since origination. 
Lifetime ECL is the expected credit 
loss resulting from all possible 
default events over the expected 
life 
of 
a 
financial 
instrument. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
275
274
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
For 
financial 
assets 
modified, 
where modification did not result 
in 
derecognition, 
the 
estimate 
of PD reflects the Company’s 
ability to collect the modified 
cash flows taking into account the 
Company’s previous experience of 
similar forbearance action, as well 
as various behavioural indicators, 
including the borrower’s payment 
performance against the modified 
contractual terms. If the credit 
risk remains significantly higher 
than what was expected at initial 
recognition the loss allowance will 
continue to be measured at an 
amount equal to lifetime ECL. The 
loss allowance on forborne loans 
will generally only be measured 
based on 12-month ECL when 
there is evidence of the borrower’s 
improved 
repayment 
behaviour 
following modification leading to a 
reversal of the previous significant 
increase in credit risk.
	
Where a modification does not lead 
to derecognition, the Company 
calculates the modification gain/
loss comparing the gross carrying 
amount 
before 
and 
after 
the 
modification (excluding the ECL 
allowance). Then the Company 
measures ECL for the modified 
asset, where the expected cash 
flows arising from the modified 
financial asset are included in 
calculating 
the 
expected 
cash 
shortfalls from the original asset.
	
Presentation of ECL allowance in 
the Balance Sheet
	
Loss 
allowances 
for 
ECL 
are 
presented in the statement of 
financial position as follows:
• 	
for financial assets measured 
at 
amortised 
cost: 
as 
a 
deduction 
from 
the 
gross 
carrying amount of the assets;
• 	
for debt instruments measured 
at FVTOCI: no loss allowance 
is recognised in Balance Sheet 
as the carrying amount is at 
fair value.
(ii) 	Financial Liabilities
(a)	 Loan commitments
	
Undrawn loan commitments are 
commitments under which, over 
the duration of the commitment, 
the Group is required to provide 
a loan with pre-specified terms 
to the customer. Undrawn loan 
commitments are in the scope of 
the ECL requirements.
(b) 	Financial guarantee contracts
	
The 
Group’s 
liability 
under 
financial guarantee is measured 
at the higher of the amount 
initially recognised less cumulative 
amortisation 
recognised 
in 
the 
statement of profit and loss, and the 
ECL provision. For this purpose, the 
Group estimates ECLs by applying 
a credit conversion factor. The 
ECLs related to financial guarantee 
contracts are recognised within 
Provisions. Currently, the Group has 
not recognised any ECL in respect 
of financial guarantee based on 
estimate of expected cash flows.
(iii)	Non-financial assets
(a)	 Intangible assets
	
The carrying amount of assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet 
date if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/
external factors. An impairment 
loss 
is 
recognised 
when 
the 
carrying amount of an individual 
asset 
exceeds 
its 
recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is 
the higher of fair value of the asset 
less cost of its disposal and value in 
use.
(b)	 Goodwill
	
Goodwill is recorded at the cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses 
in the previous years. Goodwill on 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
the covenant is or is not met (e.g. 
a change to the increase in the 
interest rate that arises when 
covenants are breached).
	
The Company renegotiates loans 
to customers in financial difficulty 
to 
maximise 
collection 
and 
minimise the risk of default. A loan 
forbearance is granted in cases 
where 
although 
the 
borrower 
made all reasonable efforts to 
pay under the original contractual 
terms, there is a high risk of default 
or default has already happened 
and the borrower is expected to 
be able to meet the revised terms. 
The revised terms in most of the 
cases include an extension of the 
maturity of the loan, changes to the 
timing of the cash flows of the loan 
(principal and interest repayment), 
reduction in the amount of cash 
flows due (principal and interest 
forgiveness) and amendments to 
covenants.
	
When a financial asset is modified 
the Company assesses whether this 
modification results in derecognition. 
In accordance with the Company’s 
policy a modification results in 
derecognition when it gives rise 
to substantially different terms. To 
determine if the modified terms 
are substantially different from 
the original contractual terms the 
Company considers the following:
•	
Qualitative factors, such as 
contractual cash flows after 
modification are no longer 
SPPI,
• 	
Change in currency or change 
of counterparty,
• 	
The extent of change in interest 
rates, maturity, covenants.
	
If this does not clearly indicate a 
substantial modification, then:
(a)	 In the case where the financial 
asset 
is 
derecognised 
the 
loss allowance for ECL is 
remeasured at the date of 
derecognition to determine 
the net carrying amount of 
the asset at that date. The 
difference 
between 
this 
revised 
carrying 
amount 
and the fair value of the new 
financial asset with the new 
terms will lead to a gain or loss 
on derecognition. The new 
financial asset will have a loss 
allowance 
measured 
based 
on 12-month ECL except in 
the rare occasions where the 
new loan is considered to be 
originated-credit 
impaired. 
This applies only in the case 
where the fair value of the 
new loan is recognised at 
a significant discount to its 
revised par amount because 
there remains a high risk of 
default which has not been 
reduced by the modification. 
The Company monitors credit 
risk of modified financial assets 
by evaluating qualitative and 
quantitative information, such 
as if the borrower is in past due 
status under the new terms.
(b) When the contractual terms of 
a financial asset are modified 
and the modification does 
not result in derecognition, 
the Company determines if 
the financial asset’s credit risk 
has 
increased 
significantly 
since initial recognition by 
comparing:
•	
the 
remaining 
lifetime 
PD 
estimated based on data at 
initial 
recognition 
and 
the 
original contractual terms; with
• 	
the remaining lifetime PD at 
the reporting date based on 
the modified terms.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
277
276
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(b) 	Dividend income
	
Dividend income is recognised when 
the 
Group’s 
right 
to 
receive 
the 
payment is established, it is probable 
that the economic benefits associated 
with the dividend will flow to the Group 
and the amount of the dividend can be 
measured reliably.
(c) 	Fees and commission income
	
Fees and commission income are 
recognised 
as 
income 
when 
the 
performance obligation as per the 
contract with customer is fulfilled 
and when the right to receive the 
payment against the services has been 
established.
(d) 	Origination fees
	
Origination fees, which the Group has 
received/recovered at time of granting 
of a loan, is considered as a component 
for computation of the effective rate 
of interest (EIR) for the purpose of 
computing interest income.
(e) 	Management Fees:
	
Management 
fees 
and 
other 
fees 
are recognised as income when the 
performance obligation as per the 
contract with customer is fulfilled 
and when the right to receive the 
payment against the services has been 
established.
(f) 	 Assignment income
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
assignment transactions with complete 
transfer of risks and rewards without 
any retention of residual interest, gain 
arising on such assignment transactions 
is recorded upfront in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss and the corresponding 
asset is derecognised from the Balance 
Sheet immediately upon execution 
of 
such 
transactions. 
Further 
the 
transfer of financial assets qualifies for 
derecognition in its entirety, the whole 
of the interest spread at its present 
value (discounted over the life of the 
asset) is recognised on the date of 
derecognition itself as excess interest 
spread and correspondingly recognised 
as profit on derecognition of financial 
asset.
	
The residual expected life of the pool of 
asset is assessed annually.
(g) 	Securitisation transactions :
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case 
of securitisation transactions, the Group 
retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of a transferred 
financial asset, the Group continues to 
recognise the financial asset and also 
recognises a collateralised borrowing 
for the proceeds received.
(h) 	Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
	
Any differences between the fair values 
of financial assets classified as fair value 
through the profit or loss, held by the 
Group on the balance sheet date is 
recognised as an unrealised gain or loss 
as a gain or expense respectively.
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on 
sale of financial instruments measured 
at 
FVTPL 
and 
debt 
instruments 
measured at FVOCI is recognised in net 
gain / loss on fair value changes.
(i) 	 Sourcing and servicing fee
	
The revenue from the contract as 
a 
service 
provider 
(sourcing 
and 
collection agent) on behalf of customer, 
is recognised upfront for services 
rendered as sourcing agent and on 
straight line basis over the loan tenure 
for services in the nature of collection 
and performance agent. The financial 
guarantee provided under the service 
contract is recognised at fair value on 
sourcing and is amortised over the 
period of contract with subsequent 
measurement 
at 
higher 
of 
the 
unamortised value as per Ind AS 115 or 
expected credit losses as per Ind AS 
109.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
acquisition is tested for impairment 
where the same allocated to each 
of the Group’s cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit 
from the combination, irrespective 
of whether other assets or liabilities 
of the acquiree are assigned to 
those units.
	
A cash generating unit (CGU) to 
which goodwill has been allocated 
is tested for impairment on annual 
basis or whenever required in case 
where the Group is of the opinion 
that goodwill may be impaired. 
If 
the 
recoverable 
amount 
of 
the cash generating unit is less 
than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is allocated first 
to reduce the carrying amount 
of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro rata based on the 
carrying amount of each asset in 
the unit. Any impairment loss for 
goodwill is recognised in profit or 
loss. Such impairment loss already 
recognised for goodwill is not 
reversed in subsequent periods.
g)	 Recognition of income
	
Revenue generated form the business 
transactions (other than for those items 
to which Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments 
are applicable) is measured at fair value 
of the consideration to be received or 
receivable by the Group. Ind AS 115 Revenue 
from contracts with customers outlines a 
single comprehensive model of accounting 
for revenue arising from contracts with 
customers.
	
The 
Group 
recognises 
revenue 
from 
contracts with customers based on a five 
step model as set out in Ind AS 115:
	
Step 1:	
Identify contract(s) with a customer;
	
Step 2:	 Identify performance obligations in 
the contract;
	
Step 3:	 Determine the transaction price;
	
Step 4:	 Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract;
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the 
Group satisfies a performance obligation.
(a) 	Recognition of interest income
	
Interest income is recorded using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method 
for all financial instruments measured 
at amortised cost. The EIR is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected 
life of the financial instrument or, when 
appropriate, a shorter period, to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset.
	
The EIR for the amortised cost asset is 
calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition, 
origination fees and transaction costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR.
	
If expectations regarding the cash 
flows on the financial asset are revised 
for reasons other than credit risk, the 
adjustment is booked as a positive or 
negative adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the asset in the balance sheet 
with an increase or reduction in interest 
income. The adjustment is subsequently 
amortised through Interest income in 
the statement of profit and loss.
	
The Group calculates interest income by 
applying the EIR to the gross carrying 
amount of financial assets other than 
credit-impaired assets. When a financial 
asset becomes credit-impaired and is, 
therefore, regarded as ‘Stage 3’, the 
Group recognised the interest income 
by applying the effective interest 
rate to the net amortised cost of the 
financial asset. If the financial status of 
the financial asset improves and it no 
longer remains to be a credit-impaired, 
the Group revises the application of 
interest income on such financial asset 
to calculating interest income on a 
gross basis.
	
Interest income on all trading assets and 
financial assets mandatorily required to 
be measured at FVTPL is recognised 
using the contractual interest rate in net 
gain on fair value changes.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
279
278
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
the arrangement is dependent on the use 
of a specific asset or assets or whether the 
arrangement conveys a right to use the 
asset.
	
Group as a lessee
	
Leases that do not transfer to the Group 
substantially all of the risks and benefits 
incidental to ownership of the leased 
items are treated as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised 
as an expense in the statement of profit 
and loss on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term, unless the increase is in line 
with expected general inflation, in which 
case lease payments are recognised based 
on contractual terms. Contingent rental 
payable is recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they it is incurred.
	
Critical accounting estimate and judgement
1. 	
Determination of lease term
	
Ind AS 116 Leases requires lessee to 
determine the lease term as the non-
cancellable period of a lease adjusted 
with any option to extend or terminate 
the lease, if the use of such option is 
reasonably certain. The Group makes 
assessment on the expected lease term 
on lease by lease basis and thereby 
assesses 
whether 
it 
is 
reasonably 
certain that any options to extend or 
terminate the contract will be exercised. 
In evaluating the lease term, the 
Group considers factors such as any 
significant 
leasehold 
improvements 
undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of lease 
and the importance of the underlying 
to the Group’s operations taking into 
account the location of the underlying 
asset and the availability of the suitable 
alternatives. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that 
the lease term reflects the current 
economic circumstances.
2. 	 Discount Rate
	
The discount rate is generally based 
on the incremental borrowing rate 
specific to the lease being evaluated 
or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
l)	
Foreign currency translation
	
Functional and presentational currency
	
The financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees which is also functional 
currency of the Group and the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which 
the Group operates.
m)	 Provisions
	
A provision is recognised when the Group 
has a present obligation as a result of past 
event; it is probable that outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate can be 
made. Provisions are not discounted to its 
present value and are determined based 
on best estimate required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date. These 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and adjusted to reflect the current best 
estimates.
n)	
Taxes
(i) 	 Current tax
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the 
current and prior years are measured 
at 
the 
amount 
expected 
to 
be 
recovered from, or paid to, the taxation 
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws 
used to compute the amount are those 
that are enacted, or substantively 
enacted, by the reporting date in the 
countries where the Group operates 
and generates taxable income.
	
Current income tax relating to items 
recognised outside profit or loss is 
recognised outside profit or loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in 
equity). Current tax items are recognised 
in 
correlation 
to 
the 
underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly 
in 
equity. 
Management 
periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in 
which applicable tax regulations are 
subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions where appropriate.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
h)	
Finance Costs
	
The Group recognises interest expense on 
the borrowings as per EIR methodology 
which is calculated by considering any 
ancillary costs incurred and any premium 
payable on its maturity.
i) 
Retirement and other employee benefits
(i) 	 Defined Contribution Plan
	
Provident Fund
	
All the employees of the Group are 
entitled to receive benefits under the 
Provident Fund, a defined contribution 
plan in which both the employee and 
the Group contribute monthly at a 
stipulated rate. The Group has no liability 
for future Provident Fund benefits 
other than its annual contribution and 
recognises such contributions as an 
expense, when an employee renders 
the related service.
(ii) 	Defined Benefit schemes
(a) 	Gratuity
	
The Group provides for the gratuity, 
a defined benefit retirement plan 
covering all employees. The plan 
provides for lump sum payments 
to employees upon death while in 
employment or on separation from 
employment after serving for the 
stipulated year mentioned under 
‘The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’. 
The Group accounts for liability 
of future gratuity benefits based 
on an external actuarial valuation 
on projected unit credit method 
carried out for assessing liability as 
at the reporting date.
	
Net interest recognised in proﬁt 
or loss is calculated by applying 
the discount rate used to measure 
the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to 
the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 
or asset. The actual return on 
the plan assets above or below 
the discount rate is recognised 
as part of re-measurement of net 
deﬁned liability or asset through 
other 
comprehensive 
income. 
Remeasurements, comprising of 
actuarial gains and losses, the 
effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest 
on the net defined benefit liability 
and the return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts included in 
net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability), are recognised 
immediately in the balance sheet 
with a corresponding debit or 
credit to retained earnings through 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
(‘OCI’) in the period in which they 
occur. Remeasurements are not 
reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods.
(b) 	Compensated absences
	
Short term compensated absences 
are provided for based on estimates. 
Long term compensated absences 
are provided for based on actuarial 
valuation. The actuarial valuation is 
done as per projected unit credit 
method as at the reporting date.
	
Actuarial gains/losses are immediately 
taken to Statement of profit and loss 
account and are not deferred.
j)	
Share based employee payments
	
Equity settled share based payments
	
The stock options granted to employees are 
measured at the fair value of the options at 
the grant date. The fair value of the options 
is treated as discount and accounted as 
employee compensation cost over the 
vesting period on a straight line basis. The 
amount recognised as expense in each year 
is arrived at based on the number of grants 
expected to vest. If a grant lapses after the 
vesting period, the cumulative discount 
recognised as expense in respect of such 
grant is transferred to the general reserve 
within equity.
k)	
Ind AS 116 Leases
	
The determination of whether an arrangement 
is a lease, or contains a lease, is based on the 
substance of the arrangement and requires 
an assessment of whether the fulfilment of 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
281
280
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
q)	 Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are those components 
of the business whose operating results are 
regularly reviewed by the chief operating 
decision making body in the Group to make 
decisions for performance assessment and 
resource allocation.
	
The reporting of segment information is the 
same as provided to the management for 
the purpose of the performance assessment 
and resource allocation to the segments.
	
Segment accounting policies are in line with 
the accounting policies of the Group. In 
addition, the following specific accounting 
policies have been followed for segment 
reporting:
i) 	
Segment revenue includes operational 
revenue 
directly 
identifiable 
with/
allocable to the segment.
ii) 	 Expenses that are directly identifiable 
with/allocable 
to 
segments 
are 
considered for determining the segment 
result.
iii) 	 Income which relates to the Group as 
a whole and not allocable to segments 
is included in “unallocable corporate 
income / (expenditure)(net)”.
iv) 	 Segment result includes the finance 
costs incurred on interest bearing 
advances with corresponding credit 
included 
in 
“unallocable 
corporate 
income/(expenditure)(net)”.
v) 	 Segment assets and liabilities include 
those directly identifiable with the 
respective 
segments. 
Unallocable 
corporate assets and liabilities represent 
the assets and liabilities that relate to 
the Group as a whole.
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance 
sheet and for the purpose of statement 
of cash flows comprise cash at bank and 
cheques in hand and short-term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months 
or less, which are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value. They are held for 
the purposes of meeting short-term cash 
commitments (rather than for investment or 
other purposes).
s)	
Non-current assets held for sale:
	
Non-current assets and disposable groups 
are classified as held for sale if their carrying 
amount 
is 
intended 
to 
be 
recovered 
principally through a sale (rather than 
through continuing use) when the asset 
(or disposal Company) is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition 
subject only to terms that are usual and 
customary for sale of such asset (or disposal 
Company) and the sale is highly probable 
and is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from 
the date of classification except in some 
circumstances this period can be extended 
if it is beyond the control of management 
and there are sufficient evidence that the 
entity remains committed to its plan to sell 
the asset.
	
Non-current assets and disposal groups 
classified as held for sale are measured at 
lower of their carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell.
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with Ind AS requires that the 
management of the Group makes estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of income and expenses of the period, the 
reported balances of assets and liabilities and 
the disclosures relating to contingent liabilities 
as of the date of the financial statements. The 
estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates include useful lives of 
property, plant and equipment & intangible 
assets, allowance for expected credit losses, fair 
value measurement, business projections used 
for the purpose of goodwill impairment etc. 
Difference, if any, between the actual results and 
estimates is recognised in the period in which 
the results are known.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(ii) 	Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences 
at 
the 
reporting 
date 
between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences, 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses can be utilised, 
except:
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each reporting 
date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred tax asset to 
be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent 
that it has become probable that future 
taxable profits will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised 
outside profit or loss is recognised 
outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). 
Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax 
liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable 
right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same 
taxable entity and the same taxation 
authority.
(iii)	Indirect tax
	
Expenses and assets are recognised 
net of the Goods and Services Tax 
paid, except when the tax incurred on 
a purchase of assets or services is not 
recoverable from the taxation authority, 
in which case the tax paid is recognised 
as part of the cost of acquisition of 
the asset or as part of the respective 
expense item, as applicable.
o)	 Earnings Per Share
	
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings 
per share in accordance with Ind AS 33 on 
Earnings per share. Basic EPS is calculated 
by dividing the net proﬁt or loss for the year 
attributable to equity shareholders by the 
weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted 
earnings per share, the net proﬁt or loss for 
the year attributable to equity shareholders 
and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year are adjusted 
for the effects of all dilutive potential equity 
shares. Dilutive potential equity shares are 
deemed converted as of the beginning of 
the period, unless they have been issued 
at a later date. In computing the dilutive 
earnings per share, only potential equity 
shares that are dilutive and that either 
reduces the earnings per share or increases 
loss per share are included.
p)	 Contingent Liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation 
that arises from past events whose existence 
will be conﬁrmed by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future 
events beyond the control of the Group or 
a present obligation that is not recognised 
because it is not probable that an outﬂow 
of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases where there is a 
liability that cannot be recognised because 
it cannot be measured reliably. The Group 
does not recognise a contingent liability 
but discloses its existence in the ﬁnancial 
statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
283
282
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 3	 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
533.99
421.79
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
1,668.73
13,564.36
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
7,402.15
47,404.27
9,604.87
61,390.42
NOTE 4	 BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months
1,075.52
1,652.74
Earmarked deposits with banks
31,563.54
33,266.85
32,639.06
34,919.59
NOTE 5	 LOANS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At amortised cost
Business Loans
Corporate lending
15,637.42
40,851.33
Small and medium enterprises lending (SME)
23,208.08
31,679.68
Commercial vehicle lending
7,02,362.88
5,54,865.24
Micro LAP
5,188.31
-
Home Loans
-
1,83,686.76
Other loans
-
2,405.14
Total - Gross
7,46,396.69
8,13,488.15
Less: Impairment allowance
(24,744.84)
(32,504.26)
Total - Net
7,21,651.85
7,80,983.89
(a) Secured by tangible assets
7,37,161.77
8,04,052.91
(b) Unsecured
9,234.92
9,435.24
Total - Gross
7,46,396.69
8,13,488.15
Less: Impairment allowance
(24,744.84)
(32,504.26)
Total - Net
7,21,651.85
7,80,983.89
Loans in India
(a) Public sector
-
-
(b) Others
7,46,396.69
8,13,488.15
Total - Gross
7,46,396.69
8,13,488.15
Less: Impairment allowance
(24,744.84)
(32,504.26)
Total - Net (a)
7,21,651.85
7,80,983.89
Loans outside India (b)
-
-
Total - Net (a)+(b)
7,21,651.85
7,80,983.89
Footnotes:
i) 	
Security receipts are presented as part of “Note 6 - Investments”
ii) 	
Stage classification of loans, investments and its impairment allowance is disclosed in Note 32(D) and Note 32(E)
iii) 	 Secured indicates loans secured, wholly or partly, by way of hypothecation of vehicle and / or equitable mortgage of 
property and or equipment.
iv) 	 Also refer Note 34.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
2.5	 Securities premium account
a)	
Securities premium includes:
	
-The difference between the face value of 
the equity shares and the consideration 
received in respect of shares issued;
	
-The fair value of the stock options which 
are treated as expense, if any, in respect of 
shares allotted pursuant to Stock Options 
Scheme.
b)	 The issue expenses of securities which 
qualify as equity instruments are written 
off against securities premium account/ 
retained earning in accordance with Ind AS.
2.6	 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies 
new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. 
For the year ended March 31, 2025, MCA has 
notified Ind AS – 117 Insurance Contracts and 
amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to 
sale and leaseback transactions, applicable to 
the Company w.e.f. April 01, 2024. The Company 
has reviewed the new pronouncements and 
based on its evaluation has determined that 
it does not have any significant impact in its 
financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
285
284
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 8	 CURRENT TAX ASSETS (NET)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance Tax (net of provision)
1,138.23
8,336.99
1,138.23
8,336.99
NOTE 9	 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (NET)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for expected credit loss
15,653.97
17,799.78
Provision for gratuity
150.74
115.29
Provision for compensated absences
76.11
46.97
Debt instruments through OCI
(5.04)
(2.89)
Lease liabilities
118.00
107.60
Income amortisation
(1,121.20)
(531.34)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
974.57
946.50
Carried forward book losses
26,078.66
24,012.02
Total (A)
41,925.81
42,493.93
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill
(7,555.10)
(7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
(1,317.66)
(1,824.22)
Borrowing cost amortisation
(1,378.40)
(2,823.40)
Total (B)
(10,251.16)
(12,202.72)
Net deferred tax asset (A-B)
31,674.65
30,291.21
Deferred tax assets
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
31,674.65
31,651.53
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)
-
-
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
-
-
Total deferred tax assets (A)
31,674.65
31,651.53
Deferred tax liabilities
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
-
-
Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)
-
1,360.32
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
-
-
Total deferred tax liabilities (B)
-
1,360.32
Net deferred tax asset (A-B) (also refer Note 30)
31,674.65
30,291.21
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 6	 INVESTMENTS
Investments as at March 31, 2025
Investment in
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through 
profit and 
loss
Mutual funds
-
-
49,511.64
49,511.64
Security Receipts
1,38,715.21
-
-
1,38,715.21
Treasury Bills
-
9,653.55
-
9,653.55
Bonds
-
10,160.59
10,160.59
Government securities
10,232.72
10,232.72
Total - Gross
1,38,715.21
30,046.86
49,511.64
2,18,273.71
Investments in India
1,38,715.21
30,046.86
49,511.64
2,18,273.71
Investments outside India
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
1,38,715.21
30,046.86
49,511.64
2,18,273.71
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(36,455.26)
-
-
(36,455.26)
Total - Net
1,02,259.95
30,046.86
49,511.64
1,81,818.45
1. 	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is disclosed in 
Note 32 (D).
Investments as at March 31, 2024
Investment in
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through 
profit and 
loss
Mutual funds
-
-
16,723.44
16,723.44
Security Receipts
1,17,530.96
-
-
1,17,530.96
Treasury Bills
-
14,210.78
-
14,210.78
Bonds
-
-
-
-
Government securities
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
1,17,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
1,48,465.18
Investments in India
1,17,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
1,48,465.18
Investments outside India
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
1,17,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
1,48,465.18
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(36,643.38)
-
-
(36,643.38)
Total - Net
80,887.58
14,210.78
16,723.44
1,11,821.80
1. 	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is disclosed in 
Note 32 (D).
NOTE 7	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposit
810.99
784.90
Assignment receivables
5,235.45
7,248.17
Deposits with Trustee for securitisation*
4,484.14
26,929.46
Other Receivables
1,868.59
3,778.30
12,399.17
38,740.83
Less: Impairment allowance
(296.58)
(434.79)
12,102.59
38,306.04
* It represents fixed deposit held as collateral with trustee for pass through certificate transactions
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
287
286
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 11	 ASSETS ACQUIRED IN SATISFACTION OF CLAIM
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
1,708.88
1,708.88
Provision on Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
(408.88)
(408.88)
1,300.00
1,300.00
NOTE 12	
a) 	 Goodwill
Particulars
Total
Cost as at April 01, 2023
30,018.69
Acquisition of business
-
Cost as at March 31, 2024 (A)
30,018.69
Acquisition of business
-
Cost as at March 31, 2025 (B)
30,018.69
Accumulated impairment as at April 01, 2023
-
Addition
-
Accumulated impairment as at March 31, 2024 (C)
-
Addition
-
Accumulated impairment as at March 31, 2025 (D)
-
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2025 (B) - (D)
30,018.69
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024 (A) - (C)
30,018.69
The Company has assessed that there is no impairment of Goodwill as at and for the year ended March 2025. 
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash 
flow projections of commercial vehicle business based on financial budgets covering a five-year period and 
a discount rate of 19%. The Company has determined that the recoverable amount calculations are most 
sensitive to changes in the assumptions of yield/spread during the budget period and the discounting rate. 
The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, on which recoverable 
amount is based would not cause carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
b) 	 Other intangible assets
Particulars
Computer 
Software
Total
Cost as at April 01, 2023
4,520.11
4,520.11
Additions
123.10
123.10
Disposals
-
-
Cost as at March 31, 2024 (A)
4,643.21
4,643.21
Additions
426.76
426.76
Disposals
-
-
Cost as at March 31, 2025 (B)
5,069.97
5,069.97
- Cost as at March 31, 2025 - Continuing Operations (B1)
4,050.02
4,050.02
- Cost as at March 31, 2025 - Discontinued Operations (B2)
1,019.95
1,019.95
Accumulated amortisation as at April 01, 2023
2,168.55
2,168.55
Amortisation recognised for the year
1,184.67
1,184.67
Disposals
-
-
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2024 (C)
3,353.22
3,353.22
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 10	 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Particulars
Land - 
Freehold*
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Leasehold 
Improvement
Office 
equipment
Computers Right-of-Use 
Assets
Total
Cost as at April 01, 2023
15.05
803.89
4,620.44
808.02
3,928.17
3,988.60
14,164.17
Additions
-
20.83
290.47
110.33
871.14
2,983.16
4,275.93
Disposals
-
(17.84)
(112.29)
(10.42)
(45.19)
(1,093.54)
(1,279.28)
Cost as at March 31, 2024 (A)
15.05
806.88
4,798.62
907.93
4,754.12
5,878.22
17,160.82
Additions
-
13.71
806.86
121.53
1,671.76
987.31
3,601.17
Disposals
-
(0.29)
(4.30)
(6.61)
(241.04)
(595.63)
(847.87)
Cost as at March 31, 2025 (B)
15.05
820.30
5,601.18
1,022.85
6,184.84
6,269.90
19,914.12
- Cost as at March 31, 2025 - 
Continuing Operations (B1)
15.05
758.47
5,038.00
858.98
5,473.11
5,016.04
17,159.65
- Cost as at March 31, 2025 - 
Discontinued Operations (B2)
-
61.83
563.18
163.87
711.73
1,253.86
2,754.47
Accumulated depreciation as at 
April 01, 2023
-
605.03
3,559.01
574.76
2,991.87
1,080.06
8,810.73
Depreciation charged during 
the year
-
23.80
476.04
70.88
637.11
929.05
2,136.88
- Depreciation charged - 
Continuing operations
-
14.38
414.68
51.41
573.63
720.98
1,775.08
- Depreciation charged - 
Discontinued operations
-
9.42
61.36
19.47
63.48
208.07
361.80
Disposals
-
(17.84)
(82.35)
(10.42)
(44.81)
(432.04)
(587.46)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2024 (C)
-
610.99
3,952.70
635.22
3,584.17
1,577.07
10,360.15
Depreciation charged during 
the year
-
20.77
622.95
89.69
999.02
1,108.11
2,840.54
- Depreciation charged - 
Continuing operations
-
11.74
492.28
62.92
873.41
844.63
2,284.98
- Depreciation charged - 
Discontinued operations
-
9.03
130.67
26.77
125.61
263.48
555.56
Disposals
-
(0.29)
(4.30)
(6.57)
(238.69)
(429.09)
(678.94)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
March 31, 2025 (D)
-
631.47
4,571.35
718.34
4,344.50
2,256.09
12,521.75
- Accumulated depreciation as 
at March 31, 2025 - Continuing 
Operations (D1)
-
590.90
4,281.88
646.43
3,945.14
1,740.06
11,204.41
- Accumulated depreciation 
as at March 31, 2025 - 
Discontinued Operations (D2)
-
40.56
289.48
71.89
399.36
516.05
1,317.34
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2025 (B) - (D)
15.05
188.83
1,029.83
304.51
1,840.34
4,013.81
7,392.37
Net carrying amount as at March 
31, 2025 - Continuing Operations 
(B1-D1)
15.05
167.57
756.12
212.55
1,527.97
3,275.98
5,955.24
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2025 - Discontinued 
Operations (B2-D2)
-
21.27
273.70
91.98
312.37
737.81
1,437.13
Net carrying amount as at 
March 31, 2024 (A) - (C)
15.05
195.89
845.92
272.71
1,169.95
4,301.15
6,800.67
* Mortgaged as security against Secured Non-convertible Debentures.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
289
288
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(b)	 The details of assets/ disposal group classified as held for sale and liabilities associated thereto are as 
under: 
Assets/Disposal Group
Reportable Segment
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Group(s) of assets classified as held for sale:
Cash and cash equivalents
23,413.04
-
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
9,678.68
-
Loans
2,48,696.82
-
Other financial assets
8,814.08
-
Property, plant and equipment
1,437.13
-
Other intangible assets
211.79
-
Other non-financial assets
1,972.50
-
2,94,224.04
-
Liabilities associated with group(s) classified as held for sale
Trade payables
365.63
-
Debt securities
7,138.20
-
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
2,15,340.88
-
Other financial liabilities
3,210.20
-
Current tax liabilities (net)
5.57
-
Provisions
195.79
-
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
1,964.93
-
Other non-financial liabilities
223.94
-
2,28,445.14
-
NOTE 15	 TRADE PAYABLES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Dues to Micro, small and medium enterprises
6.23
124.16
Dues to Others
1.82
19.51
8.05
143.67
Footnote : Also refer Note 38.
NOTE 16	 DEBT SECURITIES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At amortised cost
Redeemable non convertible debentures (Refer note (a) below)
3,27,429.73
3,26,894.38
Commercial papers (net of unamortised discount) (Refer note (b) below)
51,788.91
7,209.53
3,79,218.64
3,34,103.91
Debt securities in India
3,79,218.64
3,34,103.91
Debt securities outside India
-
-
Total
3,79,218.64
3,34,103.91
Secured
3,17,349.70
2,97,396.60
Unsecured
61,868.94
36,707.31
Total
3,79,218.64
3,34,103.91
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
Computer 
Software
Total
Amortisation recognised for the year
965.96
965.96
- Amortisation recognised for the year - Continuing Operations
776.82
776.82
- Amortisation recognised for the year - Discontinued Operations
189.14
189.14
Disposals
-
-
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2025 (D)
4,319.18
4,319.18
- Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2025 - Continuing 
Operations (D1)
3,511.02
3,511.02
- Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2025 - Discontinued 
Operations (D2)
808.16
808.16
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2025 (B) - (D)
750.79
750.79
- Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2025 - Continuing Operations 
(B1-D1)
539.00
539.00
- Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2025 - Discontinued Operations 
(B2-D2)
211.79
211.79
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2024 (A) - (C)
1,289.99
1,289.99
NOTE 13	 OTHER NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Prepaid expenses
1,520.64
1,499.04
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind or for value to be received
1,402.25
3,751.23
2,922.89
5,250.27
NOTE 14	 NON - CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on September 19, 2024 had considered and 
approved, inter-alia, subject to shareholders, regulatory and other approvals, sale of the Company’s 
shareholding in Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (“NHFPL”)(Formerly known as IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited), a debt-listed material subsidiary of the Company, to WITKOPEEND B.V. (the “Purchaser”) for 
an aggregate consideration of ` 170,595 lakhs in accordance with the terms of the share purchase agreement 
dated September 19, 2024 among the Company, NHFPL and the Purchaser. Subsequently, the Shareholders’ 
approval was obtained on October 26, 2024. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) accorded its approval on March 
21, 2025. However, as on March 31, 2025, the transaction is not considered as concluded.
Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of NHFPL have been classified as “Non-current asset held for sale” and 
“Liabilities for assets held for sale” respectively in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, the results 
for the current and previous year pertaining to NHFPL have been reclassified as “discontinued operations” in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Ind-AS 105 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations.
(a) The Group has following non-current assets/disposal group recognised as held for sale
Assets/Disposal Group
Reportable Segment
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non-current Assets (Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited)
Housing Finance
NA
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
291
290
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 17	 BORROWINGS
At amortised cost
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Term loans
Term loans from Banks (Refer note (a) below)*
1,12,293.42
1,62,666.78
Term loans from Financial Institutions (Refer note (a) below)*
54,265.25
23,962.25
Term loans from NHB (Refer note (b) below)
-
18,143.92
Loans repayable on demand
Working capital demand loans from banks **
27,849.73
38,885.13
Other borrowings
1,18,021.19
1,79,403.04
Total
3,12,429.59
4,23,061.12
Borrowings in India
3,12,429.59
4,23,061.12
Borrowings outside India
-
-
Total
3,12,429.59
4,23,061.12
Secured borrowings
3,12,429.59
4,23,061.12
Unsecured borrowings
-
-
Total
3,12,429.59
4,23,061.12
(a)	 Term loan from banks/FI :
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>=7.89% <= 
11.00%
Rate of interest 
>=8.10% <= 
12.00%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
69,561.67
70,997.72
12-24 Months
54,085.12
48,839.10
24-36 Months
24,289.84
30,217.40
36-48 Months
12,842.78
14,464.87
48-60 Months
5,779.26
8,838.20
Above 60 Months
-
13,271.74
Total
1,66,558.67
1,86,629.03
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(a) 	Non Convertible Debenture
	
Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 9.85% <= 
10.70%
Rate of interest 
>= 6.77% <= 
11.40%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
1,65,375.51
1,16,982.04
12-24 Months
1,23,768.32
1,58,644.57
24-36 Months
37,779.45
50,367.77
36-48 Months
-
600.00
48-60 Months
506.45
300.00
Total
3,27,429.73
3,26,894.38
Nature of Security:
1. 	
Security is created in favour of the Debenture Trustee, as follows:
(i)	 first pari-passu charge (along with banks and financial institutions and other lenders which provide 
credit facilities to the Issuer) by way of hypothecation on the standard asset portfolio of receivables 
(net of NPA) of the issuer and / or cash / cash equivalent and/or such other asset, as may be identified 
by the Company of ` 668,139 lakhs (March 2024: ` 515,805 lakhs); and
(ii)	 first pari-passu charge on immovable property situated at village Maharajpura of Kadi taluka, Mehsana 
district, Gujarat.
2. 	 Debentures may be bought back subject to applicable statutory and/or regulatory requirements, upon the 
terms and conditions as may be decided by the Company.
(b)	 Commercial papers
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 9.00% <= 
10.72%
Rate of interest 
>= 8.90% <= 
10.15%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
51,788.91
7,209.53
51,788.91
7,209.53
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
293
292
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 18	 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Book overdraft
13,830.49
4,675.18
Employee benefits payable
2,123.51
3,437.28
Unamortised lease liabilities
3,725.65
4,686.80
Others
20,619.83
15,443.70
40,299.48
28,242.96
NOTE 19	 PROVISIONS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits:
- Gratuity
598.93
458.07
- Compensated absences
302.38
186.63
Others :
- Expected credit loss on undrawn loan commitments
-
26.05
901.31
670.75
NOTE 20	NON-FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Statutory dues payable
745.03
965.35
745.03
965.35
NOTE 21	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(a)	 Details of authorised, issued and subscribed share capital
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Authorised capital
Equity shares of ` 10/- each
18,75,00,000
18,750.00
18,75,00,000
18,750.00
Compulsorily Convertible Preference Share of 
Face Value of ` 10/- each
1,25,00,000
1,250.00
1,25,00,000
1,250.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Equity shares of ` 10/- each fully paid
13,60,97,447
13,609.74
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
Total
13,60,97,447
13,609.74
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
(b) 	Reconciliation of number of equity shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of 
the year
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
Add: Shares issued during the year
18,152
1.81
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
13,60,97,447
13,609.74
13,60,79,295
13,607.93
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(b)	 Term loans from NHB
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
-
Rate of interest 
>= 8.35% <= 
8.70%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
-
3,339.00
12-24 Months
-
3,599.19
24-36 Months
-
3,388.68
36-48 Months
-
1,740.05
48-60 Months
-
1,925.00
Above 60 Months
-
4,152.00
Total
-
18,143.92
* first pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of standard asset portfolio of receivables (Net of provisions) 
of the Company and / or cash and cash equivalent and / or such other asset.
** secured by First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation on the standard asset portfolio.
(c) 	Working capital demand loans:
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 7.25% <= 
8.60%
Rate of interest 
>= 7.28% <= 
9.52%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
27,849.73
38,885.13
Total
27,849.73
38,885.13
(d)	 Other borrowings
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Rate of interest 
>= 7.78% <= 
10.75%
Rate of interest 
>= 7.70% <= 
10.50%
Amount
Amount
0-12 Months
58,836.64
64,415.10
12-24 Months
38,686.28
51,830.09
24-36 Months
10,015.19
23,541.87
36-48 Months
1,624.64
5,159.65
48-60 Months
1,601.21
5,546.11
Above 60 Months
7,257.23
28,910.22
Total
1,18,021.19
1,79,403.04
Footnote: Quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with Banks or Financial Institutions are in 
agreement with the unaudited books of accounts as on the respective submission dates and certified by 
Independent Chartered Accountants / Management, as relevant and relied upon by the Auditors.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
295
294
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 22	OTHER EQUITY
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital Reserve
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
32,134.89
31,083.07
Statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
4,530.38
3,175.09
Securities premium
2,91,967.65
2,92,207.63
Share options outstanding account
4,485.53
2,122.74
General reserve
3,826.31
3,447.24
Retained earnings
(12,567.97)
(22,118.39)
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
11.01
(3.94)
Share application money pending allotment
10.95
-
Money received against share warrants
25,533.40
-
3,49,932.58
3,09,913.87
Note 22.1 Other equity movement
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
0.43
0.43
Add : Transferred from surplus
-
-
Closing Balance
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
31,083.07
29,650.80
Add : Transferred from surplus
1,051.82
1,432.27
Closing Balance
32,134.89
31,083.07
Statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
Opening Balance
3,175.09
2,293.19
Add : Transferred from surplus
1,355.29
881.90
Closing Balance
4,530.38
3,175.09
Securities premium
Opening Balance
2,92,207.63
2,92,207.63
Less : Share issue expenses
(283.22)
-
Add: Transfer from ESOP reserves
12.81
-
Add : Premium collected on allotment of shares
30.43
-
Closing Balance
2,91,967.65
2,92,207.63
Share options outstanding account
Opening Balance
2,122.74
2,074.82
Movement during the year
2,362.79
47.92
Closing Balance
4,485.53
2,122.74
General reserve
Opening Balance
3,447.24
2,683.84
Movement during the year
379.07
763.40
Closing Balance
3,826.31
3,447.24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(c) 	Particulars of equity shares held by Holding Company
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding 
Company
7,64,82,638
56.20%
7,64,82,638
56.20%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(d) 	Particulars of shareholders holding more than 5% of the equity share capital
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding 
Company
7,64,82,638
56.20%
7,64,82,638
56.20%
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
Promoter
2,32,62,583
17.09%
2,32,62,583
17.09%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(e)	 Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each holder of equity 
shares is entitled to proportionate vote on basis of his contribution to fully paid up share capital.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to 
the proportionate amount of contribution made by the equity shareholder to the total equity share capital.
(f)	 Objective of Capital Management
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company 
complies with externally imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy 
capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of its activities. The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy and the Board reviews the capital 
position on a regular basis.
(g)	 Equity Shares held by promoters/holding company at the end of the year
Promoter Name
No. of Shares
% of 
Total Shares
% change 
during the year
As at March 31, 2025
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
7,64,82,638
56.20%
-
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
2,32,62,583
17.09%
-
As at March 31, 2024
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
7,64,82,638
56.20%
-
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
2,32,62,583
17.09%
(13.38%)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
297
296
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Retained earnings
Retained earnings represents surplus of accumulated earnings of the Company and which are available for 
distribution to shareholders.
General reserve
General reserve represents transfer of fair value of options granted to employees from ESOP Reserve to 
General Reserve on lapse/forfeiture of vested options by employees.
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
It includes gain/(loss) on fair valuation of investment in treasuy bills.
Share application money pending allotment
It represents money received on exercise of vested options by the employees pending allotment of shares. 
The shares have been alloted subsequent to March 31, 2025
Money received against share warrant
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 27, 2024 approved issuance of 2,48,18,888 warrants 
of the Company to BCP V Multiple Holdings PTE Limited (the “Holding Company”) and Florintree Tecserv 
LLP, each convertible into, or exchangeable for, 1 fully paid-up equity share of the Company of face value 
of ` 10 by way of a preferential issue on a private placement basis at a issue price of ` 184 per equity 
share, in accordance with Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“SEBI ICDR Regulations”), the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), 
as amended and other applicable laws, and subject to the approval of regulatory/ statutory authorities and 
the shareholders of the Company (the “Preferential Issue”).
The Preferential Issue has subsequently been approved by the Shareholders at the Extra-Ordinary General 
Meeting of the Members held on March 22, 2024.
During the year, the Board of Directors of the Company vide its Circular Resolution passed on May 26, 2024, 
approved the allotment of 1,08,69,565 warrants of the Company on a preferential basis by way of a private 
placement, to Florintree Tecserv LLP. The Company received consideration of ` 5,000 lakhs on the date of 
allotment.
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 18, 2024 approved change in subscription amount 
to be received from BCP V Multiple Holdings PTE Limited (the “Holding Company”) at the time of the 
subscription of the warrants from 25% to 80%. The Company received requisite approvals for issue of 
warrants to the Holding Company. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company vide its Circular 
Resolution passed on November 26, 2024, approved the allotment of 1,39,49,323 warrants of the Company 
on a preferential basis by way of a private placement, to the Holding Company. The Company received 
consideration of ` 20,533.40 lakhs on the date of allotment.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Retained earnings
Opening Balance
(22,118.39)
(31,347.41)
Add: Remeasurement of defined benefit plan/obligations
(94.54)
(39.82)
Add: Transferred from the statement of profit and loss
12,052.07
11,583.01
Less: Transfer to statutory reserve u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
(1,051.82)
(1,432.27)
Less: Transfer to statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing 
Bank Act, 1987
(1,355.29)
(881.90)
Closing Balance
(12,567.97)
(22,118.39)
Other Comprehensive Income
Opening balance
(3.94)
(12.52)
Add: Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
14.95
8.58
Closing balance
11.01
(3.94)
Share application money pending allotment
Opening balance
-
-
Add: amount received towards share application
10.95
-
Closing balance
10.95
-
Money received against share warrant
Opening balance
-
-
Add: Money received against share warrant
25,533.40
-
Closing balance
25,533.40
-
22.2	Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital Reserve
	
Capital reserve comprises of the amount received on shares forfeited by the Company on non-payment of 
call money.
	
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
Statutory reserves fund is required to be created by a Non-Banking Financial Company as per Section 45-
IC of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The Company is not allowed to use the reserve fund except with 
authorisation of Reserve Bank of India.
	
Statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
Statutory reserves fund is required to be created by Housing Finance Company as per Section 29C of the 
National Housing Bank of India Act, 1987. The Housing Finance Subsidiary is not allowed to use the reserve 
fund except with authorisation of National Housing Bank.
As per Section 29C of The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (the “NHB Act”), the Housing Finance Subsidiary 
is required to transfer at least 20% of its net profits every year to a reserve before any dividend is declared. 
For this purpose any Special Reserve created by the Housing Finance Subsidiary under Section 36(1)(viii) 
of the Income-tax Act, 1961, is considered to be an eligible transfer. Special reserve u/s 29C of the NHB Act 
includes amount transferred for Special Reserve in terms of Section 36(1)(viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
	
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. It can be utilised in accordance with 
the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
Share options outstanding account
The shares options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of equity settled 
options issued to employees under stock option schemes of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
299
298
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 25	FINANCE COST
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised 
cost:
Interest expense on borrowings
Loans from banks/FI
17,088.60
18,844.89
Other borrowings (including Inter Corporate Deposits)
13,549.64
11,298.83
Interest expense on debt securities
Debentures
38,025.08
25,919.78
Commercial paper
4,837.48
1,203.87
Other interest expense
Bank charges & other related costs
583.19
703.38
74,083.99
57,970.75
NOTE 26	IMPAIRMENT ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT AMORTISED COST
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Impairment on loans
Provision for expected credit loss
(6,514.38)
(11,030.05)
Financial assets written off (net of recovery)
20,825.87
20,453.30
Impairment on others
Undrawn loan commitments
-
(0.80)
Provision on co-lending arrangements
(587.18)
(1,086.49)
Others
28.03
(29.27)
13,752.34
8,306.69
NOTE 27	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, other allowances and bonus
25,111.99
18,874.51
Gratuity expenses
162.52
107.37
Compensated absences
189.03
49.94
Contribution to provident and other funds
1,096.63
750.41
Staff welfare expenses
1,007.54
586.36
Share based payment expense
2,203.70
812.34
29,771.41
21,180.93
Less : Expense related to discontinued operation (refer note 14)
-
(259.55)
29,771.41
20,921.38
NOTE 28	DEPRECIATION
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (PPE)
2,284.98
1,775.08
Amortisation of intangible assets
776.82
991.29
3,061.80
2,766.37
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 23	REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income
Interest income on financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Interest on loans
- Loan portfolio
1,15,275.95
87,435.02
Interest on investments
- Debt instruments
120.24
118.95
Interest on deposits
- Deposits with banks
2,187.39
1,663.77
- Deposits with Trustees
751.92
1,435.03
Interest Income on financial assets measured at FVOCI:
- Investments in debt instruments
1,343.25
701.31
1,19,678.75
91,354.08
Fees and commission income
- Fees Income
6,102.02
4,647.13
- Insurance Income
5,861.64
476.08
11,963.66
5,123.21
Net gain on fair value changes
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
On trading portfolio
- Investments
3,242.76
2,147.32
Others
Net gain/(loss) on sale of financial instruments at FVOCI
1.40
-
3,244.16
2,147.32
Fair value changes:
- Realised
3,083.76
2,124.65
- Unrealised
160.40
22.67
3,244.16
2,147.32
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
- Investments
7.47
11,668.14
- Assignment Income
5,522.45
-
5,529.92
11,668.14
Total
1,40,416.49
1,10,292.75
NOTE 24	OTHER INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Miscellaneous income
124.10
120.20
Interest on income tax refund
420.89
298.38
Profit on sale of property plant and equipment
4.40
-
549.39
418.58
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
301
300
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(b)	 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
- 	
Remeasurements of the defined 
benefit plans
(126.35)
31.81
(94.54)
(53.22)
13.40
(39.82)
- 	
Debt instruments through other 
comprehensive income
20.00
(5.05)
14.95
11.47
(2.89)
8.58
Tax expense for the year
(106.35)
26.76
(79.59)
(41.75)
10.51
(31.24)
(c) 	Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit before tax
5,254.15
7,024.36
Statutory income tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Expected income tax expense
1,322.36
1,767.89
Difference in tax rate due to:
- 	
Effect of non-deductible expenses
36.32
63.83
- 	
Tax expense of earlier years
0.12
0.08
- 	
DTA recognised on previously unrecognised brought forward 
losses
(1,359.86)
(1,866.20)
- 	
Others
6.87
38.58
Total tax expense
5.81
4.18
0.11%
0.06%
Current tax
5.69
4.10
Tax expense of earlier year
0.12
0.08
Deferred tax
-
-
5.81
4.18
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 29	OTHER EXPENSES
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rent
1,015.74
979.49
Rates & taxes
644.30
127.79
Printing and stationery
291.90
261.41
Travelling & conveyance
1,656.09
1,184.35
Advertisement
18.91
41.11
Business Promotion
13.10
29.28
Commission & brokerage
9.73
64.29
Office expenses
2,499.83
1,933.85
Directors' fees & commission
48.06
34.95
Insurance
828.04
618.90
Communication expenses
901.47
615.01
Payment to auditors (note below)
178.53
195.52
IT Support charges
2,824.41
2,571.76
Legal & professional charges
4,280.01
6,196.92
Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
-
22.55
Membership & subscriptions
78.15
76.78
Other fees and commission
26.36
41.08
Provision for doubtful advances
0.29
0.40
15,314.92
14,995.44
Less : Expense related to discontinued operation (refer note 14)
(272.73)
(1,273.66)
15,042.19
13,721.78
Payment to auditor includes:
a) Statutory Audit
161.60
160.06
b) Certifications
9.00
17.25
c) Others
7.93
18.21
Total
178.53
195.52
Footnote : Excludes fees amounting to ` 72.80 lakhs paid to auditor during the year in connection with initial public offer 
of debentures of the Company which forms part of effective interest rate method in accordance with IND AS 109 “Financial 
Instruments”.
NOTE 30	INCOME TAXES
Tax expense
(a) 	Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current tax expense
1. Current tax
5.69
4.10
2. Tax of earlier years
0.12
0.08
5.81
4.18
Deferred tax expense
3. Deferred tax expenses
-
-
-
-
Tax expense for the year
5.81
4.18
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
303
302
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Net 
balance 
April 01, 
2023
Less: DTA 
/ (DTL) of 
Discontinued 
operations
Recognised in 
profit or loss 
(Discontinued 
operations)
Recognised 
in profit 
or loss 
(Continuing 
operations)
Recognised 
in OCI 
(Discontinued 
operations)
Recognised 
in OCI 
(Continuing 
operations)
Net deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Deferred Tax 
Assets
Provision for 
expected credit loss
20,724.50
-
51.23
(2,975.95)
-
-
17,799.78
Provision for 
gratuity
105.61
-
0.13
(3.85)
2.60
10.80
115.29
Provision for leave 
encashment
31.35
-
6.30
9.32
-
-
46.97
Income amortisation
(87.35)
-
(67.93)
(376.06)
-
-
(531.34)
Depreciation on 
PPE and intangible 
assets
845.78
-
17.32
83.40
-
-
946.50
Carry forward losses
19,575.18
-
-
4,436.84
-
-
24,012.02
Debt instruments 
through OCI
4.20
-
-
(4.20)
-
(2.89)
(2.89)
Lease liabilities
64.21
-
10.22
33.17
-
-
107.60
Other items of 
disallowance
121.29
-
-
(121.29)
-
-
-
Deferred tax 
liability
Borrowing cost 
amortisation
(1,262.31)
-
(204.14)
(1,356.95)
-
-
(2,823.40)
Goodwill 
amortisation
(7,555.10)
-
-
-
-
-
(7,555.10)
Assignment income 
amortisation
(1,503.28)
-
(596.51)
275.57
-
-
(1,824.22)
Deferred tax assets 
/ (Liabilities)
31,064.08
-
(783.38)
-
2.60
7.91
30,291.21
The Management considers the deferred tax assets recognised on carried forward losses to be fully set-off 
against future available profits considering the expected net interest income (NIM) from the existing loan book 
over the tenure of the loan.Deferred tax asset of ` 876.83 lakhs (Previous year: ` 2,515.88 lakhs) on Unused 
Carried forward losses is yet to be recognised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
(d) 	Movement in deferred tax balances
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Net 
balance 
April 01, 
2024
Less: DTA 
/ (DTL) of 
Discontinued 
operations
Recognised in 
profit or loss 
(Discontinued 
operations)
Recognised 
in profit 
or loss 
(Continuing 
operations)
Recognised 
in OCI 
(Discontinued 
operations)
Recognised 
in OCI 
(Continuing 
operations)
Net deferred 
tax asset/
(liability) 
(Continuing 
operations)
Deferred Tax 
Assets
Provision for 
expected credit loss
17,799.78
409.09
135.06
(1,736.72)
-
-
15,653.97
Provision for 
gratuity
115.29
18.34
6.53
25.62
3.64
28.17
150.74
Provision for leave 
encashment
46.97
10.66
4.83
39.80
-
-
76.11
Income amortisation
(531.34)
(30.66)
(97.47)
(620.52)
-
-
(1,121.20)
Depreciation on 
PPE and intangible 
assets
946.50
37.22
22.66
65.29
-
-
974.57
Carried forward 
losses
24,012.02
-
-
2,066.64
-
-
26,078.66
Debt instruments 
through OCI
(2.89)
-
-
2.90
-
(5.05)
(5.04)
Lease liabilities
107.60
16.48
7.04
26.88
-
-
118.00
Other items of 
disallowance
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Deferred tax 
liability
Borrowing cost 
amortisation
(2,823.40)
(326.79)
(97.03)
1,118.21
-
-
(1,378.40)
Goodwill 
amortisation
(7,555.10)
-
-
-
-
-
(7,555.10)
Assignment income 
amortisation
(1,824.22)
(1,494.66)
(589.88)
(988.10)
-
-
(1,317.66)
Deferred tax assets 
/ (Liabilities)
30,291.21
(1,360.32)
(608.26)
-
3.64
23.12
31,674.65
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
305
304
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
B. 	 Risk Management Framework:
	
The Group’s risk management framework is based on:
(a) Clear understanding and identification of various risks;
(b) Disciplined risk assessment by evaluating the probability and impact of each risk;
(c) Measurement and monitoring of risks by establishing key risk indicators with thresholds for all critical 
risks; and
(d) Adequate review mechanism to monitor and control risks.
	
The Group’s risk management division works as a value centre by constantly engaging with the business 
providing reports based on key analysis and insights. The key risks faced by the Group are credit risk, 
liquidity risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational and regulatory risk, which are broadly classified 
as credit risk, market risk and operational risk. The Group has a an established risk reporting and monitoring 
framework. The Group identifies and monitors risks periodically. This process enables the Group to reassess 
the all critical risks in a changing environment that need to be focused on.
C. 	 Risk governance structure:
	
The Group’s risk governance structure operates with a well-defined Board and Risk Management 
Committee (‘RMC’) with a clearly laid down charter and roles and responsibilities. The Board oversees 
the risk management process and monitors the risk profile of the Group directly as well as through a 
Board constituted Risk Management Committee. The Committee reviews the risk management policy, 
implementation of risk management framework, monitoring of critical risks, review and approval of 
exposures with conflict of interest and review of various other initiatives. The risk management policies are 
established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate limits and controls and 
to monitor risks and adherence to limits. The RMC reviews the risk management policies regularly to reflect 
the changes in market conditions and Group’s activities.
	
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of risk management framework in relation to the risk faced by the 
Group.
	
The risk management committee has established a comprehensive risk management framework across 
the business and provides appropriate reports on risk exposures and analysis in its pursuit of creating 
awareness across the Group about risk management.
D.	
Fair value hierarchy
	
Ind AS 107, ‘Financial Instrument - Disclosure’ requires classification of the valuation method of financial 
instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which 
reflects the significance of inputs used in the measurements). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to 
un-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and 
lowest priority to un-observable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy 
under Ind AS 107 are described below:
	
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices.
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using 
valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on 
entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the 
instrument is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is 
included in level 3. This is the case for unlisted equity securities included in level 3.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 31	 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Basic EPS calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders (after adjusting profit 
impact of dilutive potential equity shares, if any) by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on 
conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity shares.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Continuing Operations:
Profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations (A)
5,248.34
7,020.18
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating Basic 
EPS (B)
13,60,82,508
13,60,79,295
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating Diluted 
EPS (C)
14,06,88,562
13,61,35,973
Basic earnings per share (`) (A/B)
3.86
5.16
Diluted earnings per share (`) (A/C)
3.73
5.16
Discontinuing Operations
Profit attributable to equity holders from discontinuing operations 
(D)
6,803.73
4,562.83
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating Basic 
EPS (E)
13,60,82,508
13,60,79,295
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating Diluted 
EPS (F)
14,06,88,562
13,61,35,973
Basic earnings per share (`) (D/E)
5.00
3.35
Diluted earnings per share (`) (D/F)
4.84
3.35
Total Earnings
Profit attributable to equity holders (G)
12,052.07
11,583.01
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating Basic 
EPS (H)
13,60,82,508
13,60,79,295
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating Diluted 
EPS (I)
14,06,88,562
13,61,35,973
Basic earnings per share (`) (G/H)
8.86
8.51
Diluted earnings per share (`) (G/I)
8.57
8.51
NOTE 32	FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FAIR VALUES
A.	
Accounting classification and fair values
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market 
conditions, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
	
The management has assessed that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, loans carried at 
amortised cost, other financial assets, trade payables, borrowings, bank/book overdrafts and other financial 
liabilities are a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
307
306
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding impairment loss allowances 
in relation to investments measured at amortised cost is as follows:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
-
- 1,17,530.96 1,17,530.96
-
-
42,871.31
42,871.31
New assets originated or 
purchased
-
-
40,545.67
40,545.67
-
-
90,051.90
90,051.90
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write 
offs)
-
-
(19,361.42)
(19,361.42)
-
-
(15,392.25)
(15,392.25)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
-
-
1,38,715.21
1,38,715.21
-
- 1,17,530.96
1,17,530.96
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Impairment loss allowance 
- opening balance
-
-
36,643.38
36,643.38
-
-
24,576.64
24,576.64
Incremental provision (net)
-
-
(188.12)
(188.12)
-
-
12,066.74
12,066.74
Impairment loss allowance 
- closing balance
-
-
36,455.26
36,455.26
-
-
36,643.38
36,643.38
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered 
under Ind AS 
109
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
Total
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
-
-
7,21,651.85
7,21,651.85
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered 
under Ind AS 
109
-
-
7,80,983.89
7,80,983.89
-
-
7,80,983.89
7,80,983.89
Total
-
-
7,80,983.89 7,80,983.89
-
-
7,80,983.89 7,80,983.89
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of loans
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments 
covered under 
Ind AS 109
(a) Investments 
in Mutual 
funds
49,511.64
-
-
49,511.64
49,511.64
-
-
49,511.64
(b) Investments 
in Security 
Receipts
-
-
1,02,259.95
1,02,259.95
-
-
1,02,259.95
1,02,259.95
(c) Treasury 
Bills
-
9,653.55
-
9,653.55
9,653.55
-
-
9,653.55
(d) Bonds and 
Government 
securities
-
20,393.31
-
20,393.31
20,393.31
-
-
20,393.31
Total
49,511.64
30,046.86
1,02,259.95
1,81,818.45
79,558.50
-
1,02,259.95
1,81,818.45
* based on NAV statements and other information received from assets reconstruction company and adjusted 
for Expected credit losses.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit and 
loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in 
active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments 
covered under 
Ind AS 109
(a) Investments 
in Mutual 
funds
16,723.44
-
-
16,723.44
16,723.44
-
-
16,723.44
(b) Investments 
in Security 
Receipts
-
-
80,887.58
80,887.58
-
-
80,887.58
80,887.58
(c) Treasury 
Bills
-
14,210.78
-
14,210.78
14,210.78
-
-
14,210.78
(d) Bonds and 
Government 
securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
16,723.44
14,210.78
80,887.58
1,11,821.80
30,934.22
-
80,887.58
1,11,821.80
* based on NAV statements and other information received from assets reconstruction company and adjusted 
for Expected credit losses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
309
308
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified as Stage 2 when the amount is due for more than 30 days but less than 
90 days. All exposures where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition but 
are not credit impaired are classified under this stage.
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset have occurred. Exposures where the amount remains 
due for 90 days or more are considered as to be stage 3 assets.
	
The Group has established a policy to perform an assessment, at the end of each reporting period, of 
whether a financial instrument’s credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. The Group 
undertakes the classification of exposures within the aforesaid stages at borrower level.
 
Definition of default
	
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make the contractual payments within 90 
days of when they fall due. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 3, if on the reporting 
date, it has been 90 days and above past due. Non-payment on another obligation of the same customer 
is also considered as a Stage 3. In addition, Group shall also classify those accounts as default which 
meets the criteria as per the RBI circular RBI/2021-2022/125 DOR.STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 
November 12, 2021.
	
The calculation of ECL
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit losses (i.e. present value of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of 
the financial instruments. Cash shortfalls are the difference between the cash flows that the entity is entitled 
to receive on account of contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined below and the key elements are as follows:
	
Portfolio Segmentation:
	
For ECL purpose, the loan portfolio is broadly segmented as below :
	
1) Corporate lending
	
2) Small and medium enterprises lending (‘SME’)
	
3) Commercial vehicle lending
	
4) Housing finance
	
5) Micro lap
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The Exposure at Default is the amount the Group is entitled to receive as 
on reporting date including repayments due for principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or 
otherwise, expected drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
Probability of Default (PD) : The Probability of Default is an estimate of the likelihood of default of the 
exposure over a given time horizon. A default may only happen at a certain time over the assessed period, 
if the facility has not been previously derecognised and is still in the portfolio.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The Loss Given Default is an estimate of the loss arising in the case where a 
default occurs at a given time. It is based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due and 
those that the lender would expect to receive, including from the realisation of any collateral.
	
The ECL allowance is applied on the financial instruments depending upon the classification of the financial 
instruments as per the credit risk involved. ECL allowance is computed on the below mentioned basis:
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is the portion of Lifetime ECL that represents the ECL that results from 
default events on a financial instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date. 
12-month ECL is applied on stage 1 assets.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
E. 	 Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises when a borrower is unable to meet his contractual obligations to the lender. The effective 
management of credit risk requires the establishment of appropriate credit risk policies and processes. 
The Company has comprehensive and well defined credit policies across various businesses, products and 
segments, which encompass credit approval process for all businesses along with guidelines for mitigating 
the risks associated with them. The appraisal process includes detailed risk assessment of the borrowers, 
physical verifications and field visits. The Company has a well-defined post sanction monitoring process to 
identify portfolio-wise credit risk trends and early warning signals. This enables it to implement necessary 
changes to the credit policy, whenever the need arises to prevent any further slippage in the credit quality.
 
Grouping financial assets measured on a collective basis
	
The Group splits its exposure into smaller homogeneous portfolios, based on shared credit risk characteristics, 
as described below in the following order:
	
- Customer i.e. corporate and retail
	
- Nature of product i.e. Commercial Vehicle, Corporate lending, SME, Housing Finance and Micro lap
 
Significant increase in credit risk
	
The credit risk on a financial asset of the Group are assumed to have increased significantly since initial 
recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The retail loans where the 
renegotiated terms are not substantially different and involve repayment terms to be extended including 
interest or the EMI amount readjusted over the tenure are classified as Stage 2. In case of corporate loan the 
assessment of significant increase in credit risk is performed on a case to case basis. Additionally, accounts 
identified and reviewed by the credit committee for labelling as breaching pre-defined critical credit risk 
parameters will also be classified as Stage 2. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 2, 
based on the quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
	
Write off
	
The Company writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the counterparty is in 
severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Financial assets written off may still 
be subject to enforcement activities under the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal 
advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in Statement of profit and loss.
 
Restructured financial assets
	
A loan where repayment terms are renegotiated on substantially different terms as compared to the original 
contracted terms due to significant increase in credit risk of the borrower are classified as stage 2. Such 
loans continue to be in stage 2 until they exhibit regular payment of renegotiated principal and interest over 
a minimum observation period typically 12 months-post renegotiation, and there are no other indicators 
of impairment. Having satisfied the conditions of timely payment over the observation period these loans 
could be transferred to stage 1 or 2 and a fresh assessment of the risk of default is done.
	
Overview of the Expected Credit Loss principles
	
The Group records allowance for expected credit losses for all loans, debt financial assets not held at 
FVTPL, undrawn loan commitments (referred to as ‘financial instruments’).
	
For the computation of ECL on the financial instruments, the Group categories its financial instruments as 
mentioned below:
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
or that has low credit risk at the reporting date and that are not credit impaired upon origination are 
classified under this stage. The Group classifies all advances upto 30 days overdue under this category. 
Stage 1 loans also include facilities where the credit risk has improved and the loan has been reclassified 
from Stage 2.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
311
310
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation 
to loans and advances (Continuing operation) is as follows:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
5,66,073.97
32,457.45
31,269.97
6,29,801.39
4,10,306.00
1,17,199.41
46,224.01
5,73,729.42
New assets originated or 
purchased
5,22,718.73
2,099.87
3,777.37
5,28,595.97
4,56,640.80
8,644.98
3,332.69
4,68,618.47
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
(3,13,159.27) (24,480.74)
(15,597.78) (3,53,237.79) (2,35,629.02) (50,865.68) (19,541.60) (3,06,036.30)
Transfers to stage 1
32,328.87 (27,375.89)
(4,952.98)
-
27,933.58 (22,804.02)
(5,129.56)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(1,23,256.01) 1,24,075.50
(819.49)
-
(79,594.64)
86,040.77
(6,446.13)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(16,235.25)
(36,311.60)
52,546.85
-
(8,705.75)
(21,696.25)
30,402.00
-
Amounts written off  
(net of recovery)
(982.03)
(5,609.02) (14,234.82)
(20,825.87)
-
(9,693.89)
(10,759.41)
(20,453.30)
Presented under 
Investments as Security 
Receipts*
(276.36)
(19,385.17) (18,275.48)
(37,937.01)
(4,877.00)
(74,367.87)
(6,812.03)
(86,056.90)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
6,67,212.65
45,470.40
33,713.64
7,46,396.69
5,66,073.97
32,457.45
31,269.97
6,29,801.39
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation 
to loans and advances (Discontinued operation) is as follows:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
1,78,438.48
3,180.99
2,067.29
1,83,686.76
1,28,450.76
3,133.81
1,667.61
1,33,252.18
New assets originated or 
purchased
1,11,419.38
196.56
161.43
1,11,777.37
94,080.74
94.26
197.54
94,372.54
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
(42,992.77)
(564.58)
(552.31)
(44,109.66)
(42,531.54)
(567.70)
(537.31)
(43,636.55)
Transfers to stage 1
977.53
(859.70)
(117.84)
-
3,328.16
(2,698.95)
(629.21)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(2,400.15)
2,454.79
(54.64)
-
(4,631.20)
4,890.46
(259.26)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(1,600.44)
(709.93)
2,310.37
-
(258.44)
(1,670.89)
1,929.33
-
Amounts written off  
(net of recovery)
-
-
(419.73)
(419.73)
-
-
(301.41)
(301.41)
Presented under 
Investments as Security 
Receipts*
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
2,43,842.03
3,698.13
3,394.57
2,50,934.73
1,78,438.48
3,180.99
2,067.29
1,83,686.76
* Presented under Investments in Security Receipts (Refer to Note 32(D))
$Reasonable steps are being taken by the Management for recovery of the principal and interest.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for credit losses expected to arise over the life of the asset in cases of credit 
impaired loans and in case of financial instruments where there has been significant increase in credit risk 
since origination. Lifetime ECL is the expected credit loss resulting from all possible default events over 
the expected life of a financial instrument. Lifetime ECL is applied on stage 2 and stage 3 assets. the Group 
computes the ECL allowance either on individual basis or on collective basis, depending on the nature of 
the underlying portfolio of financial instruments. the Group has grouped its loan portfolio into Corporate 
loans, SME loans and Commercial vehicle loans and Housing Finance.
	
Forward looking information
	
The Group employs statistical models to analyse the data collected and generate estimates of the remaining 
lifetime PD of exposures and how these are expected to change as a result of the passage of time. Such 
statistical models are selected considering the availability of information related to the probability of default 
for each product. This analysis includes the identification and calibration of relationships between changes 
in GNPA as proxy for default rates and changes in key macro-economic factors. Key economic indicators 
considered for forward looking includes:
	
• Gross national income growth
	
• Inflation % change over previous year
	
For the purpose of determination of impact of forward looking information, the Company applies macro 
economic (ME) variables as stated above to each product and assess the trend of the historical probability 
of defaults as compared to the forecasted probability of default. Based on the directional trend of output, 
management applies an overlay if required. Overtime, new ME variable may emerge to have a better 
correlation and may replace ME being used now.
	
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation 
to loans and advances (Continuing and discontinued operation) is as follows:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
7,44,512.44
35,638.45
33,337.26
8,13,488.15
5,38,756.75
1,20,333.23
47,891.62
7,06,981.60
New assets originated or 
purchased
6,34,138.11
2,296.43
3,938.80
6,40,373.34
5,50,721.54
8,739.24
3,530.23
5,62,991.01
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
(3,56,152.04) (25,045.32)
(16,150.09) (3,97,347.45) (2,78,160.56)
(51,433.38) (20,078.91) (3,49,672.85)
Transfers to stage 1
33,306.40 (28,235.59)
(5,070.82)
-
31,261.74
(25,502.97)
(5,758.77)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(1,25,656.16) 1,26,530.29
(874.13)
-
(84,225.84)
90,931.23
(6,705.39)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(17,835.69)
(37,021.53)
54,857.22
-
(8,964.19)
(23,367.14)
32,331.33
-
Amounts written off  
(net of recovery)
(982.03)
(5,609.02) (14,654.55)
(21,245.60)
-
(9,693.89) (11,060.82)
(20,754.71)
Presented under 
Investments as Security 
Receipts*
(276.36)
(19,385.17) (18,275.48)
(37,937.01)
(4,877.00)
(74,367.87)
(6,812.03)
(86,056.90)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
9,11,054.67
49,168.54
37,108.21
9,97,331.42
7,44,512.44
35,638.45
33,337.26
8,13,488.15
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
313
312
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Reconciliation of ECL balance (Discontinued operation) is given below:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
 Total 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
 Total 
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
716.74
139.59
576.83
1,433.16
633.83
151.46
461.41
1,246.70
New assets originated or 
purchased
437.66
5.32
257.89
700.87
388.71
2.76
39.30
430.77
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
(166.07)
(25.35)
(126.94)
(318.36)
(188.78)
(29.91)
(129.88)
(348.57)
Changes to models and 
inputs used
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transfers to stage 1
3.76
(3.30)
(0.46)
-
196.84
(59.77)
(137.07)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(52.15)
53.55
(1.40)
-
(19.38)
72.98
(53.60)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(479.83)
(209.92)
689.75
-
(1.11)
(47.28)
48.39
-
Impact on year end ECL 
on exposures transferred 
between stages during the 
year
500.66
171.80
(38.13)
634.33
(293.37)
49.35
512.32
268.30
Amounts written off  
(net of recovery)
-
-
(212.09)
(212.09)
-
-
(164.04)
(164.04)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
960.77
131.69
1,145.45
2,237.91
716.74
139.59
576.83
1,433.16
F. 	 Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity is the Group’s capacity to fund increase in assets and meet both the expected and unexpected 
obligations without incurring unacceptable losses. Liquidity risk is the inability to meet such obligations 
as they become due without adversely affecting the Group’s financial conditions. The Asset Liability 
Management Policy of the Group stipulates a broad framework for Liquidity risk management to ensure that 
the Group can meet its liquidity obligations. The Asset Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) monitors 
composition, characteristics and diversification of funding sources to ensure there is no over reliance on 
single source of funding. The Group tracks the cash flow mismatches for measuring and managing net 
funding requirement through Maturity Ladder approach and reviews short-term liquidity profiles based on 
business projections and other commitments for planning purposes through Liquidity analysis. The ALCO 
also reviews the individual mismatch in each time bucket and cumulative mismatch and ensures the bucket 
wise limits are not breached.
	
The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse assets that are assumed to be easily 
liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption in cash flow. The liquidity position of the Group is 
assessed under a variety of scenarios giving due consideration to stress factors relating to both the market 
in general and risk specifics to the Group. Basis the liquidity position assessed under various stress scenarios; 
the Group reviews the following to effectively handle any liquidity crisis:
• 	
Adequacy of contingency funding plan in terms of depth of various funding sources, time to activate, 
cost of borrowing, etc
• 	
Availability of unencumbered eligible assets
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Reconciliation of ECL balance (Continuing and discontinued operation) is given below:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
 Total 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
 Total 
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
11,014.35
2,435.70
19,054.21
32,504.26
11,554.30
17,885.85
25,974.45
55,414.60
New assets originated or 
purchased
7,350.60
603.78
1,414.28
9,368.66
12,111.11
551.71
1,567.86
14,230.68
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
(5,254.25)
(1,362.32) (17,503.97)
(24,120.54)
(6,537.73)
(5,365.80) (10,012.97)
(21,916.50)
Changes to models and 
inputs used
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transfers to stage 1
3,433.75
(1,053.98)
(2,379.77)
-
5,011.53
(2,021.86)
(2,989.67)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(3,674.79)
4,056.32
(381.53)
-
(4,123.41)
7,191.50 (3,068.09)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(1,875.09)
(1,788.38)
3,663.47
-
(2,114.36)
(2,128.93)
4,243.29
-
Impact on year end ECL 
on exposures transferred 
between stages during the 
year
(2,309.39)
1,544.57
21,227.07
20,462.25
(4,756.63)
(154.26)
12,880.75
7,969.86
Amounts written off  
(net of recovery)
(136.07)
(2,875.40)
(8,220.41)
(11,231.88)
(130.46)
(13,522.51)
(9,541.41)
(23,194.38)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
8,549.11
1,560.29
16,873.35
26,982.75
11,014.35
2,435.70
19,054.21
32,504.26
Reconciliation of ECL balance (Continuing operation) is given below:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
 Total 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
 Total 
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
10,297.60
2,296.11
18,477.39
31,071.10
10,920.45
17,734.39
25,513.05
54,167.89
New assets originated or 
purchased
6,912.94
598.46
1,156.39
8,667.79
11,722.40
548.95
1,528.56
13,799.91
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
(5,088.18)
(1,336.97)
(17,377.03)
(23,802.18)
(6,348.95)
(5,335.89)
(9,883.09)
(21,567.93)
Changes to models and 
inputs used
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transfers to stage 1
3,429.99
(1,050.68)
(2,379.31)
-
4,814.69
(1,962.09)
(2,852.60)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(3,622.64)
4,002.77
(380.13)
-
(4,104.03)
7,118.52
(3,014.49)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(1,395.26)
(1,578.46)
2,973.72
-
(2,113.25)
(2,081.65)
4,194.90
-
Impact on year end ECL 
on exposures transferred 
between stages during the 
year
(2,810.05)
1,372.77
21,265.20
19,827.92
(4,463.26)
(203.61)
12,368.43
7,701.56
Amounts written off  
(net of recovery)
(136.07)
(2,875.40)
(8,008.32)
(11,019.79)
(130.45)
(13,522.51)
(9,377.37)
(23,030.33)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
7,588.33
1,428.60
15,727.91
24,744.84
10,297.60
2,296.11
18,477.39
31,071.10
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
315
314
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
As on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Carrying 
amount
Fair value
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
At amortised cost
Debt securities
3,34,103.91
-
-
3,34,103.91
3,34,103.91
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
4,23,061.12
-
-
4,23,061.12
4,23,061.12
Total
7,57,165.03
-
-
7,57,165.03
7,57,165.03
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
G. 	 Market risk
	
Market Risk is the possibility of loss arising from changes in the value of a financial instrument as a result 
of changes in market variables such as interest rates, exchange rates and other asset prices. The Group’s 
exposure to market risk is a function of asset liability management and interest rate sensitivity assessment. 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk and liquidity risk, if the same is not managed properly. The Group 
continuously monitors these risks and manages them through appropriate risk limits. The Asset Liability 
Management Committee (‘ALCO’) reviews market related trends and risks and adopts various strategies 
related to assets and liabilities, in line with the Group’s risk management framework.
H. 	 Operational risk
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, 
or from external events. The operational risks of the Group are managed through comprehensive internal 
control systems and procedures. Failure of managing operational risk might lead to legal / regulatory 
implications due to non-compliance and lead to financial loss due to control failures. While it is not practical 
to eliminate all the operational risk, the Group has put in place adequate control framework by way of 
segregation of duties, well defined process, staff training, maker and checker process, authorisation and 
clear reporting structure. The effectiveness of control framework is assessed by internal audit on a periodic 
basis.
	
To manage fraud risk effectively, the Group has Independent Risk Containment Unit (‘RCU’) which is 
responsible for implementing fraud risk management framework and ensure compliance. The RCU 
undertakes various activities such as pre-sanction loan applicant verification, pre-sanction and post 
disbursement documents verification, vendor verification, etc to prevent and manage frauds.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
	
Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities as on balance sheet date have been 
provided below:
As on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
8.05
-
-
-
8.05
Debt securities
95,547.28
1,21,617.14
1,62,054.22
-
3,79,218.64
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
46,981.86
1,09,266.18
1,48,924.32
7,257.23
3,12,429.59
Other financial liabilities
36,762.25
592.34
2,763.78
181.11
40,299.48
Total
1,79,299.44
2,31,475.66
3,13,742.32
7,438.34
7,31,955.76
Notes: - The above inflows and outflows is based on scheduled maturity of the financial instruments.
- ` 16,900.00 lakhs classified as per contractual maturity above pertains to borrowing which exceeds the limits 
specified in the covenants.
- Also refer Note 42
As on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
143.67
-
-
-
143.67
Debt securities
9,015.08
1,15,176.48
2,09,912.35
-
3,34,103.91
Borrowings  
(other than debt securities)
46,894.84
1,30,750.65
1,99,098.28
46,317.35
4,23,061.12
Other financial liabilities
23,777.97
693.30
3,342.79
428.90
28,242.96
Total
79,831.56
2,46,620.43
4,12,353.42
46,746.25
7,85,551.66
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities including their 
levels in the fair value hierarchy:
As on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Carrying 
amount
Fair value
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
At amortised cost
Debt securities
3,79,218.64
-
-
3,79,218.64
3,79,218.64
Borrowings  
(other than debt securities)
3,12,429.59
-
-
3,12,429.59
3,12,429.59
Total
6,91,648.23
-
-
6,91,648.23
6,91,648.23
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
317
316
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
V
Discountinued operations (Refer note 14)
(a) Segment Revenue
40,908.09
29,042.68
(b) Segment Results
9,086.15
5,939.63
(c)
Segment Assets
2,94,224.04
2,19,829.23
(d) Segment Liabilities
2,28,445.14
1,61,714.96
*	
Unallocated includes income from treasury assets and other income
**	
Unallocated includes other operating expenses
***	 Unallocated includes treasury assets and advance/tax deducted (net), deferred tax asset (net)
****	 Unallocated includes other liabilities, deferred tax liabilities
NOTE 34 Related Party Disclosures, as required by Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Ind AS 24) are given 
below:
a) 	 Relationships
I. 	
Ultimate Controlling Party
	
Brookfield Asset Management Inc.
II. 	 Holding Company
	
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
III. 	 Names of other related parties with whom the Group had transactions during the year:
	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
	
Randhir Singh - Executive Vice Chairman & Whole Time Director (w.e.f July 22, 2024)
	
Karthikeyan Srinivasan - CEO & Whole Time Director
	
Bobby Parikh - Non-Executive Independent Director (upto March 04, 2025) and Non-Executive 
Director (w.e.f. March 05, 2025)
	
Hemant Kaul - Non-Executive Independent Director
	
Naina Krishna Murthy - Non-Executive Independent Director
b) 	 Transactions with Holding Company
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Money Received against Share Warrants
20,533.40
-
Upfront Fees
-
1,228.41
c) 	 Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMP):
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Short-term employee benefits
563.36
196.44
Sitting fees to Non-Executive Independent Directors
48.06
34.95
Reimbursement of expenses
0.82
1.62
The above compensation excludes contributions to post-employment defined benefit plan and share based 
payment expense.
d) 	 Transactions other than those with key management personnel : Nil
e) 	 The related party balances outstanding at year end : Nil
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 33	DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO IND AS 108 “OPERATING SEGMENT”
Business segments
The Group has identified operating segments based on performance assessment and resource allocation by the 
chief operating decision maker. Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under 
each reportable segment. All other revenue/expenses which primarily consists of tax expenses and other income 
are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocated. Assets and liabilities that are 
directly attributable or allocable to segments are disclosed under each reportable segment. All other assets 
and liabilities are disclosed as unallocable, which primarily consists of current tax and deferred tax assets/
liabilities and investments. As the operations of the Group are carried out within India, there are no geographical 
segments. The Group operates in the following segments:
Large Corporate segment provides loans to medium and large-sized corporates, institutional customers and 
real estate developers.
SME segment provides lending to small and medium enterprises for business financing needs including working 
capital, business expansion or other requirements.
Commercial vehicle segment primarily consists of financing for used and new vehicles.
Housing Finance segment consists of affordable home financing to self-employed and salaried customers.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
I
Gross segment revenue from continuing operations
(a) Large corporate
2,593.05
8,492.43
(b) SME
5,177.56
10,296.45
(c)
Commercial vehicles
1,25,655.97
86,687.99
(d) Unallocated*
7,539.30
5,234.46
Segment revenue from continuing operations
1,40,965.88
1,10,711.33
II
Segment results
(a) Large corporate
1,258.82
(14,966.17)
(b) SME
1,709.22
9,457.31
(c)
Commercial vehicles
16,727.99
23,853.89
(d) Unallocated**
(14,441.88)
(11,320.67)
Profit/(loss) before tax
5,254.15
7,024.36
III
Segment assets
(a) Large corporate
79,289.85
92,130.57
(b) SME
46,031.20
47,060.61
(c)
Commercial vehicles
7,41,782.38
6,01,248.81
(d) Unallocated***
1,64,262.09
1,51,800.66
Total assets
10,31,365.52
8,92,240.65
IV
Segment liabilities
(a) Large corporate
53,166.67
62,481.88
(b) SME
32,672.35
35,115.03
(c)
Commercial vehicles
5,19,465.27
4,23,671.13
(d) Unallocated****
1,28,297.81
1,05,565.08
Total liabilities
7,33,602.10
6,26,833.12
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
319
318
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
(B) 	Future lease cashflow for all leased assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
1,120.02
1,334.59
Later than one year but not later than five years
3,317.11
4,113.10
Later than five years
202.07
479.24
4,639.20
5,926.93
(C) 	Maturity analysis of lease liability
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease liability
Less than 12 months
780.76
915.11
More than 12 months
2,944.89
3,771.69
3,725.65
4,686.80
NOTE 38	DUES TO MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES AS PER MSMED ACT, 2006
The following disclosure is made as per the requirement under The Micro Small and Medium Enterprise 
Development Act, 2006 (the ‘MSMED Act’) on the basis of confirmations sought from suppliers on registration 
with the specified authorities under MSMED :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a. 	 Principal amount remaining unpaid
6.23
124.16
b. 	 Interest due thereon remaining unpaid
-
-
c. 	 Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along 
with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the 
appointed day
-
-
d. 	 Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
period) but without adding interest specified under the Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises Act,2006)
-
-
e. 	 Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
-
-
f. 	
Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to 
the small enterprises
-
-
The aforementioned is based on the responses received by the Group to its inquiries with suppliers with regard 
to applicability under the said Act. This has been relied upon by the auditors. No interest has been paid/is 
payable by the Group during the year to the suppliers registered under this Act.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 35	SET OUT BELOW IS THE DISAGGREGATION OF THE REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH 
CUSTOMERS
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Type of Services or service
- Fees Income
6,102.02
4,647.13
Total revenue from contracts with customers
6,102.02
4,647.13
Geographical markets
India
6,102.02
4,647.13
Outside India
-
-
Total revenue from contracts with customers
6,102.02
4,647.13
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
6,102.02
4,647.13
Services transferred over time
-
-
Total revenue from contracts with customers
6,102.02
4,647.13
NOTE 36	CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contingent liabilities
Corporate guarantee given by Company to banks
-
2,375.00
Litigation cases filed against the Company
43.00
71.04
Income tax matters under dispute
-
602.14
Capital commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account
86.95
86.95
Loans sanctioned not yet disbursed
9,809.52
22,167.16
NOTE 37	DISCLOSURES AS REQUIRED BY IND AS 116 ‘LEASES’
(A) 	Lease liability movement
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
4,686.80
3,103.51
Less: Liabilities associated with group(s) classified as held for sale
(763.26)
-
3,923.54
3,103.51
Add : Additions during the year
679.14
2,957.43
Add : Interest on lease liability
374.52
389.35
Less : Deletions
(191.02)
(705.55)
Less : Lease rental payments
(1,060.53)
(1,057.94)
3,725.65
4,686.80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
321
320
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
C. 	 Change in plan assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
4.68
4.36
Return on plan assets
0.76
3.55
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(0.43)
(3.23)
Benefits paid
-
-
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
5.01
4.68
D. 	 Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss for continuing operation
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current service cost
138.81
88.61
Past service cost and loss/(gain) on curtailments and settlement
-
-
Net interest cost
23.71
18.76
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
162.52
107.37
E. 	 Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Actuarial (gains) / loss
- change in financial assumption
77.38
2.20
- change in demographic assumption
-
-
- experience variation
34.10
47.79
Return on plan assets, excluding amount recognised in net interest 
expense
0.43
3.23
111.91
53.22
Add: Amounts recognised for Obligation associated with group(s) 
classified as held for sale
14.44
-
126.35
53.22
F. 	 Assumptions used
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.55%
7.15%
Salary growth rate
9.50%
6.00%
Withdrawal rates
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
G. 	 Sensitivity analysis 
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding 
other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown 
below.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Discount rate (0.5% movement)
593.14
615.14
455.50
470.23
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement)
614.27
593.84
470.05
455.53
Withdrawal rate (10% movement)
577.10
634.12
449.93
476.58
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Ageing analysis of Trade Payable
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from  
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 Years
(i) MSME
6.23
-
-
-
6.23
(ii) Others
1.82
-
-
-
1.82
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from  
due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 Years
(i) MSME
124.16
-
-
-
124.16
(ii) Others
19.51
-
-
-
19.51
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
NOTE 39	GRATUITY AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Group has an funded defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more 
of service is eligible for a gratuity on separation at 15 days basic salary (last drawn salary) for each completed 
year of service.
Based on Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with 
paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2016, the following disclosures have been made as required by the standard:
A. 	 Amount recognised in the balance sheet
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Present value of the obligation as at the end of the year
603.94
462.75
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
5.01
4.68
Net asset / (liability) to be recognised in the balance sheet
598.93
458.07
B. 	 Change in projected benefit obligation
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Projected benefit of obligation at the beginning of the year
462.75
423.97
Less: Obligation associated with group(s) classified as held for sale
(72.85)
-
389.90
423.97
Current service cost
138.81
110.73
Past service cost
-
-
Interest cost
24.47
26.22
Benefits paid
(60.72)
(148.16)
Addition on account of business combination
-
-
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation
111.48
49.99
Projected benefit obligation at the end of the year
603.94
462.75
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
323
322
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Share of Other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
As % of 
Consolidated 
Other 
comprehensive 
income
` lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
Other 
comprehensive 
income
` lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
86.43%
(68.79)
75.29%
(23.52)
Subsidiaries
Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)
13.57%
(10.80)
24.71%
(7.72)
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-
-
-
-
Total
100.00%
(79.59)
100.00%
(31.24)
Share of Total comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
As % of 
Consolidated 
Total 
comprehensive 
income
` lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
Total 
comprehensive 
income
` lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
43.35%
5,190.30
61.79%
7,137.85
Subsidiaries
Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)
56.51%
6,765.66
38.10%
4,401.79
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private 
Limited
0.14%
16.52
0.11%
12.13
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-
-
-
-
Total
100.00%
11,972.48
100.00%
11,551.77
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
H. 	 Other information :
1. 	
Plans assets comprises 100% of Insurance funds
2. 	 The expected contribution for the next year is ` 175.59 lakhs.
3. 	 The average outstanding term of the obligations as at valuation date is 3.27 years.
4. 	 The above disclosure is based on report and assumptions provided by the actuary and has been relied 
upon by the Auditors.
NOTE 40	ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH 2 OF THE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES 
ACT, 2013
Net assets i.e. total assets minus total liabilities
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net assets
` lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net assets
` lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
94.25%
3,42,622.25
95.88%
3,10,204.46
Subsidiaries
Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)
18.00%
65,430.90
17.96%
58,114.27
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private 
Limited
0.13%
490.17
0.15%
473.65
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
(12.38%)
(45,001.00)
(13.99%)
(45,270.58)
Total
100.00%
3,63,542.32
100.00%
3,23,521.80
Share of Profit or Loss
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
As % of 
Consolidated 
profit or loss
` lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
profit or loss
` lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
43.64%
5,259.09
61.83%
7,161.37
Subsidiaries
Niwas Housing Finance Private 
Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited)
56.23%
6,776.46
38.07%
4,409.51
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private 
Limited
0.14%
16.52
0.10%
12.13
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-
-
-
-
Total
100.00%
12,052.07
100.00%
11,583.01
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
325
324
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Maximum term of Options granted 
(years)
Options granted under the ESOP Plans would vest not less than 1 (one) 
year from the date of grant of Options. Options shall be capable of being 
exercised within a period of 4 years from the Date of Vesting. 
Performance based optins will generally vest between a minimum of one 
to maximum of six and half years from the grant date.
Method of Settlement
Equity
Source of shares
Primary
Variation in terms of ESOP
None
Method used for accounting of 
options
Fair Value Method
II. 	 Option Movement during the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
No. of options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
31,750
13,39,500
10,000
11,80,250
36,77,136
Options granted during the year
-
-
-
5,00,000
19,47,424
Options forfeited / lapsed during 
the year
6,750
2,58,500
-
-
4,34,756
Options exercised during the year
-
4,500
-
-
13,652
Total number of shares arising as a 
result of exercise of options
-
4,500
-
-
13,652
Money realised by exercise of 
options (` lakhs)
-
6.26
-
-
25.99
Number of options outstanding at 
the end of the year
25,000
10,76,500
10,000
16,80,250
51,76,152
Number of options exercisable at 
the end of the year
15,000
4,90,850
10,000
4,11,500
7,71,168
The weighted average market price 
of shares exercised during the year 
ended March 31, 2025 (`)
-
263.20
-
-
269.64
III. 	 Option Movement during the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
No. of options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
35,700
19,13,000
1,46,500
2,30,000
3,98,500
Options granted during the year
-
-
-
10,25,000
35,75,492
Options forfeited / lapsed during 
the year
3,950
5,73,500
1,36,500
74,750
2,96,856
Options exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Total number of shares arising as a 
result of exercise of options
-
-
-
-
-
Money realised by exercise of 
options (` lakhs)
-
-
-
-
-
Number of options outstanding at 
the end of the year
31,750
13,39,500
10,000
11,80,250
36,77,136
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 41	 EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS
The Group provides share-based employee benefits to the employees of the Company, Subsidiary Company, 
the Directors, whether a whole time Director or otherwise but excluding Non-Executive Independent Directors, 
including the Directors of the Company, or a Subsidiary Company, such other entities or individuals as may be 
permitted by Applicable Laws and any of the aforesaid employees who are on deputation at the request of the 
Company and during the year ended March 31, 2025, employee stock option plans (ESOPs) were in existence. 
The relevant details of the schemes and the grant are as below.
A. 	 Description of share-based payment arrangements
	
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has the following share-based payment arrangements:
	
Share option plans (equity settled)
	
According to the Schemes, the employees selected by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) 
from time to time will be entitled to options, subject to satisfaction of the prescribed vesting conditions. 
The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options granted is 5 to 6.5 
years.
I. 	
Details of the ESOP
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP 
Plan 2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
Date of Shareholder's Approval
July 30, 2012
May 09, 2016
October 17, 
2016
April 28, 2017 December 15, 
2017
Total Number of Options approved
 15,00,000 
 27,00,000 
 30,00,000 
 20,00,000 
 60,00,000 
Vesting Requirements
Vesting Criteria will specified for each Option Holder by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee at the time of grant of Options. For valid 
vesting of Options, the concerned Option Holder is required to be an 
Eligible Employee on the respective Vesting Date and not be subject to 
any disciplinary proceedings pending against him/her. Unless the NRC 
provides otherwise, the Vesting of Options granted hereunder shall be 
stalled / blocked during any unauthorised and unpaid leave of absence for 
such period as may prescribed by NRC or for any Cause as deemed fit by 
the NRC. For performance based options granted under the ESOP Plans, 
options shall vest based on achievement of defined annual performance 
parameters as determined by the NRC. The performance parameters will 
be based on a combination of relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
and operating performance metrics of the Company as decided by the 
NRC. Each of the above performance parameters will be distinct for the 
purposes of the calculation of quantity of shares to be vested based on 
performance. These instruments will generally vest between a minimum of 
one to maximum of six and half years from the grant date.
The Pricing Formula
Options can be Exercised at any of the following Exercise Price, as may 
be determined by the NRC at its sole discretion at the time of grant of 
Options: 
(i) 	 Fair Market Value rounded to the nearest rupee; or
(ii) 	 Market Price rounded to the nearest rupee; or
(iii) 	such price as may be determined by the NRC. However, the Exercise 
Price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Shares.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
327
326
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTE 42	MATURITY PATTERN OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
An analysis of its assets and liabilities according to their timing of recoverability and settlement has been 
presented below in a tabulated format.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
9,604.87
-
9,604.87
61,390.42
-
61,390.42
Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
1,075.52
31,563.54
32,639.06
6,782.02
28,137.57
34,919.59
Loans
2,53,628.94
4,68,022.91
7,21,651.85
2,23,166.62
5,57,817.27
7,80,983.89
Investments
79,558.50
1,02,259.95
1,81,818.45
43,684.22
68,137.58
1,11,821.80
Other financial assets
1,868.59
10,234.00
12,102.59
4,370.43
33,935.61
38,306.04
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net)
-
1,138.23
1,138.23
-
8,336.99
8,336.99
Deferred tax assets (net)
-
31,674.65
31,674.65
-
31,651.53
31,651.53
Property, plant and equipment
-
5,955.24
5,955.24
-
6,800.67
6,800.67
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
-
1,300.00
1,300.00
-
1,300.00
1,300.00
Goodwill
-
30,018.69
30,018.69
-
30,018.69
30,018.69
Other intangible assets
-
539.00
539.00
-
1,289.99
1,289.99
Other non-financial assets
2,614.42
308.47
2,922.89
4,389.85
860.42
5,250.27
Non - current assets held for sale
2,94,224.04
- 2,94,224.04
-
-
-
TOTAL ASSETS
6,42,574.88 6,83,014.68
13,25,589.56 3,43,783.56 7,68,286.32
11,12,069.88
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 12 
months
More than 
12 months
Total
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
8.05
-
8.05
143.67
-
143.67
Debt securities
2,17,164.42
1,62,054.22
3,79,218.64
1,24,191.56
2,09,912.35
3,34,103.91
Borrowings (other than debt securities)*
1,56,248.04
1,56,181.55
3,12,429.59
1,77,645.48
2,45,415.64
4,23,061.12
Other financial liabilities
37,354.59
2,944.89
40,299.48
24,471.27
3,771.69
28,242.96
Non-financial liabilities
Provisions
276.41
624.90
901.31
219.23
451.52
670.75
Deferred Tax Liability
-
-
-
-
1,360.32
1,360.32
Other non-financial liabilities
745.03
-
745.03
965.35
-
965.35
Liabilities for assets held for sale
2,28,445.14
- 2,28,445.14
-
-
-
TOTAL LIABILITIES
6,40,241.68 3,21,805.56 9,62,047.24 3,27,636.56
4,60,911.52
7,88,548.08
* also refer note 32(F)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Number of options exercisable at 
the end of the year
14,250
3,59,950
10,000
1,55,250
1,14,450
The weighted average market price 
of shares exercised during the year 
ended March 31, 2024 (` Per share)
-
-
-
-
-
IV. 	 Weighted Average remaining contractual life
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Range of Exercise Price  
(` per share)
218.00
139.00 - 
437.00
255.00
219.05 - 
437.00
131.45 - 
437.00
No. of Options Outstanding as on 
March 31, 2024
25,000
10,76,500
10,000
16,80,250
51,76,152
Contractual Life (in years)
0.94
0.84
-
2.15
1.98
V. 	 Method and Assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted:
The fair value of the awards are estimated using the Black-Scholes Model for time and non-market 
performance-based options and Monte Carlo simulation model is used for Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
based options.
The Assumptions used in the model are as follows:
Variables
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Risk free interest rate
-
-
-
6.53%
6.86%
Weighted average expected life  
(in years)
-
-
-
3.88
5.00
Expected volatility
-
-
-
45.64%
44.33%
Dividend yield
-
-
-
0%
0%
Exercise Price
-
-
-
235.50
250.43
Weighted average exercise price  
(` per share)
-
-
-
235.50
250.43
VI. 	 Effect of share-based payment transactions on the entity’s Profit or Loss for the period:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Employee share based expense
2,203.70
812.34
Total ESOP reserve outstanding*
4,485.53
2,122.74
* Includes Niwas Housing Finance Private Limited (Formerly known as IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited) 
ESOP reserve of ` 550.97
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
329
328
Annual Report 2024-25
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
The group has established and maintained an adequate internal control framework and based on its assessment, 
believes that this was effective throughout the year. 
NOTE 44	Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and / or reclassified wherever considered necessary 
to conform to current year presentation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
NOTE 43 OTHER NOTES
Note 43.1
In relation to the loans portfolio, the Management has on a best effort basis and knowledge, has not identified 
transactions with Nil financiers (previous year Nil) aggregating ` Nil (previous year Nil) used for refinancing 
loans of the customers.
Note 43.2
The disclosure on the following matters required under Schedule III as amended not being relevant or applicable 
in case of the Group, same are not covered:
a) 	 The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
b) 	 No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Group for holding any benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
c) 	 The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
d) 	 The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
e) 	 Charges or satisfaction to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) have been registered within the 
stipulated statutory timelines.
f) 	 There are no transactions which are not recorded in the books of account which have been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
g) 	 In respect of the disclosure required vide notification dated March 24, 21 issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the Group has taken steps to identify transactions with the struck-off companies and considering 
the nature of business which is primarily lending to individuals and other small players, there are no such 
transactions which may be required to be reported.
h) 	 The provision related to number of layers as prescribed under section 2(87) of the Companies Act read with 
Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017 is not applicable to Company.
i) 	
Other than the loans and advances given in normal course of business, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Group to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party 
identified by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The Group has also not received any 
fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Company shall whether, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
j) 	
Title deed of immovable property has been held in the name of the Company.
k) 	 The Company has used seven accounting software, for maintaining its books of account (including two 
accounting software managed and maintained by a third-party software service provider) which has a 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, except that no audit trail feature was enabled at database 
level in respect of Four accounting software and in case of one accounting software, the audit trail feature 
at the database level was enabled with effect from July 01, 2024 to log any direct data changes. 
	
Further, in case of one susidiary, software for maintaining treasury and investment function, the feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility was not enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes.
	
Further, to the extent enabled, audit trail feature has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the accounting software. Also, we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with. Additionally, the audit trail of previous year has been preserved by the Company as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it was enabled and recorded in previous year. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Currency : Indian Rupees in lakhs)
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For M S K A & Associates
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
Tushar Kurani
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Partner 
Membership No. 118580
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman 
& Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Date: April 29, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
330
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Naina Krishnamoorthy
Randhir Singh
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Non-Executive Independent Chairperson 
DIN: 01216114
Executive Vice Chairman &  
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 05353131
Chief Executive Officer &  
Whole Time Director 
DIN: 10056556
Jayesh Jain
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2025
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
1
2
1
Name of the subsidiary
IndoStar Asset 
Advisory Private 
Limited
Niwas Housing Finance 
Private Limited (formerly 
known as IndoStar Home 
Finance Private Limited)
2
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if 
different from the holding Company’s reporting period
1 April 2024 to 
31 March 2025
1 April 2024 to  
31 March 2025
3
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the 
last date of the relevant Financial year in the case of 
foreign subsidiaries.
NA
NA
4
Share capital
- Authorised capital
10.00
1,00,000.00
- Paid-up capital
1.00
45,000.00
5
Reserves & surplus
489.17
20,430.90
6
Total Assets
493.48
2,94,224.04
7
Total Liabilities
493.48
2,94,224.04
8
Investments
-
-
9
Turnover
-
40,763.70
10
Profit / (loss) before taxation
22.33
9,058.88
11
Provision for taxation
5.81
2,282.42
12
Profit / (loss) after taxation
16.52
6,776.46
13
Proposed Dividend
Nil
Nil
14
Extent of shareholding (in percentage)
100%
100%
Notes:
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Not applicable
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidiated or sold during the year: Not applicable (refer footnote below)
Footnote :
The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 19 September 2024 had considered and approved, 
inter-alia, subject to shareholders, regulatory and other approvals, sale of the Company’s shareholding in Niwas 
Housing Finance Private Limited (“NHFPL”)(Formerly known as IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited), a 
debt-listed material subsidiary of the Company, to WITKOPEEND B.V. (the “Purchaser”) for an aggregate 
consideration of Rs. 170,595 lakhs in accordance with the terms of the share purchase agreement dated 19 
September 2024 among the Company, NHFPL and the Purchaser. Subsequently, the Shareholders’ approval 
was obtained on 26 October 2024. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) accorded its approval on 21 March 2025. 
However, as on 31 March 2025, the transaction is not considered as concluded.
Part B	 Associates and Joint Ventures - Not applicable
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries or associate companies or 
joint ventures
Part A  Subsidiaries	
	
	
	
	
	
(Currency : Indian Rupees Lakhs)
FORM AOC-I
NOTES
331
Annual Report 2024-25
332
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
NOTES
REGISTERED & CORPORATE OFFICE:
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No. 301-A,
Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road,
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099.
Tel No.: +91 22 4315 7000
E-mail: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
www.indostarcapital.com
