 
Mail to 
:     (Head Office) KSB Limited (Formerly KSB Pumps Limited), Mumbai - Pune Road, Pimpri, Pune - 411 018. (India) 
Tel. : +91 20 2710 1000  Fax : +91 20 2742 6000   Visit us at : www.ksbindia.co.in 
Registered Office :   Office No. 601,  Runwal R-Square, L.B.S. Marg,  Mulund (West), Mumbai- 400 080, Tel. : +91  (022) 2168 1300   
Zonal Offices 
:   Chennai • Kolkata • Mumbai • NOIDA 
CIN : L29120MH1960PLC011635 
 
 
 
Date: 23rd April, 2025   
 
The General Manager                                        
The Manager 
The Corporate Relationship Department            
Listing Department 
BSE Limited                                                               National Stock Exchange of India 
1st floor, New Trading Ring,                        
          Limited 
Rotunda Building                                               
“Exchange Plaza”, C-1, Block G 
P J Towers                                                         
Bandra-Kurla Complex 
Dalal Street, Fort                                               
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai 400 001                                               
Mumbai 400 051 
BSE Scrip Code: 500249                                
NSE Symbol: KSB 
 
Subject: Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024 and Notice convening Sixty 
Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company. 
 
Ref: Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.  
 
Dear Sirs/Madam, 
 
In terms of Regulation 34 of the above referred Regulations, we herewith submit the 
soft copy of the Annual Report which comprises of the Board’s Report along with 
Annexures including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”), 
Audited Standalone Financial Statements, Audited Consolidated Financial Statements 
and Auditor's Report thereon, for the Financial Year ended 31st December, 2024, and 
the Notice convening Sixty Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company scheduled 
to be held on Thursday, 15th May, 2025 at 01.30 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
(VC)/Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM). 
 
The Annual Report of the Company for the Financial Year ended 31st December, 2024 
and Notice of Sixty Fifth Annual General Meeting have been sent through e- mail to all 
the Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/Depository 
Participants. 
 
In accordance with the Regulation 36(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (‘Listing Regulations, 2015’), a letter 
containing the web-link, including the exact path, where complete details of the 
Annual Report are available, is being sent to all the Shareholders who have not 
registered their Email IDs with the Company or Depository Participants or MUFG 
Intime India Private Limited (Formerly Link Intime India Private Limited), Registrar & 
Transfer Agent (“RTA”) of the Company. 
 
The aforesaid Annual Report along with Notice has also been uploaded on the website 
of the Company at www.ksbindia.co.in   
 
Kindly take the same on your record. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For KSB Limited 
 
 
 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: Annual Report 
SHRADDHA 
SHAM 
KAVATHEKAR
Digitally signed by 
SHRADDHA SHAM 
KAVATHEKAR 
Date: 2025.04.23 
21:28:31 +05'30'
th
65  Annual Report, 2024
We provide expert service solutions for key sectors 
KSB SupremeServ delivers expert service solutions across key sectors. From complex power and process 
systems to critical infrastructure and utility services, we support reliable operation, eﬃciency and sustainability 
backed by decades of industry expertise and global service reach.
Petrochemical and Chemical
General Industry
Energy
Building Services 
Water
Mining
Key Services Oﬀered by KSB SupremeServ 
From initial consultancy and planning to 
installation, operation, maintenance, and 
advanced digital services KSB SupremeServ 
supports you throughout the entire lifecycle 
of your pumping systems. Backed by over 
3,500 service specialists
 
 
 and
190+ service centers worldwide, 
we deliver expertise, reliability, and peace of 
mind wherever you are.
KSB SupremeServ – One partner. Every 
service. Complete lifecycle care.
Transforming Service Excellence into Customer Value
"KSB SupremeServ delivers comprehensive, tailored service 
solutions designed to ensure the longevity and optimal 
performance of KSB products. From installation and maintenance 
to troubleshooting and upgrades, we oﬀer a full spectrum of 
services that enhance operational eﬃciency, minimize downtime, 
and maximize system reliability. Our expert team is dedicated to 
provide unmatched support, help customers achieve sustained 
performance while reducing overall operational costs. Through 
KSB SupremeServ, we empower our clients with the tools and 
expertise they need to maintain peak performance, ensuring long-
term value and seamless operations.”
KSB India SupremeServ Network
To ensure quick response and personalized 
service, KSB India SupremeServ operates a wide 
network of 
 across India 
14 Branch Oﬃces
including Head oﬃce at 
. 
PPD - Chinchwad, Pune
AddiƟonally, we have service staƟons at Baddi, 
Odhav, Pune, Noida, Howrah and Chennai. 
Strategically located near major industrial hubs, 
our branch teams provide local experƟse with 
global standards delivering Ɵmely support for 
installaƟon, maintenance, repairs, spare parts, and 
technical consultaƟon.
Each branch is staﬀed with trained service 
engineers, technical experts, and genuine spare 
parts support, ensuring minimal downƟme and 
maximum equipment reliability for our customers.
Wherever your operaƟons are, KSB SupremeServ 
is just around the corner ready to serve. 
▪ Pune
▪ Baroda
▪ Mumbai
▪ Chennai
▪ Kochi
▪ Jaipur
▪ Chandigarh
▪ Lucknow
▪ Indore
▪ Kolkata
▪ Jamshedpur
▪ Bhubaneshwar
▪ Raipur
▪ Noida
▪ GuwahaƟ
▪ Patna
▪ Bangalore
▪ Secunderabad
What Sets Us Apart: Superior Service, Proven Performance
From consultancy and 
commissioning to operation, 
monitoring, and repair, we support 
your systems at every stage.
End-to-End
 Lifecycle Support
Global Strength, 
Local Reach
With over 3,500 service specialists 
and 190+ service centers world-wide, 
we ensure fast, expert service 
wherever you operate.
 Manufacturer-Grade
 Expertise
Backed by 150+ years of engineering 
know-how, we understand your 
equipment better than anyone else 
ensuring accurate diagnostics, 
reliable repairs, and long-term 
eﬃciency.
 Smart & 
Sustainable Solutions
Genuine Spare Parts 
& Fast Turnaround
Our digital tools like KSB Guard and 
Sonolyzer ® help you monitor 
performance, reduce energy 
consumption, and prevent 
downtime.
We provide authentic KSB parts 
ensuring optimal performance and 
extended equipment life.
Trusted Across 
Industries
Whether it’s energy, chemicals, 
mining, water, or infrastructure KSB 
SupremeServ is built to meet the 
demands of critical 
industries
Listening to Our Customers – Driving Service Excellence
At KSB SupremeServ, customer feedback is a key to constant improvement. Our recent 
Customer Satisfaction Survey received positive responses, along with valuable insights to 
help us enhance service quality and responsiveness. Our commitment to Listening to our 
customers, Improving continuously and Delivering reliable, eﬃcient support.
Customer satisfaction isn’t a destination it’s a continuous journey.
Branch Oﬃces and Service Station 
1
KSB 
-Engineered for Reliable Services 
Mechanical Seals
Fair Pricing strategy
Promotes rational prices for Mechanical  
Seal & its spare parts
Spare & Repair Kits
Ready to dispatch kits for overhauling  
and repair of mechanical seals.
Global Support
Multi-national network to extend support  
anywhere and everywhere.
Single Point Contact
“KSB” a solution for mechanical seal,  
pump, valve and systems.
Application speciﬁc
Designs derived from application  
parameters, resulting in best suit.
Installation space
Zero modiﬁcation, Reliable, 
eﬃcient circulation & cost eﬀective
KSB Mechanical Seal Approval : 
A distinguished consulting ﬁrm in the general industry 
sector, has oﬃcially approved our KSB Mechanical Seal 
for use in their projects. Renowned for the excellence in 
engineering design, project management, and sustainable 
solutions, this endorsement marks a signiﬁcant milestone 
in our journey.
This recognition is a strong validation of the quality, 
reliability, and performance of our product. More 
importantly, it strengthens our reputation in the market 
and opens doors for collaborations with key industry 
stakeholders where the ﬁrm is a consultant.
           Sustainability & Service
The SupremServ Mechanical Seal is part of KSB’s commitment to sustainable and service-oriented 
solutions, reducing environmental impact through leak prevention, energy savings, and 
product longevity. Supported by KSB’s global SupremServ service network, customers beneﬁt from 
lifecycle support and expert technical assistance.
2
Proven in the Field: 
SupremServ Success Stories
KSB has acquired the technology of a renowned Indian 
pump manufacturer, strengthening our product range and 
supporting the Make in India initiative. We now oﬀer full-
service support for additional pump types, including 
centrifugal, reciprocating plunger, and mud pumps, 
enhancing 
our 
capabilities 
in 
spares, 
repairs, 
and 
maintenance.
KSB Enhances Product Portfolio with BP&CL Technology
Successful Testing of Reciprocating Pumps
Successful testing of our ﬁrst-ever reciprocating pumps for a major 
petrochemical project, marking a signiﬁcant technological milestone for KSB 
India. This achievement highlights our continued commitment to engineering 
excellence, product innovation, and customer-focused solutions.
The newly developed reciprocating pump models were manufactured and tested 
in-house, showcasing KSB’s expanding capabilities in high-performance pump 
solutions. 
Dispatch of the ﬁrst international order through our 
Express Line, marking a signiﬁcant achievement in our 
eﬀorts to enhance delivery eﬃciency and customer 
satisfaction.
The order, destined for a key customer in Northern 
Europe, required close coordination and meticulous 
micromanagement of every component involved. Our 
teams conducted regular vendor visits to ensure strict 
adherence to quality and delivery timelines.
First Express Line Dispatch 
Completion of a major high-pressure pump overhauling project at a key 
industrial site in Eastern India. The scope included the overhauling of 
multiple pumps, both from KSB and other manufacturers, delivered on a 
turnkey basis. Despite operating under challenging site conditions and 
within a tight project schedule, the service team demonstrated exceptional 
dedication and teamwork, ensuring that the project was completed on 
time and to the highest quality standards.
The timely and eﬃcient execution of this complex job further strengthens 
our capabilities in delivering comprehensive ﬁeld service solutions and 
reinforces our position as a trusted service partner for industrial clients.
Successful Execution of a Major Pump Overhauling Project
3
eSe
rv
m
-K
e
r
ey
p
 
s
M
u
S
i
t
le
l
sto
u
ne
s
s 
e
: T
R
r
 
an
o
s
t
fo
n
r
i
m
 
ls
ing
a
 Go
Completion of ﬁrst pump maintenance for ‘RSR350' at NPCIL Kaiga site
Secured signiﬁcant replacement pump orders for critical oil and gas application
Executed ﬁeld services for submarine pumps at SBC Vizag, NRW Vishakhapatnam
Replaced four FSL seals (Plan 23) with KSB-made seals in the HG4 pump at Wilmar Sugar 
Australia
Obtained approval for the KSB mechanical seal from M/S Desmet India
Completed the registration process with NTPC for HT motor rewinding services
Inauguration of the central warehouse extension
Diversity: First woman employee at KSB SupremeServ's Field Service engineering. Also team 
of women employees at central warehouse and repair center at KSB SupremeServ
Obtained approval for KSB Mechanical Seals from BHEL and M/S Tennova, a prominent 
name in the metal industry
Launched MEGA and MEGACHEM in end-to-end for streamlined spare parts ordering
4
Solar Success Story for KSB India conƟnued in 2024, and the 
company has made a signiﬁcant growth in the order intake as well 
as sales in this segment. This year we received 7000+ work orders, 
and 5900+ systems executed in the states of Maharashtra, UƩar 
Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Rajasthan. 
We are also now qualiﬁed in states of Tripura, Meghalaya and 
Madhya Pradesh. Along with development of Solar organizaƟon, 
focus on operaƟonal eﬃciency and establishing installer & Service 
network have been the key drivers of the growth in 2024.
The future of the solar pumping industry in India looks very 
promising. With the right combinaƟon of government incenƟves, 
technological advancements, and growing awareness about the 
beneﬁts of solar energy, the adopƟon of solar pumps is expected to 
rise signiﬁcantly in the coming years. This shiŌ not only oﬀers the 
economic and environmental beneﬁts but also contributes to the 
overall sustainability of the agriculture sector in India.
“KSB India’s 
 Journey: 
Solar
Empowering the Future of Agriculture in 2024”
7000+
Work Orders received...
5900+
5900+
5900+
Systems executed so far…
5
Engineering Precision for 
 Power Sector Applications
Nuclear
KSB India hosted a delegaƟon from Nuclear Power CorporaƟon of India 
Limited (NPCIL) at its Shirwal manufacturing facility. The visit included 
representaƟves from seven NPCIL plant locaƟons, as well as teams from 
Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai, and Indira Gandhi 
Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR), Kalpakkam. The day-long 
engagement featured a detailed shop ﬂoor tour, showcasing KSB’s 
technological advancements, modern infrastructure, and manufacturing 
excellence. The visiƟng teams appreciated the state-of-the-art equipment 
and robust processes implemented at the facility. The interacƟon 
provided an opportunity to highlight KSB India’s engineering capabiliƟes 
and address technical queries, further reinforcing the company’s role as a 
reliable partner in India’s nuclear energy journey.
Empowering Nuclear partnership - NPCIL Customer meet at KSB Shirwal
KSB Launches Prototype Reciprocating Pump for Fuel Handling Unit
As a part of KSB's conƟnued focus on supporƟng 
India's nuclear energy sector, a newly developed 
reciprocaƟng pump prototype was showcased during 
the year. This pump is intended to complement 
exisƟng installaƟons within nuclear faciliƟes and 
reﬂects KSB's commitment to providing reliable, 
high-performance soluƟons tailored to criƟcal 
applicaƟons. The successful development and 
internal validaƟon of this product mark an important 
step forward in expanding our specialized industrial 
applicaƟons.
KSB Strengthens Nuclear Power Pump Seal 
Testing with New Dynamic Testing Infrastructure
As a part of KSB's ongoing 
commitment to technological 
advancement in the nuclear 
power sector, a new Dynamic 
Test Facility was commissioned 
in 2024. This facility is designed 
for tesƟng mechanical seals 
used in primary coolant pumps 
for 
nuclear 
power 
sector 
applicaƟons. The inauguraƟon took place at KSB’s Shirwal plant, marking 
a signiﬁcant enhancement in our in-house tesƟng capabiliƟes. This 
development reinforces KSB’s focus on delivering reliable, high-quality 
components for criƟcal operaƟons in the nuclear power segment.
2018-19
2022
2023
2024
4,860
9,900
10,440
13,140
MINR
Cumulative 
Order Intake
5,040
540
2,700
Delivering Commitments...
6
Product development / updates: Bigger Size Valves 
SICCA GTC 34” #300
SICCA GTC 34” #150
SICCA GTC 26” #300
Valves Division Updates
KSB Limited’s Coimbatore Valves Division has installed a 700 kWp rooftop solar power system
(equivalent to planting 30,000+ trees or removing 
140+ cars from the road)
Approximately saving of `1.9 million energy 
costs per year
Generates 796 MWh of clean energy annually
Reduce 660 metric tons of Co  emissions each year 
2
The Valves Division has taken sustainability to new heights, marking a signiﬁcant step towards eco-
conscious innovation and responsible growth.The 700 kWp rooftop solar power system shows KSB’s 
commitment to reducing its environmental impact. By using solar energy, the division powers its 
operations while helping reduce reliance on traditional, non-renewable energy sources. This move 
supports global eﬀorts to ﬁght climate change in a practical way.
 Key Highlights:
KSB Coimbatore Achieves Prestigious TSG 
Certiﬁcation
KSB’s Valves Division has 
earned the TSG Certiﬁcation, 
a globally recognized mark of 
excellence in pressure 
equipment manufacturing. It 
reﬂects the division’s strong 
technical capabilities & 
commitment to the highest 
quality standards, opening 
n e w  o p p o r t u n i t i e s  i n 
international markets.
Valves Learning Centre: Building Skills, 
Sharing Knowledge
KSB Coimbatore’s Valves Learning Centre 
continues to foster hands-on learning and practical 
skill development through its Do-It-Yourself 
approach. In FY 2024 completed 
 
36 + Mandays
of training.
SICCA GTC 10” #2500 
PNUMATIC ACTUATOR
7
Agricultural & Domestic
PERIJET
KSTP
OPAL I
ULTRA
Commercial Building Services, Water & Waste Water 
MFMO V
SEWATEC
GAMMA IN STEEL
KRT (K35)
General Industrial
MAGACHEM SO
MOVITEC 
15/5 C
AU
ESTIGIA
ILN
8
Oil & Gas
De-salination, Mining, Railways
RPHv Additional
Sizes
WKTR Extended
Range
RPHd Additional
Sizes
RPH-RO
LCC Additional
Sizes
Etaseco
Advancing Innovation, Driving Excellence...
9
11
12
14
16
18
33
40
41
47
64
65
127
129
132
140
152
210
218
17
10
Mr. Gaurav Swarup
Chairman, 
Non Executive Director
Dr. Stephan Bross
Non Executive Director
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
Non Executive Director
Mr. Rajeev Jain
Managing Director
Mr. Dara N. Damania 
Non Executive - 
 Independent Director
th
Upto 30  September, 2024
Mr. Pradip Shah
Non Executive - 
Independent Director
th
Upto 30  September, 2024
Mr. V. K. Viswanathan 
Non Executive - 
Independent Director
th
Upto 15  January, 2025
Ms. Sharmila Barua 
Roychowdhury
Non Executive - 
Independent Director
Mr. Ulhas Yargop
Non Executive - 
Independent Director
st
From 1  October, 2024
Mr. Vishal Kampani
Non Executive - 
Independent Director
st
From 1  October, 2024
Mr. U.C. Muktibodh
Non Executive - 
Independent Director
th
From 16  January, 2025
11
“Dear Shareholders,
It is with great enthusiasm that I present to you our Annual Report for the year 2024, a year that has been 
deﬁned by resilience, transformation, and a steadfast commitment to the excellence. As we move into a 
new era of industrial growth, we continue to push the boundaries, embrace the cutting-edge technologies, 
and invest in the sustainable progress, ensuring that our company not only thrives in today's dynamic 
market but also leads the way for future generations. 
India continues to be one of the fastest growing major economies in the world, with GDP growth projected 
to reach 6.5%. This robust economic expansion is driven by infrastructure development, digital 
transformation, and a strong emphasis on domestic manufacturing under initiatives like “Make in India” 
and “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. 
The Indian manufacturing sector, contributing 
approximately 17% to the nation’s GDP, is undergoing a 
signiﬁcant transformation through technology 
innovations. These developments, coupled with 
government-backed Production Linked Incentive (PLI) 
schemes, are positioning India as a global manufacturing 
hub.  
At KSB, our culture is one of our most deﬁning strengths. As a part of KSB group, we are deeply committed 
to upholding a legacy of strong ethics, integrity and professionalism. Throughout the year, we have taken 
deliberate steps to reinforce this culture by ensuring robust governance frameworks and conducting 
regular compliance audits. Our zero-tolerance approach to ethical breaches remains a cornerstone of how 
we operate, and we continue to strengthen our systems to align with the highest standards of corporate 
conduct. 
As we advance towards 2030, our Group strategy continues to be ﬁrmly rooted in Technology & Quality 
Leadership, with a strong focus on sustainability and aftermarket services. These pillars form the 
foundation of our vision to drive long-term growth, operational excellence, and value creation for our 
stakeholders.  
Mr. Rajeev Jain
Managing Director
KSB Limited: A Future of Innovation, 
Growth and Sustainability 
MD's Foreward Message 
Our company is poised to capitalize on the 
opportunities, strengthening our market 
leadership and contribution to the nation's 
economic prosperity.
12
We have enhanced our product portfolio with cutting 
edge innovations that not only strengthen our market 
position but also reinforce our commitment to the 
technological advancement and sustainability driven 
solutions. 
The year 2024 year has been marked by signiﬁcant strides in 
government projects, water projects, power sector advancements, 
digital transformation, and sustainability initiatives. We could secure 
substantial orders under key government schemes, and we become the ﬁrst Indian manufacturer to supply 
an external ﬁreﬁghting system. 
Sustainability remains a key priority, with third party ESG 
certiﬁcations, zero waste initiatives, underlining our dedication to 
a cleaner and more sustainable future. Big milestone for which we 
are really proud to have won the 'ESG Champion of India 2024' 
Award at the Dun & Bradstreet ESG Leadership Summit 2024. 
At KSB, we continue to prioritise the safety, health, and well-being of our 
employees. In line with our vision of ‘Zero Accident and Zero Harm,’ we 
strive to maintain safe working environments through consistent 
adherence to safety practices and regulatory compliance. We are also 
taking steady steps to build a more diverse and inclusive workplace, where 
diﬀerent perspectives are valued and respected. 
As we conclude yet another remarkable year, I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude to all our 
stakeholders, employees, customers, suppliers, partners, and shareholders whose unwavering support and 
commitment have been instrumental in our success. I am conﬁdent that we will continue to grow, evolve, 
and set new benchmarks of excellence in everything we do. With your continued trust and collaboration, 
we look forward to scaling greater heights and shaping a future ﬁlled with endless possibilities.
 
”
Warm Regards, 
Rajeev Jain 
Managing Director, 
KSB Limited 
Our vision of ‘Zero Accidents and 
Zero Harm’ continues to demonstrate 
our safety-ﬁrst culture.
Sustainability, technology leadership, and 
aftermarket excellence remain central to our 
2030 growth strategy.
13
KSB Global Presence 
Everywhere You Need Us!
14
Serving India, Scaling Excellence
15
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.)
15th May, 2025
16
11.96
16.19
17.43
17.48
18.03
FY 2020
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
Return on net worth (%)
(Post sub-division of shares)
17
18
NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE is hereby given that the Sixty Fifth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of 
KSB LIMITED will be held on Thursday, 15th May, 2025 at 01.30 p.m. IST through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1. To receive, consider and adopt :
 
(a) the audited Standalone ﬁnancial statements of the Company for the ﬁnancial year ended 
31st December, 2024, together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditors thereon; and
 
(b) the audited Consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company for the ﬁnancial year 
ended 31st December, 2024, together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditors thereon.
2. To declare dividend on equity shares for the Financial Year 2024.
3. To appoint a Director in place of Dr. Matthias Schmitz (DIN: 07884418), who retires by 
rotation, and being eligible, oﬀers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
Explanatory Statement under Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), is annexed to 
the Notice for Special business.
4. To consider and, if thought ﬁt, to pass, with or without modiﬁcation, the following resolution 
as an ORDINARY RESOLUTION:
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the remuneration payable for the year ending 31st December, 2025 to M/s Dhananjay V. Joshi 
& Associates, Cost Accountants, Pune, (Firm Registration No. 000030), appointed by the 
Board of Directors of the Company, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, to 
conduct the audit of the Cost Records of the Company, amounting to ` 5,10,000 (Rupees Five 
Lakh Ten Thousand only) as also the payment of GST as applicable and reimbursement of out 
of pocket expenses incurred during the course of audit be and is hereby ratiﬁed and conﬁrmed;
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company be and is hereby 
authorized to perform and execute all such deeds, matters and things as may be deemed 
necessary or expedient to give eﬀect to this resolution and for the matters annexed therewith 
or incidental thereto.”
5. To consider and, if thought ﬁt, to pass the following Resolution as an ORDINARY 
RESOLUTION:  
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, read with the provisions of Section 204(1) of the 
19
NOTICE (Contd.)
Companies Act, 2013 along with the applicable Rules thereunder, and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee and Board of Directors of the Company, consent of the Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded for appointment of M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries 
(Firm Registration No. - P1996MH007500 and Peer review No. - 3686/2023) as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company, to hold oﬃce for a period of 5 (ﬁve) consecutive years 
commencing from the conclusion of 65th Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of the 
70th Annual General Meeting of the Company, who shall conduct Secretarial Audit of the 
Company from the Financial Year ended 31st December, 2025 to the ﬁnancial Year ended 
31st December, 2029 on such terms of remuneration, including revisions during the tenure, if 
any, as may be approved by the Board, based on the recommendation of Audit Committee; 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Managing Director, Chief Financial Oﬃcer and Company 
Secretary be and are hereby severally authorised to ﬁle necessary forms with Registrar of 
Companies and to do all such acts, deeds and things, as may be necessary, to give eﬀect to the 
above said resolution.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By Order of the Board
GAURAV SWARUP 
Chairman
KSB Limited 
Registered Oﬃce:
Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square,
L.B.S. Marg, Mulund (West), Mumbai- 400 080
Mumbai, 27th February, 2025
20
NOTICE (Contd.)
NOTES:
a. Pursuant to Circular No. 14/2020 dated 8th April 2020, Circular No. 17/2020 dated 13th 
April 2020, Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May 2020, Circular No. 21/2021 dated 14th 
December 2021, Circular No. 2/2022 dated 5th May 2022, Circular No. 10/2022 dated 28th 
December 2022, Circular No. 09/2023 dated 25th September 2023 and Circular No. 09/2024 
dated 19th September, 2024 (“MCA Circulars”), issued by Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs, 
Government of India (“MCA”) and Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/ 
2023/167 dated 7th October 2023 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated 
3rd October, 2024 (“SEBI Circular”) issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(“SEBI”) the 65th Annual General Meeting of the Members of the Company is being held 
through VC / OAVM which does not require physical presence of Members at a common 
venue. The proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Oﬃce 
of the Company which shall be deemed Venue of the AGM.
b. Since this AGM is being held through VC / OAVM, the facility for appointment of proxies by 
the Members will not be available for the AGM and hence the Proxy Form, Attendance Slip 
and Route map are not annexed to this Notice.
c. 
Members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of 
reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
d. Institutional / Corporate Members (i.e. other than individuals/HUF/NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy of Board Resolution authorizing their representative to attend the AGM 
through VC / OAVM on its behalf and to vote through remote E-voting to the Company's 
Registrar & Transfer Agent (“RTA”), MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd (formerly known as Link 
Intime India Pvt. Ltd) at https://liiplweb.linkintime.co.in/ rnthelpdesk/Service_Request.html  
e. 
The Company has ﬁxed Friday, 2nd May, 2025 as the “Record Date” for determining 
entitlement of Members to the dividend for the ﬁnancial year ended 31st December, 2024, if 
approved at the AGM. 
f. 
Dividend as recommended by the Board of Directors, if declared at the AGM, will be paid on 
or after 30th May, 2025 to those members whose names appear in the Register of Members at 
the close of the business hours on 2nd May, 2025 in respect of shares held by them in physical 
form and whose names appear in the statement of beneﬁcial ownership furnished by National 
Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited at the close of 
the business hours on 2nd May, 2025 in respect of shares held by them in dematerialised form.
 
Unclaimed Final Dividend for the ﬁnancial year ended 31st December, 2016 has been 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) after completion of seven 
years in accordance with Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013. Other unpaid dividends 
that are due for transfer are detailed below:
21
NOTICE (Contd.)
Dividend 
For the Financial 
Date of Payment 
 Tentative Date 
 
Year ended 
 
of  Transfer 
Final 
31st Dec’17 
16th May ’18 
15th May’25
Final 
31st Dec’18 
13th May’19 
12th May’26
Final 
31st Dec’19 
16th Oct’20 
15th Oct’27
Final 
31st Dec’20 
16th May’21 
15th May’28
Final 
31st Dec’21 
25th May’22 
24th May’29
Final 
31st Dec’22 
25th May’23 
24th May’30
Final 
31st Dec’23 
15th Jul’24 
14th Jul’31
 
Members who have not encashed their Dividend Warrants/Demand Drafts/Electronic 
Remittance pertaining to the earlier years may approach the Company's Registrar & Transfer 
Agent (“RTA”), MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd (formerly known as Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd)., 
at C 101, 247 Park, L B S Marg, Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400 083, for the same.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, all 
shares on which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more 
shall be transferred to an IEPF Account established by the Central Government, within 
prescribed time line. The Members whose shares/ unclaimed dividend have been transferred to 
the Fund may claim the shares or apply for refund by making an application to IEPF Authority 
in form IEPF 5 (available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with requisite fee as decided by the 
Authority from time to time. The details of the unclaimed dividends are available on the 
Company's website at www.ksbindia.co.in and on the website of Ministry of Corporate 
Aﬀairs at: www.mca.gov.in 
g. As per SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/ POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated 7th May, 
2024, SEBI has mandated that the security holders (holding securities in physical form), whose 
folio(s) do not have PAN or Choice of Nomination or Contact Details or Mobile Number or 
Bank Account Details or Specimen Signature updated, shall be eligible for any payment 
including dividend, interest or redemption in respect of such folios, only through electronic 
mode with eﬀect from 1st April, 2024.
 
i.  The relevant formats for Nomination and Updation of KYC details viz; Forms ISR-1, 
ISR2, ISR-3, SH-13, SH-14 and SEBI circular are available on the website of MUFG 
Intime India Private Limited (Formerly Known as Link Intime India Private Limited) 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/KYC-downloads.html   
 
ii. Original cancelled cheque leaf bearing the name of the ﬁrst holder failing which ﬁrst 
security holder is required to submit copy of bank passbook/statement attested by the 
bank which is mandatory for registering the new bank details.
 
In view of the above, we request you to submit the KYC Form, duly completed along with 
Investor Service Request Form ISR-1 and the required supporting documents as stated in Form 
ISR-1 at the earliest to MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly Known as Link Intime 
India Private Limited).
22
NOTICE (Contd.)
h. Members who hold equity shares in physical form and desirous of availing Electronic 
Clearance Scheme (ECS) facility for direct credit of dividend to their bank account, may 
submit their request to the Company's RTA. Any query related to dividend should be directed 
to RTA.
i. 
The information regarding the Director/s who is/are proposed to be appointed/re- appointed, 
as required to be provided under Listing Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on 
General Meetings, is annexed hereto.
j. 
In compliance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 the 
Notice of the 65th AGM of the Company along with the Annual Report for the year 2024 is 
being sent only through electronic mode to those Members whose email addresses are 
registered with their respective Depository Participants (“Dps”), Company or Company's 
RTA.  
 
Further, a letter providing the web-link, including the exact path, where complete details of the 
Annual Report is available is being sent to those shareholder(s) who have not so registered. 
 
Members may note that the Notice of the AGM and the Annual Report for the year 2024 will 
also be available on the Company's website at www.ksbindia.co.in, and also on the website of 
the Stock Exchanges where the shares of the Company have been listed viz., BSE Limited- 
www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Limited - www.nseindia.com. The 
Company will also publish a Public Notice by way of advertisement with the required details 
of 65th AGM, for information of the Members.
k. Members having more than one folio in identical names are requested to consolidate the same.
l. 
The Company has made necessary arrangements for the members to hold their shares in 
dematerialised form. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to dematerialise 
their shares by approaching any of the Dps.
m. All documents referred in the accompanying Notice and Statement setting out material facts 
will be available electronically for inspection for Members on all working days between 09.00 
a.m. IST to 11.00 a.m. IST upto Thursday, 15th May, 2025 being the date of the AGM. 
Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an email at: compsec.india@ksb.com
n. Instructions for Remote E-voting before AGM:
 
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of Act and Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 and the provisions of the Regulation 44 of the 
Listing Regulations, 2015, the members are provided with the facility to cast their vote 
electronically, through the remote e-voting services provided by MUFG Intime India Pvt. 
Ltd(formerly known as Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.), on all resolutions set forth in this Notice. 
As per the SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020, individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode can register directly with the depository or will have the option of accessing 
various ESP portals directly from their demat accounts.
 
The remote e-voting period commences on Monday, 12th May, 2025 at 9.00 a.m. IST and 
ends on Wednesday, 14th May, 2025 at 5.00 p.m. IST. During this period shareholders of the 
Company, holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on Friday, 9th 
May, 2025 (the cut-oﬀ date) may cast their vote electronically. The e-voting module shall be 
disabled for voting thereafter.
23
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion to their shares of the paid-up equity share 
capital of the Company as on Friday, 9th May, 2025. 
 
I. 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given 
below:
 
 
1. 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL
 
 
 
i. 
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL viz. 
https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a personal computer or on a mobile. On the e-
Services home page click on the "Beneﬁcial Owner" icon under "Login" which is 
available under 'IDeAS' section, this will prompt you to enter your existing User 
ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on "Access to e-Voting" under e-
Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name 
or e-Voting service provider name i.e. MUFG Intime and you will be re-directed 
to “InstaVote” website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
 
 
 
ii. If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, click : https://eservices.nsdl.com 
and select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click on https://eservices. 
nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp .
 
 
 
iii. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following 
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a 
mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon 
"Login" which is available under 'Shareholder/Member' section. A new screen 
will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen-digit demat 
account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Veriﬁcation Code as 
shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to 
NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider name i.e. MUFG Intime and you will be 
redirected to “InstaVote” website for casting your vote during the remote e-
Voting period.
 
 
2. 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with CDSL
 
 
 
i. 
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their 
existing user id and password. The option will be made available to reach e-Voting 
page without any further authentication. The users to login Easi/ Easiest are 
requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & 
New System Myeasi Tab and then use your existing my easi username & password.
 
 
 
ii. After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option 
for eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information 
provided by the company. On clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able 
to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider i.e. MUFG Intime for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to access 
the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting 
service providers' website directly.
24
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
 
 
iii. If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, the option to register is available at 
CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi 
Tab and then click on registration option.
 
 
 
iv. Alternatively, the user can directly access the e-Voting page by providing Demat 
Account Number and PAN No. from e-Voting link available on 
www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by 
sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. 
After successful authentication, the user will be able to see the e-Voting option 
where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all 
e-Voting Service Providers.
 
 
3. 
Individual Shareholders (holding securities in demat mode) login through their 
depository participants
 
 
 
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your 
Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. After 
Successful login, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting 
option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on the company name or 
e-Voting service provider name i.e. MUFG Intime and you will be redirected to 
e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period.
 
II. Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in physical form/ Non- 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
 
 
Individual Shareholders of the company, holding shares in physical form / Non- 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode as on the cut-oﬀ date for 
e- voting may register for e-Voting facility of MUFG Intime as under:
 
 
1. 
Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
 
 
2. 
Click on “Sign Up” under 'SHARE HOLDER' tab and register with your following 
details: -
 
 
 
A. User ID: Shareholders holding shares in physical form shall provide Event No + 
Folio Number registered with the Company. Shareholders holding shares in 
NSDL demat account shall provide 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client 
ID; Shareholders holding shares in CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit 
Beneﬁciary ID.
 
 
 
B. PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Shareholders 
who have not updated their PAN with the Depository Participant (DP)/ 
Company shall use the sequence number provided to you, if applicable.
 
 
 
C. DOB/DOI: Enter the Date of Birth (DOB) / Date of Incorporation (DOI) (As 
recorded with your DP / Company - in DD/MM/YYYY format)
 
 
 
D. Bank Account Number: Enter your Bank Account Number (last four digits), as 
recorded with your DP/Company.
 
 
 
Shareholders holding shares in physical form but have not recorded 'C' and 'D', shall 
provide their Folio number in 'D' above.
25
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
 
 
Shareholders holding shares in NSDL, shall provide details as per 'D' above.
 
 
 
Shareholders may set the password as per their choice containing minimum 8 
characters, at least one special Character (@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one 
alphabet and at least one capital letter.
 
 
 
Click “conﬁrm” (Your password is now generated).
 
 
3. 
Click on 'Login' under 'SHARE HOLDER' tab.
 
 
4. 
Enter your User ID, Password and Image Veriﬁcation (CAPTCHA) Code and click 
on 'Submit'.
 
III. Cast your vote electronically:
 
 
1. 
After successful login, you will be able to see the notiﬁcation for e-voting. Select 
'View' icon.
 
 
2. 
E-voting page will appear.
 
 
3. 
Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by selecting your desired option 
'Favour / Against' (If you wish to view the entire Resolution details, click on the 
'View Resolution' ﬁle link).
 
 
4. 
After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, click on 'Submit'. A 
conﬁrmation box will be displayed. If you wish to conﬁrm your vote, click on 'Yes', 
else to change your vote, click on 'No' and accordingly modify your vote.
 
IV. Guidelines for Institutional shareholders :
 
 
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are 
required to log on the e-voting system of MUFG at https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and 
register themselves as 'Custodian / Mutual Fund / Corporate Body'. Click on “Investor 
Mapping” tab under the Menu Section.
 
 
Map the Investor with the following details: 
 
 
1. 
Investor ID' – 
 
 
 
i. 
NSDL demat account – User ID is 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client 
ID i.e., In00000012345678
 
 
 
ii. CDSL demat account – User ID is 16 Digit Beneﬁciary ID.
 
 
2. 
Investor's Name - Enter Investor's Name as updated with DP. 
 
 
3. 
Investor PAN' - Enter your 10-digit PAN. 
 
 
4. 
Power of Attorney' - Attach Board resolution or Power of Attorney
 
 
 
*File Name for the Board resolution/ Power of Attorney shall be – DP ID and Client 
ID or 16 Digit Beneﬁciary ID. Further, Custodians and Mutual Funds shall also 
upload specimen signatures, as may be required. 
 
 
5. 
Click on Submit button. (The investor is now mapped with the Custodian / Corporate 
Body/ Mutual Fund Entity). The same can be viewed under the “Report Section”.  
 
V. 
Helpdesk for Individual shareholders holding securities in physical form/ Institutional 
shareholders:
 
 
Shareholders facing any technical issue in login may contact INSTAVOTE helpdesk by 
sending a request at enotices@in.mpms.mufg.com or contact on: - Tel: 022 – 4918 6000.
26
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
VI. Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
 
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode may contact the respective 
helpdesk for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e., NSDL and 
CDSL.
 
VII. Individual shareholders holding securities in physical form has forgotten the password:
 
 
If an Individual shareholder holding securities in physical form has forgotten the USER ID 
[Login ID] or Password or both then the shareholder can use the “Forgot Password” 
option available on the e-Voting website of MUFG Intime:https://instavote. 
linkintime.co.in
 
 
● 
Click on 'Login' under 'SHARE HOLDER' tab and further Click 'forgot password?’
 
 
● 
Enter User ID, select Mode and Enter Image Veriﬁcation code (CAPTCHA). Click on 
“SUBMIT”.
 
 
In case shareholder is having valid email address, Password will be sent to his / her 
registered e-mail address. Shareholders can set the password of his/her choice by 
providing the information about the particulars of the Security Question and Answer, 
PAN, DOB/DOI, Bank Account Number (last four digits) etc. as mentioned above. The 
password should contain a minimum of 8 characters, at least one special character 
(@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter.
 
 
User ID for Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form (i.e. Share Certiﬁcate): Your 
User ID is Event Number + Folio Number registered with the Company.
 
VIII. Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL/ CDSL has 
forgotten the password:
 
 
Shareholders who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User 
ID and Forget Password option available at abovementioned depository/ depository 
participants website.
 
 
i. 
It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and 
take utmost care to keep your password conﬁdential.
 
 
ii. 
For shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form, the details can be used 
only for voting on the resolutions contained in this Notice.
 
 
iii. During the voting period, shareholders/ members can login any number of time till 
they have voted on the resolution(s) for a particular “Event”.
 
 
Other e-voting Instructions
 
 
i. 
A person whose name is recorded in the Register of Members or in the Register of 
Beneﬁcial Owners maintained by the depositories as on the cut-oﬀ date only shall be 
entitled to avail the facility of remote e-voting and voting during the AGM.
Login type 
 
Helpdesk details 
 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL 
 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk 
by sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at : 022 - 4886 7000 
and 022 -
 
2499 7000
 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 
toll free no. 1800 22 55 33 
27
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
 
ii. 
Ms. Ashwini Inamdar (FCS No. 9409/CP No. 11226), Partner, M/s Mehta & Mehta, 
Company Secretaries has been appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting 
process (electronically or otherwise) in a fair and transparent manner.
 
 
iii. The results declared along with the Scrutinizer's Report will be submitted to BSE 
Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and placed 
on the Company's website at www.ksbindia.co.in within the prescribed time line 
from the 65th Annual General Meeting. 
 
 
iv. The contact details for Registrar and Transfer Agent: MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.), Tel. No.: 022 – 4918 6000. 
write at : rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
 
o. 
Instructions for Members to attend the AGM through (VC/OAVM):
 
 
Members are entitled to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM provided by RTA, MUFG 
Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.)., by 
following the below mentioned process:
 
 
i. 
Facility for joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall open 15 minutes before the 
time scheduled for the AGM and shall be kept open till the expiry of 15 minutes after 
the scheduled time on ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst basis.
 
 
ii. 
Members with >2% shareholding, Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, 
KMPs, Chair Persons of Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee and Auditors etc. may be allowed 
to the meeting without restrictions of ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst serve basis.
 
 
iii. Members will be provided with Insta Meet facility wherein they shall register their 
details and attend the AGM as under:
 
 
 
1. Open the internet browser and open the URL: https://instameet.in.mpms. 
mufg.com
 
 
 
2. Select the “Company” and “Event date” and register with your following details:
 
 
 
 
A. Demat Account No. or Folio No: Enter your 16-digit Demat Account No. or 
Folio No.
 
 
 
 
 
a. Members holding shares in CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit 
Beneﬁciary ID
 
 
 
 
 
b. Members holding shares in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 
Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
 
 
 
 
 
c. Members holding shares in physical form shall provide Folio Number 
registered with the Company
 
 
 
 
B. PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Members 
who have not updated their PAN with the Depository Participant (DP)/ 
Company shall use the sequence number provided to you, if applicable.
 
 
 
 
C. Mobile No.: Enter your mobile number.
 
 
 
 
D. Email ID: Enter your email id, as recorded with your DP/Company/RTA
28
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
 
 
3. Click “Go to Meeting”: You are now registered for InstaMeet and your 
attendance is marked for the meeting.
 
 
 
 
(Note: Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through Tablets/Laptops 
connected through broadband for better experience. Members are required to 
use Internet with a good speed (preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to avoid 
any disturbance during the meeting).
 
p. 
Instructions for Members to Vote during the AGM:
 
 
a. 
Only those Members, who are present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and 
have not cast their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-voting and are 
otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-voting system 
available during the AGM.
 
 
b. 
If any Votes are cast by the Members through the e-voting available during the AGM 
and if the same Members have not participated in the meeting through VC/OAVM 
facility, then the votes cast by such Members shall be considered invalid as the facility 
of e-voting during the meeting is available only to the Members attending the meeting.
 
 
c. 
Members who have voted through remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the 
AGM. However, they will not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
 
 
Once the electronic voting is activated by the scrutinizer during the AGM, shareholders/ 
members who have not exercised their vote through the remote e-voting can cast the vote 
as under:
 
 
i. 
On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link for e-Voting “Cast your vote.”
 
 
ii. 
Enter your 16-digit Demat Account No. / Folio No. and OTP (received on the 
registered mobile number/ registered email Id) received during registration for 
InstaMEET and click on 'Submit'.
 
 
iii. After successful login, you will see “Resolution Description” and against the same 
the option “Favour/ Against” for voting.
 
 
iv. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option i.e. “Favour/Against” as desired. 
Enter the number of shares (which represents no. of votes) as on the cut-oﬀ date 
under 'Favour/Against'.
 
 
v. 
After selecting the appropriate option i.e. Favour/Against as desired and you have 
decided to vote, click on “Save”. A conﬁrmation box will be displayed. If you wish to 
conﬁrm your vote, click on “Conﬁrm”, else to change your vote, click on “Back” and 
accordingly modify your vote.
 
 
vi. Once you conﬁrm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or 
change your vote subsequently.
 
q. 
Instructions for Members to Speak during the AGM:
 
 
i. 
Members who would like to express their views/ask questions during the meeting 
may register themselves as a speaker by sending their request on or before 5th May 
2025, mentioning their name, demat account number/folio number, e-mail ID, 
mobile number, questions to ask, if any, at: compsec.india@ksb.com 
 
 
ii. 
Only those Members who have registered themselves as a speaker will be allowed to 
express their views/ ask questions during the meeting.
29
 
 
iii. Members will get conﬁrmation on ﬁrst cum ﬁrst basis. First 10 Speakers registered 
with the Company will only be allowed to speak at the AGM for a duration upto 3 
minutes each.
 
 
iv. Members will receive “speaking serial number” once they mark attendance for the 
meeting.
 
 
v. 
Members are requested to speak only when moderator of the meeting/ management 
will announce the name and serial number for speaking.
 
 
vi. Please remember your speaking serial number and start your conversation with 
panelist by switching on video mode and audio of your device.
 
 
vii. Please note that the Company reserves the right to restrict the number of questions 
and number of speakers, depending upon availability of time as appropriate for 
smooth conduct of the AGM.
 
 
The Members who do not wish to speak during the AGM but have queries may send their 
queries in advance on or before 5th May, 2025 mentioning their name, demat account 
number/folio number, e-mail ID, mobile number at: compsec.india@ksb.com. These 
queries will be replied to by the Company suitably by e-mail.
 
 
For a smooth experience of viewing the AGM proceedings of MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.), InstaMEET, shareholders/ 
members who are registered as speakers for the event are requested to download and 
install the Webex application in advance.
 
 
Please download and install the Webex application by clicking on the link 
https://www.webex.com/downloads.html/
 
 
In case shareholders/members have any queries regarding login, they may send an e-mail 
to instameet@in.mpms.mufg.com or contact on: - Tel: 022 – 4918 6000 / 4918 6175.
 
r. 
Instructions for Income Tax compliances with respect to dividend:
 
 
i. 
The Finance Act, 2020 has abolished dividend distribution tax (DDT). Accordingly, 
eﬀective from 1st April, 2020, dividend income will be taxable in the hands of 
shareholders. Hence the Company is required to deduct tax at source (“TDS”) from 
the amount of dividend paid to shareholders at the prescribed rates. The detailed 
TDS rates and required documents for claiming non-deduction/lower deduction of 
TDS are uploaded in the website of the company at: www.ksbindia.co.in
 
 
ii. 
To avail the beneﬁt of non-deduction/lower deduction of TDS kindly submit the 
required documents by email to ksbdivtax@linkintime.co.in on or before 5th May 
2025:
 
 
 
or
 
 
 
The forms/documents (duly completed and signed) for claiming tax exemption are 
required to be uploaded on the url: https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/ 
formsreg/submission-of-form-15g-15h.html
 
 
 
– 
On this page the user shall be prompted to select / share the required information 
therein to register their request.
NOTICE (Contd.)
30
NOTICE (Contd.)
 
 
iii. The forms for tax exemption can be downloaded from MUFG Intime's website. The 
URL for the same is: https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/client-downloads.html
 
 
 
– 
On this page select the General tab. All the forms are available under the head 
“Form 15G/15H/10F”
 
 
iv. The upload of forms/documents (duly completed and signed) on the above-
mentioned URL of MUFG Intime India Private Ltd should be done on or before 5th 
May, 2025 to enable the Company to determine and deduct appropriate TDS / 
Withholding Tax.
 
 
v. 
Incomplete and/or unsigned forms and declarations will not be considered by the 
Company. No communication on the tax determination/ deduction shall be 
considered after 5th May, 2025.
 
 
vi. In terms of the MCA and SEBI circular, in case the Company is unable to pay the 
dividend to any share holder by electronic mode due to non-availability of the details 
of their bank account, the Company will dispatch the Dividend Warrants/Demand 
Drafts to such shareholders by post.
 
 
vii. All communications/ queries in this respect should be addressed to our RTA, MUFG 
Intime India Private Limited to: ksbdivtax@linkintime.co.in
31
NOTICE (Contd.)
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 102 OF 
THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
BUSINESS 4:
The Board of Directors of the Company, on the recommendation of its Audit Committee, has 
approved the appointment of M/s Dhananjay V. Joshi & Associates, Cost Accountants, Pune, as 
the Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for the ﬁnancial year 
ending 31st December, 2025. In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the remuneration payable 
to the Cost Auditors has to be ratiﬁed by the members of the Company. Accordingly, consent of the 
members is sought by way of an Ordinary Resolution as set out at Business No. 4 of the Notice for 
ratiﬁcation of the remuneration amounting to ` 5,10,000 plus applicable GST and out-of pocket 
expenses incurred by them in connection with the aforesaid audit.
The Directors recommend the resolution as an Ordinary Resolution for approval.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives are in any 
way, concerned or interested, ﬁnancially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
BUSINESS 5:
The Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its meeting held 
on 27th February, 2025, has recommended the appointment of M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company 
Secretaries (Firm Registration No. - P1996MH007500 and Peer review No. - 3686/2023), as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company, in accordance with the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, for a term of 5 (Five) consecutive years starting from the 
conclusion of this 65th Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of the 70th Annual General 
Meeting, subject to approval of the Members at this Annual General Meeting, shall conduct 
Secretarial Audit of the Company from the Financial Year ended 31st December, 2025 to the 
Financial Year ended 31st December, 2029. 
M/s Mehta & Mehta, has provided their consent to act the as Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
for the proposed period of appointment. They have further conﬁrmed their eligibility, 
qualiﬁcations and conﬁrmation on non-disqualiﬁcation referred to in Regulation 24A of SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015.
The details required to be disclosed under provisions of Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are as under:
It is proposed that the remuneration to be paid to the Secretarial Auditors for issuing the Secretarial 
Audit Report and other reports, certiﬁcates or opinions, and for other prescribed services 
rendered, shall be determined from time to time, by the Board based on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee. In addition to the remuneration, the Secretarial Auditors shall be entitled to 
receive the out-of-pocket expenses as may be incurred by them during the course of the Audit or 
issuance of any other certiﬁcate, report, opinion, prescribed approved services. The consent and 
Peer Review Certiﬁcate received from M/s Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries and the letter of 
engagement inter-alia containing the terms of engagement including remuneration, shall be 
available for inspection by the members in electronic form up to the date of Annual General 
Meeting. The members seeking to inspect these documents may send an email request at : 
compsec.india@ksb.com
Information pursuant to Regulation 36(5) of SEBI Listing Regulations, is as following:
32
Name of the Director  
Dr. Matthias Schmitz
Director Identiﬁcation Number  
07884418
Date of Birth (Age) 
15th November, 1963
Date of appointment  
25th July, 2017
Qualiﬁcations  
Doctorate, Engineering and Business 
Administration 
Experience (including expertise in speciﬁc functional area)    
Vast experience in the engineering 
industry
Directorships held in other Companies in India excluding  
Nil
Directorship in Private and Section 8 companies   
Chairmanship / Membership of Committees held  in other  
Nil
Companies in India excluding Private and Section 8 companies  
Listed entities from which the person has resigned in 
Nil 
the past three years 
Relationship with other Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Nil
No. of Equity shares held in the Company, including  
Nil
shareholding as a beneﬁcial owner 
No. of Board meetings attended during last  
4 (Four)
Financial Year  
Details of Remuneration Sitting fees and commission  
Sitting fees and commission
paid/ sought to be paid 
Terms and Conditions of appointment 
Non-Executive Director (Non-
Independent), liable to retire by 
rotation.
The skills and capabilities required for the role and the manner in  Not Applicable 
which the proposed person meets such requirements (Applicable 
to Independent Director)
NOTICE (Contd.)
Notes on Director/s seeking appointment/re-appointment
As required under Listing Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standards on General Meetings, 
particulars of Director/s who is/are to be appointed/re-appointed are given below:
Terms of appointment
 
M/s Mehta & Mehta, is proposed to be appointed as secretarial auditors for a
term of ﬁve years, commencing from the 65th Annual General Meeting to the
70th Annual General Meeting of the Company to conduct secretarial audit 
from FY 2025 to FY 2029.
  
Material change in fee 
payable
 
NA
 
Basis
 
of 
recommendation and 
auditor credentials
 
The recommendation is based on the fulﬁlment of the eligibility criteria & 
qualiﬁcation prescribed under the Act & Rules made thereunder and SEBI 
Listing Regulations with regard to the full time partners, secretarial audit, 
experience of the ﬁrm, capability, independent assessment, audit experience 
and also based on the evaluation of the quality of audit work done in 
the past. 
Brief Proﬁle of the 
Auditors
  
M/s Mehta & Mehta is founded for more than 25 years by Mr. Atul Mehta 
and Ms. Dipti Mehta.
  
The ﬁrm provides legal and secretarial consultancy 
covering varied areas of the corporate ﬁeld and other related areas
The Directors recommend the resolution as an Ordinary Resolution for approval.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives are in any 
way, concerned or interested, ﬁnancially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
33
BOARD’S REPORT
To
 The Shareholders,
The Board of Directors has pleasure to submit the report and audited ﬁnancial statements of the 
Company for the year ended 31st December, 2024.
1. Financial Performance (Standalone):
` Million 
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
December 31, 2024  
 
December 31, 2023
Revenue from operations and Other Income 
25,745.78 
22,835.07
Proﬁt before tax 
3,219.90 
2,748.77
Income tax expense
Current 
815.07 
721.62
Deferred tax 
(4.19) 
(18.98)
Total tax expense 
810.88 
702.64
Proﬁt for the year 
2,409.02 
2,046.13
Other comprehensive income 
(27.48) 
23.75
Total comprehensive income 
2,381.54 
2,069.88
Appropriations:
Opening balance of retained earnings 
11,041.83 
9,494.07
Proﬁt for the year 
2,409.02 
2,046.13
Dividend paid (including tax thereon) 
(609.14) 
(522.12)
Other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings 
(27.48) 
23.75
Total retained earnings 
12,814.23 
11,041.83
EPS* 
13.84 
11.76
*EPS is post sub-division of shares during FY 2024 in the ratio 1:5. 
2.  Dividend
 
The Board of Directors propose a dividend of  ` 4.00 per share of  ` 2.00 each (200 %).
 
Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company as required under Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“Listing Regulations, 2015”) is available on the Company's website at: www.ksbindia.co.in
3.  Share Capital
 
During the year under review, there was no change in the share capital of the Company.
 
In order to encourage wider participation of investors and improve the liquidity of the equity 
shares of the Company, the Board of Directors and the shareholders of the Company had 
approved the Sub-division(split) of 1 (One) equity share of nominal value (face value) of 
` 10.00 (INR Ten Only) each into 5 (Five) equity shares of face value of  ` 2.00 (INR Two 
only) each, with eﬀect from the record date 25th July, 2024. 
4.  Alteration of 'Capital Clause' of Memorandum of Association  
 
Pursuant to the Sub-division of nominal value (face value) of equity shares of the Company 
during the year, the Board and the shareholders have approved alteration of the Capital 
Clause of the Memorandum of Association of the Company and substituted with a new 
clause to reﬂect the corresponding changes.
34
BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
5.  Transfer to reserves  
 
The Company does not propose to transfer any amounts to its reserves for year under review. 
6.  General review and performance 
 
The Financial Year 2024 has been another year of strong performance, driven by strategic 
growth initiatives, operational excellence, and technological advancements. Despite industry 
challenges, the Company could successfully achieve the operational synergy and ﬁnancial 
growth, reinforcing its position in key market segments.
 
A signiﬁcant milestone this year has been securing major orders across critical sectors, 
resulting in further strengthening of our market leadership. The Company's Solar and Green 
Hydrogen segments continue to expand, supported by an enhanced product portfolio and 
new technology-driven oﬀerings. Our digital transformation journey continues, with new 
automation solutions improving both internal eﬃciencies and customer engagement.
 
Despite a dynamic business environment, the Company remains resilient and future-ready, 
committed to innovation, sustainability and continuous growth in the years ahead. 
 
Export increased by ` 501.14 Million from ` 2,999.08 Million last year to ` 3,500.22 Million 
during the year. 
 
The Company continues with its eﬀorts to maintain growth even during the continued 
challenges.
7.  Credit Rating
 
Reaﬃrmation for the Long Term rating (Fund based) [ICRA] AA+ (stable) and Short Term 
Rating [ICRA] A1+ assigned for the Line of Credit of the Company continues during the year 
2024. This reaﬃrms the high reputation and the trust Company has earned for its sound 
ﬁnancial management and its ability to meet ﬁnancial obligations. Below Credit Ratings are 
obtained during past 3 years:
 
Year 
Amount ( ` in Million) 
Rating
 
2024 
25,000.00 
Long Term AA+, Short Term A1+
 
2023 
25,000.00 
Long Term AA+, Short Term A1+
 
2022 
25,000.00 
Long Term AA+, Short Term A1+
 
The Company does not have any debt instruments, ﬁxed deposit program or any scheme for 
mobilization of funds and accordingly it has not obtained any credit ratings during the 
ﬁnancial year for these purposes.
8.  Fixed Deposits
 
The Company has not accepted any ﬁxed deposits.
9.  Transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”)
 
During the year, in accordance with section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) an 
amount of INR 592,452 being unclaimed dividends up to the year 31st December, 2016, 
were transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund established by the Central 
Government.
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), as amended, the 
35
BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
shares on which dividend remains unpaid / unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more 
shall be transferred to the Investor's Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). Accordingly, 
during the year Company has transferred 2,497 equity shares to the IEPF. The details of 
equity shares transferred are available on the Company's website at: www.ksbindia.co.in
10. Equity Shares in the Unclaimed Suspense Account / Suspense Escrow Demat Account
 
There are 320 shares lying in the Suspense Escrow Demat Account. There are no shares in the 
Unclaimed Suspense Account.
11. Subsidiary and Associate
 
The Company has 1 subsidiary, viz. Pofran Sales and Agency Limited and 1 associate, viz. 
KSB MIL Controls Limited as on 31st December, 2024.
 
In accordance with Section 129 (3) of the Act and Regulation 34 of Listing Regulations, 
2015, the audited consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company form part of the Annual 
Report. A statement containing salient features of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company's 
subsidiary and associate is annexed to this Report in prescribed form AOC-1 as Annexure I.
 
The audited ﬁnancial statements of Pofran Sales and Agency Limited for the year ended 31st 
March, 2025 have been placed on the website of the Company viz. www.ksbindia.co.in and 
are available for inspection at the registered oﬃce of the Company. The Company will also 
make available these documents electronically upon request by any member of the Company 
interested in obtaining the same.
 
Refer Notes to the Financial Statements forming part of this Annual Report for additional 
information. 
12. Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
 
Annexed to this report as Annexure II. 
13.  Report on Corporate Governance Report
 
Annexed to this Report along with certiﬁcate thereon as Annexure III.
14. Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
 
Annexed to this report as Annexure V. 
15. Annual Return 
 
In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Annual Return of the Company for the year 
ended 2024 is hosted on website of the Company at : www.ksbindia.co.in
16. Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties
 
Contracts or arrangements with related parties referred to under Section 188 of the Act, 
entered into during the ﬁnancial year, were on an arm's length basis. No material contracts or 
arrangements with related parties were entered into during the year under review. 
Accordingly, no transactions are being reported in form AOC- 2 in terms of section 134 of 
the Act.
17. Disclosure under Regulation 34(3) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 
 
There are no loans and advances in the nature of loans to subsidiary/associate/ 
ﬁrms/Companies in which Directors are interested.
36
BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
18. Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments 
 
The Company has not granted any loans, guarantees and investments covered under section 
186 of the Act during the year.
19. Vigil mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy 
 
The Company has established a vigil mechanism to provide avenues to the stakeholders to 
bring to the attention of the management, the concerns about behaviour of employees that 
raise concerns including fraud by using the mechanism provided in the Whistle Blower 
Policy. The details of the said policy are included in the report on Corporate Governance.
20. Risk management 
 
The Company has laid down procedures and informed the Board members about the risk 
assessment and minimization procedures. These procedures are periodically reviewed to 
ensure that executive management controls risk through means of a properly deﬁned 
framework. The Risk Management Committee monitors the risks and their mitigation 
actions.
21. Signiﬁcant and material orders passed by the regulations or courts
 
There is no signiﬁcant or material order passed during the year by any regulators, courts or 
tribunals impacting the going concern status of the Company or its future operations. The 
Company has not ﬁled any application or no proceeding is pending against the Company 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, during the year under review.
22. Material changes and commitments aﬀecting the ﬁnancial position of the Company 
 
There have been no material changes and commitments aﬀecting the ﬁnancial position of the 
Company which have occurred between the end of the ﬁnancial year of the Company to 
which the ﬁnancial statements relate and the date of this report.
23. Policy on prevention, prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment of women at workplace 
 
The Company has complied with provisions relating to the constitution of Internal 
Complaints Committee under the Sexual Harassment of women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder, to redress complaints 
received regarding sexual harassment. The Company has in place a policy in line with the 
requirements of the said Act. During the year, nil complaint with allegations of sexual 
harassment was received by the Company.
24. Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz (DIN: 07884418) retires by rotation and is eligible for re-appointment. 
The Board recommends the re-appointment.
 
During the year, two Non-Executive and Independent Directors Mr. Dara N. Damania (DIN: 
00403834) and Mr. Pradip Shah (DIN: 00066242) ceased to be Directors on the Board of 
Directors of the Company from the close of the business hours on 30th September, 2024 after 
serving 2 consecutive terms of 5 years each. Mr. V. K. Viswanathan (DIN: 01782934) , Non-
Executive and Independent Director also ceased to be a Director on the Board of Directors of 
the Company from close of business hours on 15th January, 2025 after serving 2 consecutive 
terms of 5 years each.   
 
The Board of Directors, on recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and approval of shareholders through postal ballot, appointed Mr. Ulhas Yargop 
37
BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
(DIN: 00054530) and Mr. Vishal Kampani (DIN: 00009079) as Non-Executive and 
Independent Directors eﬀective from 1st October, 2024 and Mr. U. C. Muktibodh (DIN: 
06558392) as Non-Executive and Independent Director with eﬀect from 16th January, 2025 
for a term of 5 years respectively.
 
There are no changes in the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company during the year.
25. Declarations by Independent Directors
 
The Independent Directors have given a declaration to the Company that they meet the 
criteria of independence as per Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 25 of the Listing 
Regulations, 2015.
 
The Board of Directors acknowledges the integrity, expertise, and experience of the 
Independent Directors on the Board. 
26. Board Meetings
 
During the year ended 31st December, 2024, four meetings of the Board were held. The 
details of the attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings are mentioned in the report on 
Corporate Governance annexed hereto.
27. Policy on Directors' appointment and remuneration 
 
The policy on Director's appointment and remuneration including criteria for determining 
qualiﬁcations, positive attributes, independence of Director, and other matters forms part of 
report on Corporate Governance. The detailed policy is available on the Company's website 
at: www.ksbindia.co.in
28. Evaluation of Board of Directors 
 
The details of the annual evaluation of Board, its Committees and individual Directors are 
mentioned in the report on Corporate Governance.
29. Board Committees
 
The Company has ﬁve Committees of Board, viz,
 
1. 
Audit Committee
 
2. 
Stakeholders' Relationship Committee
 
3. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
 
4. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
 
5. 
Risk Management Committee
 
Details of all the Committees along with their composition, terms of reference and meetings 
held during the year are provided in report on Corporate Governance.
30. Directors' responsibility statement 
 
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of Directors report that:
 
a. 
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards had been 
followed along with proper explanation relating to material departures;
 
b. 
they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair 
view of the state of aﬀairs of the Company at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the 
proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period;
38
 
c. 
proper and suﬃcient care has been taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
 
d. 
they have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis;
 
e. 
proper internal ﬁnancial controls are in place and that such internal ﬁnancial controls 
are adequate and are operating eﬀectively; and
 
f. 
systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws were in place and 
that such systems were adequate and operating eﬀectively.
31. Particulars of employees and related information
 
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement 
containing the disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details as required under the 
Act and the above Rules are provided in the Annual Report. The disclosures as speciﬁed 
under Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, is annexed to this Report as Annexure IV.
 
The information regarding employee remuneration as required pursuant to Rule 5(2) and 
Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, will be available electronically for inspection by members on all working days 
(Monday to Friday) between 09.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. upto Thursday, 15th May, 2025, 
being the date of the 65th AGM. Any member interested in obtaining such information may 
write to the Company Secretary and the same will be furnished electronically on such request.
32. Statutory Auditors 
 
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act and Rules thereunder, M/s Price Waterhouse 
Chartered Accountants LLP (Firm Registration No. 012754N/ N500016) were appointed as 
Statutory Auditors of the Company for a term of ﬁve years, to hold oﬃce from the conclusion 
of 62nd Annual General Meeting, until the conclusion of 67th Annual General Meeting. 
Aﬃrmation from Statutory Auditors has been received to the eﬀect that their appointment as 
Statutory Auditors of the Company, continues to be according to the terms and conditions 
prescribed under Section 139 of the Act and Rules framed there under.
 
The Auditors' Report for the ﬁnancial year 2024 does not contain any qualiﬁcation, 
reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer. The Statutory Auditors have not reported any 
incident of fraud to the Audit Committee of the Company during the ﬁnancial year 2024.
33. Cost Auditors
 
Maintenance of cost records as speciﬁed by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of 
section 148 of the Act, 2013, is required by the Company and accordingly such accounts and 
records are prepared and maintained. Pursuant to Section 148, the Board on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee has re-appointed M/s Dhananjay V. Joshi and 
Associates, Cost Accountants, Pune as Cost Auditors to carry out the audit of Cost Accounts 
of the Company for the ﬁnancial year 2025 at a remuneration as mentioned in the Notice 
convening the 65th Annual General Meeting and the same is recommended for your 
consideration and ratiﬁcation. The Cost Audit Report for ﬁnancial year 2023 which was due 
to be ﬁled with the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs before 29th June, 2024, was ﬁled on 24th 
May, 2024 and it did not contain any qualiﬁcation, reservation, adverse remark or 
disclaimer.
BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
39
34. Secretarial Auditors
 
Pursuant to provisions of Section 204 of the Act and Rules thereunder, the Secretarial Audit 
Report for ﬁnancial year 2024 issued by Secretarial Auditors, M/s Mehta & Mehta, 
Company Secretaries is annexed to this report as Annexure VII and it does not contain any 
qualiﬁcation, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer. 
 
Pursuant to SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 it is proposed to appoint M/s Mehta and Mehta 
Associates (Firm Reg. No. P1996MH007500), as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
for a term of 5 years to conduct the annual secretarial audit, commencing from the 65th 
Annual General Meeting to the 70th Annual General Meeting subject to approval of 
Shareholders by way of Ordinary resolution as proposed in the Notice of 65th Annual 
General Meeting. 
35. Secretarial Standards 
 
During the year under review, the Company has complied with applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of the Company Secretaries of India.
36. Conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo 
 
Information as required to be given under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read with Rule 8(3) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is furnished in the annexure to this report as 
Annexure VI.
37. Corporate Social responsibility (''CSR”)
 
The composition of the CSR Committee, CSR Policy and other required details are given in 
the Annual Report on CSR Activities annexed to this Report as Annexure VIII.
38. Details of diﬀerence between amount of the valuation done at the time of one-time settlement 
and the valuation done while taking loan from the banks or ﬁnancial institutions along with 
the reasons thereof
 
The Company has not made any one-time settlement with the banks or ﬁnancial institutions, 
therefore, the same is not applicable.
39. Proceeding under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
 
The Company has not ﬁled any application or no proceeding is pending against the Company 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, during the year under review.
40. Acknowledgements 
 
The Board of Directors are grateful to Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., the main shareholder, and to 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Germany, the Company's collaborators, for their valuable assistance 
and support. They wish to record their appreciation for the co-operation and support of the 
Company's shareholders, bankers and all employees including the workers, staﬀ and 
management and all others concerned with the Company's business.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
GAURAV SWARUP
       Mumbai, 27th February, 2025 
Chairman
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
40
Name of the associate
 
The date on which associate was associated / acquired
 
Latest audited Balance Sheet date
 
Number of shares of associate held by the 
company on the year end
 
Amount of investment in associate
 
Extent of holding %
 
Description of how there is signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
Reason why the associate is not consolidated 
Networth attributable to shareholding as per 
latest audited Balance Sheet
 
Proﬁt / Loss for the year
 
i. Considered in consolidation
 
ii. Not Considered in consolidation
Ownersh
KSB MIL Controls Limited
24th October, 1997
31st December, 2024
7,35,000
62.65
49%
ip of 20% or more of the voting power
Ownership of not more than 50% of the
voting Power and no control over the Board
853.70
273.55
134.06
139.53
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT 
ANNEXURE I TO BOARD’S REPORT
Statement containing salient features of the ﬁnancial statement of subsidiaries/associate 
companies as per Section 129 (3) and Rules thereunder
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
` Million
*The consolidation is based on the unaudited ﬁnancial information for the period ended as on 
31st December, 2024 of the subsidiary.
` Million
FORM NO. AOC–1
Part “B”: Associate
 
 
 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop
 
Chairman 
Director
 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530)
 
Rajeev Jain 
Mahesh Bhave
 
Managing Director 
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
 (DIN : 07475640)
 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
 
Date : 27th February, 2025 
Company Secretary 
Pofran Sales and Agency Limited
7th January, 2005
1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025*
`
0.50
1.14
1.74
0.10
-
NIL
(0.05)
0.00
(0.05)
-
Name of the subsidiary
 
The date since when subsidiary was acquired
 
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if diﬀerent 
from the holding company’s reporting 
Reporting currency and Exchange rate 
Share capital
 
Reserves & Surplus
 
Total Assets
 
Total Liabilities
 
Investments
 
Turnover
 
Proﬁt / (Loss) before taxation
 
Provision for taxation
 
Proﬁt / (Loss) after taxation
 
Proposed Dividend
 
% of shareholding
100
Note : Refer Notes to the Financial Statements forming part of this Annual Report for additional information. 
41
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
ANNEXURE II TO BOARD’S REPORT
INTRODUCTION
The Company is engaged in the business of manufacture of power-driven pumps and industrial 
valves. Castings are mainly produced for captive consumption. 
INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT: 
General: 
Global Macro-Economic Outlook 
As we progress through 2025, the global economic environment remains complex and multifaceted. 
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects global GDP growth to stabilize at 3.3% for both 
2025 and 2026, consistent with previous forecasts. Inﬂationary pressures are gradually easing, with 
global inﬂation expected to decline to 4.4% in 2025, down from 5.8% in 2024. 
India continues to be a signiﬁcant contributor to global growth. The IMF's January 2025 World 
Economic Outlook Update projects India's real GDP growth at 6.5% for 2025, underscoring the 
country's economic resilience and growth potential. 
Despite these positive indicators, several challenges persist. Geopolitical tensions, particularly in 
Eastern Europe, ongoing supply chain disruptions, and potential energy market volatility pose 
risks to the global economic landscape. Additionally, the gradual withdrawal of ﬁscal support in 
high-debt economies and the potential for renewed inﬂationary pressures could impact ﬁnancial 
stability and growth prospects.
Indian Economy: 
Despite ongoing global challenges, India's economy continues to demonstrate resilience, driven 
primarily by robust domestic demand. Inﬂation is expected to stabilize within the Reserve Bank of 
India's target range of 4% to 6%, supporting economic stability. The government's strategic 
investments in infrastructure and initiatives like the Production-Linked Incentives (PLI) scheme 
continue to foster growth by encouraging private investment and bolstering domestic 
manufacturing. The 'Make in India' initiative remains pivotal in promoting self-reliance and 
enhancing the manufacturing sector's competitiveness, which is poised to beneﬁt from an 
improving investment climate. While global economic headwinds may impact exports, strong 
domestic demand is expected to sustain momentum in the service sector. Additionally, India's 
manufacturing sector is set to play a crucial role in the country's economic future, with its 
contribution to Gross Value Added (GVA) projected to rise signiﬁcantly by 2032.
Pumps and Valves Industries: 
The Indian pumps and valves industries are poised to capitalize on the country's robust economic 
growth and the government's strategic focus on infrastructure development. In 2024, increased 
investments in irrigation, water supply, sanitation, and urban housing projects have signiﬁcantly 
boosted demand for pumps in the water segment. The government's commitment is evident 
through a substantial capital expenditure allocation of `11 lakh crore for the ﬁscal year, aiming to 
enhance the nation's infrastructure landscape.
Market projections indicate that the Indian industrial pumps market is expected to reach USD 1.23 
billion by 2030, growing at a CAGR of 4.80% from 2025 to 2030. Similarly, the industrial valves 
market is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of greater than 7%, reaching USD 3.62 billion by 2030.
Sustainability continues to be a pivotal focus, with technological advancements leading to the 
development of more energy-eﬃcient and environmentally friendly pumps and valves. Innovations 
in materials and manufacturing processes have resulted in submersible pumps that are stronger, 
lighter, and more corrosion-resistant, enhancing overall performance and reliability.
42
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT (Contd.)
OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS 
The resilient economic outlook, driven by robust consumption demand, presents a mix of 
opportunities for our company. We are witnessing an ever-expanding demand for our pumps and 
valves, and we are well-positioned to capitalize on this trend. Our strategic expansion plans, including 
entry into untapped geographies and a focused market approach, will further strengthen our market 
presence. Identifying emerging opportunities and diversifying our product oﬀerings into new market 
segments, such as hydrogen, ﬁreﬁghting, and railways, will unlock further growth potential. 
Additionally, our dedication to the aftermarket segment, through readily available spares and on-
demand service, fosters long-term customer relationships and opens up valuable revenue streams.
In 2024, the Indian government's initiatives, such as the Jal Jeevan Mission and the PM KUSUM 
scheme, have created new opportunities for the adoption of solar pumps and water management 
systems. Moreover, the growing emphasis on sustainability and energy eﬃciency has led to 
increased demand for eco-friendly pumps and valves, aligning with our strategic focus on 
innovation and environmental stewardship. Our investments in automation and digital solutions 
will enhance operational eﬃciency and cost competitiveness, enabling us to navigate the evolving 
market dynamics eﬀectively.
However, we remain vigilant of potential threats such as volatile commodity prices, intensifying 
competition, and a possible slowdown in exports. Increased emphasis on product life cycle cost 
and customer expectations for reduced development time are also mounting pressure to create an 
ecosystem for sustainable developments. Furthermore, geopolitical tensions and supply chain 
disruptions pose risks to global economic stability. As a company, we are prepared to mitigate 
these risks through sound strategies, including resource allocation, capacity expansion, and 
strategic partnerships. By leveraging our established strengths, embracing technological 
advancements, and adapting to the evolving market dynamics, we are conﬁdent in continuing our 
successful growth trajectory and solidifying our position as a leading player in the industry.
SEGMENT WISE PERFORMANCE (Consolidated): 
During the year under review, pumps and related spares worth ` 21,081 Million (Previous year 
`18,968 Million) and valves and related spares worth `4,250 Million (Previous year 
` 3,504 Million) were sold. Out of the above, export of pumps, valves and their spares in terms of 
value were ` 3,500 Million (Previous year ` 2,999 Million).
OUTLOOK:
Company's outlook for 2025 remains positive as we are on the growing path and have registered 
signiﬁcant growth from past 5 years. Our strategic initiatives to expand into new market segments 
like Railways and Fireﬁghting, alongside continued innovation in energy-eﬃcient solutions, will 
help us stay ahead on our growth curve. Strengthening domestic presence with expanding our 
distribution network and service infrastructure will further solidify our market position and improve 
customer reach. While acknowledging the global slowdown, we expect slower growth in our export. 
RISKS AND CONCERNS THE MANAGEMENT PERCEIVE: 
While the 2025 outlook remains promising, potential headwinds such as geopolitical tensions, 
global inﬂation, and rising interest rates could impact growth, aﬀecting exports and domestic 
demand. A slowdown in private sector investments may also inﬂuence key industries like 
agriculture, infrastructure, and manufacturing.
To mitigate these risks, we are diversifying into emerging segments like hydrogen and renewable 
energy, strengthening our supply chain through strategic partnerships, and expanding our 
domestic presence. Investments in automation and digital solutions will further enhance eﬃciency 
and competitiveness.
43
With an agile approach and strong risk management, we are conﬁdent in navigating challenges, 
driving sustainable growth, and reinforcing our leadership in the pumps and valves industry.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND THEIR ADEQUACY: 
Internal control systems are implemented – 
• To Protect Assets and Optimizing Controls: 
 
Our commitment to eﬀective internal control systems remained unyielding in 2024. These 
systems safeguard our assets, optimize costs, and ensure reliable ﬁnancial reporting, all while 
adapting to evolving business landscapes, regulatory changes, and best practices. 
• To keep constant check on Core Control Areas: 
 
For Asset Safeguarding we maintain comprehensive physical and electronic security measures, 
including regular inventory reconciliations, access control systems, and data encryption, to 
prevent asset loss or compromise. 
 
For Cost Management we have robust systems monitoring and manage expenditures, utilizing 
budget variance analysis, automated expense approvals, and stringent procurement controls 
to ensure eﬃcient resource allocation and oversight. 
• To maintain Financial Integrity: 
 
We adhere to the highest accounting standards and maintain rigorous internal ﬁnancial 
controls, including segregation of duties, automated reconciliations, and continuous 
monitoring, to guarantee accurate and transparent ﬁnancial reporting 
• For Continuous Improvement: 
 
For recognizing the need for continual evolution, we have inhouse Internal Audit team to assess 
control eﬀectiveness, identify potential vulnerabilities, and recommend corrective actions. We 
proactively address their ﬁndings and track progress through a dedicated risk management 
database. Our periodic reviews ensure adherence to established policies and procedures, 
identifying areas for improvement and fostering proactive risk management. 
DISCUSSION ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE WITH RESPECT TO OPERATIONAL 
EFFICIENCY 
The ﬁnancial performance of the Company has seen a good contribution from operations 
perspectives. Various cost optimisation drives by ways of alternate sourcing, standardization, 
process improvements and operational eﬃciency improvements has led signiﬁcant savings. Cost 
reduction have been achieved in certain areas by implementing eﬃciency improvement 
programme within the company. 
The following statements cover ﬁnancial performance review, which are attached to this report. 
a)  Distribution of income 
b)  Financial position at a glance 
c)  Financial summary 
MATERIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN HUMAN RESOURCES, INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS 
KSB remains committed to sustainable and responsible business practices. As we continue to 
expand, we nurture and continue the culture of open communication, execute exclusive skill 
development programmes, foster a progressive & inclusive work environment and encourage 
equal opportunities for each employee through our robust gender diversity programme. We 
undertook various initiatives to enhance the gender diversity at KSB India like hiring female 
employees on shop ﬂoor, appointment of Social counsellor and a female Gynaecologist; suitable 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT (Contd.)
44
infrastructure and female Security Oﬃcer for the safety and wellbeing of women and ensuring 
measures for their work-life balance.
The HR policies are periodically updated to ensure compliance while fostering a culture of trust 
and respect. Enhancement to the Service Milestone policy and Leave Policy have helped promote 
ease and a positive work environment. Also, HR digital transformation has automated and 
streamlined many HR activities with improvised data analysis, and enhanced employee 
experiences, ultimately leading to more eﬃcient and data-driven HR operations.
Through such comprehensive strategy, we forge ﬂexible work arrangements, execute wellness 
programs and ensure boosted safety measures; which has resulted in equitable outcomes, 
minimized risk and accelerated growth. We have also navigated our eﬀorts towards restructuring 
and strengthening of departments, digitization of processes, ambitious launch of several new 
products and addition of new segments, employee engagement activities and employee retention 
initiatives.
Industrial relations have been our focus and upheld at good levels through open communication 
with employee representatives, competitive compensation packages, and being committed to 
providing a fair and rewarding work environment across all our plants.
Year 2024 was a year of transformation and perseverance with two key accomplishments that 
stand out for the year 2024 being KSB Voice survey with 88% engagement score is a testament to 
our commitment to creating a vibrant workplace; and successfully meeting our Strategy 2024 
targets underscores our dedication to delivering on our promises. 
CAUTION: 
This report is based on the experience and information available to the Company in the pumps and 
valves business and assumption in regard to domestic and global economic conditions, 
government and regulation policies etc. The performance of the Company is dependent on these 
factors. However, the performance may be materially inﬂuenced by the changes therein beyond the 
Company's control, aﬀecting the views expressed in or perceived from this report.
KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS 
Key ﬁnancial ratios of the Company showing ﬁnancial performance are as under:
 Ratios (Standalone) 
 
 
Year Ended 
Year Ended
 
 
 
 
 
31st December, 2024 
31st December, 2023
1. Debtors Turnover (days) 
 
83 
74
2. Inventory Turnover (days)  
165 
172
3. Operating Proﬁt Margin (%) 
11.75 
11.65
4. Net Proﬁt Margin (%) 
 
9.54 
9.14
5. Return on Net Worth (%) 
 
18.03 
17.48
6. Interest Coverage Ratio (No. of times) 
120.26 
52.87 
Note: Interest Coverage Ratio has increased due to reduction in interest cost for FY 2024.
 
On behalf of the Board of Directors,
 
GAURAV SWARUP
Mumbai, 27th February, 2025 
Chairman
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT (Contd.)
45
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT (Contd.)
DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME (STANDALONE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
` Million
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
31st December, 2024 
  
31st December, 2023
 
 
` 
% 
` 
%
1. 
Raw Materials/Bought-out 
                 14,223 
55.24 
12,775 
55.94 
 
Components Consumed 
  
  
  
 
2. 
Excise Duty(till 30th June, 2017) 
- 
-  
   
- 
-
3. 
Employee beneﬁts expense 
3,135 
12.18 
2,697 
11.81 
4. 
Other Expenses 
4,599 
17.86  
4,064 
17.80 
5. 
Finance cost 
27 
0.10  
53 
0.23
6. 
Depreciation 
543 
2.11  
497 
2.18
7. 
Taxation 
  
  
  
 
 
Current 
815 
3.17  
722 
3.16 
 
Deferred 
(4) 
(0.02) 
 
(19) 
(0.08)
8.  
Other Comprehensive (Income)/Expense 
                      
  
(24) 
(0.11) 
27  
0.10
9. 
Dividend (including tax thereon) 
609 
2.37  
 
522 
2.29
10. 
Retained Earnings 
  
1,772 
6.88  
1,548 
6.78 
             
TOTAL                25,746  
99.99 
22,835 
100.00 
FINANCIAL POSITION AT A GLANCE (STANDALONE)
` Million 
CAPITAL 
 
  
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
 
31st December, 2024 
31st December, 2023
ASSETS OWNED 
 
 
  
 
 Non-Current Assets  
  
 
1.  
Property, Plant and Equipment (including Capital 
 
Work in Progress and RoU assets) 
 
             4,720 
                   
4,290
2. 
 Intangible Assets 
                
 211 
224                       
3.  
Investments 
                  
 63 
63                         
4.  
Other Non-Current Assets (net) 
               
  41 
 
227                       
5.  
Deferred Tax Assets (net) 
                 
191 
178                       
 
                  
Current Assets (Net) excluding borrowings             
9,025 
7,496  
  
  
              
TOTAL       
14,251 
12,478
 FINANCED BY 
  
 
1.  
Borrowings 
                        
- 
-    
             
2. 
 Net Worth* 
            
  14,251  
12,478                   
 
 
                   
TOTAL              
    14,251  
12,478
*Represented by 
  
 
Equity Share Capital 
 
                     348 
348                       
Other equity 
     
        13,903 
 
12,130                  
 
 
                  
TOTAL 
                14,251 
12,478
INCOME EARNED 
  
 
1.  
Revenue from operations 
           
  25,331  
22,472                   
2.  
Other Income 
            
     415 
363                       
  
  
                   
TOTAL               
  25,746 
22,835
INCOME DISTRIBUTED 
  
 
1.  
Materials consumed 
            
 14,223 
12,775                    
46
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT (Contd.)
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (STANDALONE)
 
2024 
2023 
2022 
2021 
2020
CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (INR Million)
Equity and Liabilities 
Equity Share Capital  
348 
348 
348 
348 
348
Other Equity 
13,903 
12,130 
10,583 
9,293 
8,116
Non-Current Liabilities 
591 
458 
453 
537 
462
Assets 
 
 
 
Non-Current Assets
Gross Block 
10,481 
9,547 
8,467 
7,805 
7,482
Net Block 
4,931 
4,514 
3,752 
3,498 
3,435
Investments 
63 
63 
63 
63 
63
Other Non-Current Assets 
632 
685 
1,015 
643 
381
Deferred Tax Assets (net) 
191 
178 
167 
220 
168
Current Assets (Net) 
9,025 
7,496 
6,386 
5,754 
4,879
REVENUE ACCOUNTS (INR Million)
Revenue from operations and Other Income 
25,746 
22,835 
18,674 
15,337 
12,404
Gross Proﬁt before ﬁnance cost and depreciation 
3,790 
3,299 
2,921 
2,459 
2,001
Finance cost 
27 
53 
61 
50 
34
Depreciation 
543 
497 
453 
436 
418
Proﬁt before tax 
3,220 
2,749 
2,407 
1,973 
1,549
Proﬁt after tax 
2,409 
2,046 
1,793 
1,466 
973
Dividend amount (including tax thereon) 
609 
522 
435 
296 
278
Retained earnings 
1,772 
1,548 
1,290 
1,176 
657
SELECTED INDICATORS 
Return on Capital Employed % 
23.45 
23.20 
22.97 
20.98 
17.46
Current Ratio 
2.13 
2.05 
2.01 
2.06 
2.01
Earnings per share 
13.84 
58.78 
51.50 
42.12 
27.96
Debt equity ratio 
0 
0 
0 
0.00 
0.07
Book value per share 
81.88 
358.50 
314.05 
276.99 
243.18
Dividend % 
175 
150 
125 
85 
80
Fixed Assets Turnover 
5.22 
5.06 
4.98 
4.38 
3.61
2.  
Employee beneﬁts expense 
             
 3,135  
 
2,697                     
3.  
Other expenses 
             
 4,599 
 
4,064                     
4.  
Finance cost 
                  
 27 
53                        
5.  
Depreciation 
                 
543  
 
497                       
6.  
Taxation  
  
 
   
                       
Current 
                 
815 
 
722
   
Deferred 
                  
(4) 
(19)                        
7.  
Other Comprehensive (Income)/Expense (net) 
                 27  
(24)                       
8.  
Dividend (including tax thereon) 
                 
609 
 
522                       
9.  
Retained Income  
              
1,772 
 
1,548                    
 
 
                  
TOTAL 
                25,746 
22,835
` Million
47
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1.  
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
The Company aims at conducting its business eﬃciently, by following professionally 
acknowledged good governance policies, thus meeting its obligations to all stakeholders in 
a balanced and accountable manner.
2.  
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
(a) 
Composition
 
 
The Board of Directors comprises of eight Directors as on signing of this report, of 
whom one is Managing Director. The oﬃce of Managing Director is held by a 
nominee of Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., the Company’s major shareholder. 
 
(b) 
Attendance of each Director at the Board Meetings and the last Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”)
ANNEXURE III TO BOARD’S REPORT
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
00374298 Chairman - NED 
4 
Yes
Mr. D. N. Damania  
00403834 
NED - I 
3 
Yes
(Upto 30th September, 2024)
Mr. Pradip Shah  
00066242 
NED - I 
3 
Yes
(Upto 30th September, 2024)
Mr. V. K. Viswanathan   01782934 
NED - I 
4 
Yes
(Upto 15th January, 2025)
Ms. Sharmila Barua  
08242998 
NED - I 
4 
Yes
Roychowdhury
Dr. Stephan Bross 
00423114 
NED 
4 
Yes
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
07884418 
NED 
4 
Yes
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
07475640 
Managing 
4 
Yes
 
 
Director - ED 
Mr. Ulhas Yargop  
00054530 
NED - I 
0 
NA
(From 1st October, 2024) 
Mr. Vishal Kampani  
00009079 
NED - I 
1 
NA
(From 1st October, 2024)
Mr. U. C. Muktibodh  
06558392 
NED - I 
NA 
NA
(From 16th January, 2025)
Name of the Director
DIN
Category of 
Directorship
No. of Board 
Meetings attended
Attendance 
the last AGM 
at 
(27th June, 2024)
 
(c)   Number of other Companies or Committees the Director of the Company is a 
Director/ Member/Chairman as on 31st December, 2024 
48
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
Name of the Director
No. of 
Directorships in 
other Boards @
No. of 
Memberships in other 
Board Committees #
No. of 
Chairmanships in other 
Board Committees #
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
7 
2 
1
Mr. D. N. Damania  
NA 
NA 
NA
(Upto 30th September, 2024)
Mr. Pradip Shah  
NA 
NA 
NA
(Upto 30th September, 2024)
Mr. V. K. Viswanathan 
2 
0 
2
(Upto 15th January, 2025)
Ms. Sharmila Barua  
Nil 
Nil 
Nil
Roychowdhury
Dr. Stephan Bross 
1 
Nil 
Nil
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
2 
Nil 
1
Mr. Ulhas Yargop  
Nil 
Nil 
Nil
(From 1st October, 2024) 
Mr. Vishal Kampani  
6 
1 
Nil
(From 1st October, 2024)
Mr. U. C. Muktibodh  
NA 
NA 
NA
(From 16th January, 2025)
 
@  
Directorships of other Indian Public Limited Companies are included.
 
# 
Memberships / Chairmanships in Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee of Indian Public Limited Companies are included.
(d)     Membership on the Boards of other listed Companies
Name of Director
Name of other Listed Company
Category
Mr. Gaurav Swarup
 
Swadeshi Polytex Limited
 
Chairman & NED
Industrial & Prudential 
Investment Company Limited
 
 
Chairman & MD
Avadh Sugar & Energy Limited
 
NED-I
 
Graphite Limited
 
NED-I
 
IFGL Refractories Limited
 
NED-I
 
Mr. D. N. Damania (Upto 
30th September, 2024)
 
NA
 
NA
 
Mr. Pradip Shah (Upto 30th
 
September, 2024)
 
NA
 
NA
 
 
 
 
Mr. V. K. Viswanathan
United Spirits Limited
NED-I
49
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
(e)    Details of Board Meetings held during the year under review
 
During the year 2024, four Meetings were held on 28th February, 2024, 26th April, 
2024, 1st August, 2024, and 13th November, 2024.
 
The information as speciﬁed in Schedule II to the Listing Regulations, 2015 is regularly 
made available to the Board, wherever applicable, for discussion and consideration.
(f) 
There are no inter-se relationships between the Board members.
(g) Number of shares held by Non-Executive Directors
 
Name of Non- Executive Director 
 
No. of shares held
 
 
Before sub-division    
After sub-division 
 
 
of shares 
 
of shares
 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
34,000 
 
1,70,000
 
Mr. D. N. Damania 
4,200 
 
21,000
 
Notes: 
 
Record date for sub-division of shares was 25th July, 2024.
 
No other Non-Executive Directors hold shares in the Company.
 
Held by Mr. D. N. Damania in the capacity of NED upto 30th September, 2024
(h) 
Web-link of familiarisation programme for Independent Directors : 
https://www.ksbindia.co.in
(i) 
The Board evaluates its composition to ensure that the Board has the appropriate mix 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to ensure their continued 
eﬀectiveness. In the table below, the speciﬁc areas of focus or expertise of individual 
Board members have been highlighted.
(d)   Membership on the Boards of other listed Companies (Contd.)
MD : Managing Director, NED : Non-Executive Director
NED – I : Non-Executive Director – Independent
Name of Director
Name of other Listed Company
Category
 
 
  
 
 
Ms. Sharmila Barua 
Roychowdhury
 
Nil
 
NA
 
Dr. Stephan Bross
 
Nil
 
NA
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz
 
Nil
 
NA
 
Mr. Rajeev Jain
 
Nil
 
NA
 
Mr. Ulhas Yargop
 
Nil
 
NA
 
Mr. Vishal Kampani
JM Financial Limited
MD & Vice Chairman
Mr. U. C. Muktibodh
(From 16th January, 2025) NA
NA
50
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
No. Essential Core skills/expertise/ 
Core skills/expertise/competencies of all the 
 
competencies required for the  
Directors on the Board of the Company
 
Company
1 
Strategic and Business Leadership The Directors and especially the Managing  
 
 
 
Director have many years of experience.
2 
Financial expertise 
The Board has eminent business leaders with 
 
 
deep knowledge of ﬁnance and business.
3 
Governance, Compliance and 
The presence of Directors with qualiﬁcations 
 
Regulatory 
and expertise in Law and Regulatory aﬀairs  
 
 
lends strength to the Board.
4 
Knowledge and expertise of   
The Directors have profound knowledge of 
 
Information Technology (IT),  
Information Technology, economic aﬀairs, 
 
Trade and Technology 
 trade and technology related matters.
(j) 
The Board has noted the declaration received from the Independent Directors pursuant to 
Listing Regulations, 2015 with regard to their Independence and is of the opinion that the 
Independent Directors fulﬁl the conditions of independence and are independent of the 
management of the Company. 
3. 
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
 
A.    Audit Committee
 
 
i. Terms of Reference
 
 
 
The terms of reference of this Committee are wide enough covering the matters 
speciﬁed under the Listing Regulations, 2015 and the Act.
 
 
ii. Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
 
Name of 
No. of   
No. of  
Remarks 
 
 
Member 
Meetings Meetings
 
 
 
held 
attended
 
Mr. D. N.   
4 
3 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a
 
Damania  
 
 
Committee member from 30th 
September, 2024 pursuant to his 
cessation from the Board.
 
Mr. Gaurav  
4 
4 
–
 
Swarup
 
Mr. Pradip  
4 
3 
Ceased to be a Committee member
 
Shah  
 
 
from 30th September, 2024 pursuant to 
his cessation from the Board.
 
Mr. V. K.   
4 
4 
Appointed as the Chairperson from 1st 
 
Viswanathan  
 
 
October, 2024.  
 
 
 
 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and 
Committee member from 15th 
January, 2025 pursuant to his 
cessation from the Board.
51
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
 
Ms. Sharmila  
4 
4 
–
 
Barua 
 
Roychowdhury
 
Dr. Matthias  
4 
4 
–
 
Schmitz
 
Mr. Ulhas  
4 
0 
Appointed as a Committee member
 
Yargop 
 
 
from 1st October, 2024 and as the 
Chairperson from 16th January, 2025.
 
Mr. Vishal  
4 
1 
Appointed as a Committee member 
 
Kampani 
 
 
from 1st October, 2024. 
 
Mr. U. C.  
4 
NA 
Appointed as a Committee member
 
Muktibodh 
 
 
from 16th January, 2025. 
 
 
 
iii. 
Details of Audit Committee Meetings held during the year under review
 
 
 
Four Meetings were held on 28th February, 2024, 26th April, 2024, 1st August, 
2024, and 13th November, 2024.
 
 
 
Managing Director, Chief Financial Oﬃcer, Internal Auditors and Statutory 
Auditors are invitees to the meeting. The Company Secretary of the Company 
acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
 
B. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
 
  
i. 
Terms of Reference
 
 
 
The terms of reference of this Committee are wide enough covering the matters 
speciﬁed under the Listing Regulations, 2015 and the Act.
 
 
ii. Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson 
 
Name of 
No. of   
No. of  
Remarks 
 
 
Member 
Meetings Meetings
 
 
 
held 
attended 
 
Mr. D. N.   
4 
3 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a
 
Damania 
 
 
Committee member from 30th 
September, 2024 pursuant to his 
cessation from the Board
 
Mr. Pradip  
4 
3 
Ceased to be a Committee member 
 
Shah 
 
 
from 30th September, 2024 pursuant to 
his cessation from the Board.
 
Mr. Gaurav  
4 
4 
–
 
Swarup
 
Mr. V. K.  
4 
1 
Appointed as the Chairperson from 1st 
 
Viswanathan  
 
 
October, 2024.
 
 
 
 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a 
Committee member from 15th January,  
2025 pursuant to his cessation from the 
Board
 
Mr. Vishal 
4 
1 
Appointed as a Committee member 
 
Kampani  
 
 
from 1st October, 2024.
52
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
 
Mr. Ulhas  
4 
0 
Appointed as a Committee member
 
Yargop 
 
 
from 1st October, 2024 and as the 
Chairperson from 16th January, 2025. 
 
 
iii.  Details of Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings held during the 
year under review 
 
 
 
Four Meetings were held on 28th February, 2024, 26th April, 2024, 1st August, 
2024, and 13th November, 2024.
 
 
iv. 
Remuneration Policy
 
 
 
Remuneration Policy of the Company aims at recommending and reviewing the 
remuneration to Managing Director, Non-Executive Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company and is based on evaluation criteria such 
as industry benchmarks, Company’s annual performance and its strategy, 
expertise, talent and meritocracy including criteria for determining 
qualiﬁcation, positive attributes, independence of a Director etc.
 
 
v. 
Annual evaluation of Board, Committees and individual Directors
 
 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, Listing Regulations, 2015 and the 
Remuneration Policy of the Company, the Board of Directors/ Independent 
Directors/ Nomination and Remuneration Committee (as applicable) has 
undertaken an evaluation of its own performance, the performance of its 
Committees and of all the individual Directors including the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors based on various parameters relating to roles, responsibilities 
and obligations of the Board, eﬀectiveness of its functioning, contribution of 
Directors at meetings and the functioning of its Committees. Summary of 
evaluation is presented to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
the Board of Directors (as applicable).
 
 
 
Directors express their satisfaction with the evaluation process.
 
 
vi. 
Senior Management
 
 
 
The Board of Directors, based on the recommendations of NRC, has identiﬁed 
category of Senior Management Personnel(s), pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 16(1)(d) of LODR. Details of Senior Management Personnel(s) as on 
31st December, 2024, are as follows:
 
 
 
Sr No 
Name 
Designation/Head of Department 
 
 
 
1 
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
Managing Director, KSB India & 
Regional Executive Oﬃcer - Region 
Asia West
 
 
 
2 
Mr. Mahesh Bhave 
Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Vice President 
Finance, Purchase and DTC 
 
 
 
3 
Mr. Nitin Patil 
Vice President, Nuclear Business, 
Operations- Pimpri & Shirwal Plants
 
 
 
4 
Mr. Mohan Patil  
Vice President, Human Resources
 
 
 
5 
Mr. Prashant Kumar 
Vice President, Sales & Marketing
 
 
 
6 
Mr. Sunil Bapat 
Vice President, Operations - Sinnar, 
Solar Business & Foundry
53
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
 
 
 
7 
Mr. Manoharan Raja 
Senior General Manager, Operations - 
Coimbatore Valves Plant
 
 
 
8 
Mr. Shraddhanand Desai 
Senior General Manger- Controlling, 
DTC, Corporate Strategy
 
 
 
9 
Mr. Mukesh Pattewar 
Senior General Manger- Contract 
Management
 
 
 
10 
Mr. Rajesh Kulkarni 
General Manager, SupermeServ - 
Chinchwad Plant
 
 
 
11 
Mr. K S Seshadri 
General Manager- Product 
Management & Product Support
 
 
 
12 
Mr. Philip Puthenpurackal General Manager, Quality 
Management
 
 
 
13 
Ms. Shraddha Kavathekar Company Secretary & Compliance 
Oﬃcer
 
 
 
14 
Mr. Pradip Watave  
Senior General Manager – Purchase
 
 
 
 
(Upto 31st May, 2024) 
 
C. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
 
 
i. Terms of Reference
 
 
 
The terms of reference of this Committee are wide enough covering the matters 
speciﬁed under Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.
 
 
ii. Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson 
 
 
 
Name of 
No. of   
No. of  
Remarks 
 
 
Member 
Meetings Meetings
 
 
 
held 
attended
 
Mr. D. N.   
3 
2 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a
 
Damania  
 
 
Committee member from 30th 
September, 2024 pursuant to cessation 
from the Board
 
Mr. Gaurav  
3 
3 
–
 
Swarup
 
Mr. Rajeev  
3 
3 
–
 
Jain
 
Ms. Sharmila   
3 
1 
Appointed as the Chairperson and a
 
Barua  
 
 
Committee member from 1st 
 
Roychowdhury  
 
 
October, 2024 
 
 
iii.   Details of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meetings held during the 
year under review 
 
 
 
Three Meetings were held on 28th February, 2024, 1st August, 2024, and 13th 
November, 2024.
54
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
 
D.   Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
 
 
i. Terms of Reference:
 
 
 
The terms of reference of this Committee are wide enough covering the matters 
speciﬁed under the Listing Regulations, 2015 and the Act.
 
 
ii. Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson 
 
Name of 
No. of   
No. of  
Remarks 
 
 
Member 
Meetings Meetings
 
 
 
held 
attended
 
Mr. D. N.   
1 
1 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a 
 
Damania 
 
 
member from 30th September, 2024 
pursuant to cessation from the Board
 
Mr. Gaurav  
1 
1 
–
 
Swarup
 
Mr. Rajeev  
1 
1 
–
 
Jain
 
Mr. Ulhas  
1 
NA 
Appointed as the Chairperson and a 
 
Yargop 
 
 
member from 1st October, 2024 
 
 
iii.  Details of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Meetings held during the year 
under review:
 
 
 
Meeting was held on 1st August, 2024.
 
 
iv. The Company Secretary Ms. Shraddha Kavathekar acts as Compliance Oﬃcer 
and as the secretary to the committee.
 
 
 
During the year under review fourteen grievances were received based on the 
reports from MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd (Formerly known as Link in time India 
Private Limited). The grievances have been resolved to the satisfaction of the 
shareholders.
 
 
 
There are no pending complaints as at the year end.
 
E. 
Risk Management Committee 
 
 
i. Terms of Reference
 
 
 
The terms of reference of this Committee are wide enough covering the matters 
speciﬁed under the Listing Regulations, 2015 and the Act.
 
 
ii. Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson 
 
 
Name of 
No. of   
No. of  
Remarks 
 
 
Member 
Meetings Meetings
 
 
 
held 
attended 
 
Mr. Pradip  
3 
2 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a 
 
Shah 
 
 
Committee member from 30th 
September, 2024 pursuant to cessation 
from the Board.
 
Dr. Matthias  
3 
3 
–
 
Schmitz
 
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
3 
3 
–
55
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
 
Mr. V. K.  
3 
1 
Appointed as the Chairperson and a
 
Viswanathan  
 
 
Committee member from 
1st October, 2024.
 
 
 
 
Ceased to be the Chairperson and a 
Committee member from 15th January, 
2025 pursuant to cessation from the 
Board.
 
Mr. U. C.  
3 
NA 
Appointed as the Chairperson and a 
 
Muktibodh 
 
 
Committee member from 16th January, 
2025. 
 
 
iii. 
Details of Risk Management Committee meetings held during the year under 
review
           
 
Three Meetings were held on 28th February, 2024, 1st August, 2024, and 13th 
November, 2024.
4. 
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
 
The remuneration payable to the Executive Director is approved by the members at the 
general meeting of the Company. Remuneration of Executive Director consists of a ﬁxed 
salary, perquisites, performance linked bonus, based on the individual and the Company’s 
performance and commission based on net proﬁts of the Company subject to a ceiling of 
50% of the annual salary. The Board of Directors on the recommendation of Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee determine the performance linked bonus from year to year.
 
(a)   Details of remuneration paid/payable to the Executive Director for the year under review
` ’000s
 
Name    
Salary Commission Performance  Perquisites &  
Total  
Terms of 
 
of the  
 
 
linked bonus Contribution to  
 
appointment
 
Director 
 
 
 
Provident Fund
 
Mr. Rajeev  13,175 
6,587 
18,697 
16,996 
55,455 
For a term of
 
Jain 
 
 
 
 
 
   5 years  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eﬀective from
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1st  July, 2021.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
i. 
The above remuneration to Mr. Rajeev Jain excludes contribution for gratuity, 
superannuation and personal accident insurance premium and the liability for 
encashable leave as the ﬁgures for the Director are not separately available.
 
 
ii. The Company does not have a stock option scheme.
 
 
iii. The notice period for Mr. Rajeev Jain will be as per the service contract mutually 
agreed between him and the Board. No severance fees are payable to the Director.
 
(b)  The Board of Directors decide the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors which 
consists of a sitting fee as well as commission based on the net proﬁts of the Company.
 
 
As approved by the members commission amount is limited to 1% of the net proﬁts of 
the Company.
 
 
Details of remuneration to Non-Executive Directors for the period 1st January, 2024 
to 31st December, 2024 are as under:
56
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
` ’000s
 
Name of the Directors 
Directors’ Fees 
Commission
 
 
(Sitting fees) 
(to be proposed)
 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
395 
3,900.00
 
Mr. D. N. Damania 
295 
1,462.50
 
Mr. Pradip Shah 
285 
1,462.50
 
Mr. V. K. Viswanathan 
310 
1,950.00
 
Ms. Sharmila Barua Roychowdhury 
295 
1,950.00
 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
160 
1,950.00
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
325 
1,950.00
 
Mr. Vishal Kampani 
70 
487.50
 
Mr. Ulhas Yargop 
0 
487.50
 
Total 
2,135 
15,600.00
5. 
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
 
(i)    Location and time where last three Annual General Meetings were held
 
Financial Year
Date
Time
Venue
 
 
 
 
2021 
11th May, 2022 
12.00 pm 
Video Conferencing 
 
 
 
 
("VC")/ Other Audio 
 
 
 
 
Visual Means ("OAVM")
 
2022 
11th May, 2023 
1.00 pm 
Video Conferencing 
 
 
 
 
("VC")/ Other Audio 
 
 
 
 
Visual Means ("OAVM")
 
2023 
27th June, 2024 
3:30 pm  
Video Conferencing 
 
 
 
 
("VC")/ Other Audio 
 
 
 
 
Visual Means ("OAVM")
 
(ii)   Special Resolution passed in the previous three Annual General Meetings
 
Financial Year 
Special Resolution Passed
 
2021 
No
 
2022 
Yes
 
2023 
Yes
 
(iii)  Postal Ballot
 
 
During the year, three postal ballot events were carried out pursuant to the provisions 
of Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act, read with the 
Circulars issued by Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs by way of remote e-voting.
 
 
Following Special resolutions were passed through Postal Ballot by the Members of 
Company:
 
 
1. Appointment of Mr. Ulhas Yargop as a Non-Executive and an Independent Director
 
 
2. Appointment of Mr. Vishal Kampani as a Non-Executive and an Independent 
Director
57
 
 
3. Appointment of Mr. U. C. Muktibodh as a Non-Executive and an Independent 
Director
 
 
The Board had appointed Ms. Ashwini Inamdar (FCS No. 9409/CP No. 11226), 
Partner, M/s Mehta and Mehta Associates, Company Secretaries the Scrutinizers for 
conducting the e voting process in a fair and transparent manner for the above said 
postal ballot events. All the resolutions were duly passed, and the results were 
announced on 27th September, 2024 for appointment of Mr. Ulhas Yargop and Mr. 
Vishal Kampani and on 11th January, 2025 for appointment of Mr. U. C. Muktibodh.
 
 
Procedure for Postal Ballot
 
 
The Postal Ballots were carried out as per the provisions of Section 108 and 110 and 
other applicable provisions of the Act read with the Rules framed thereunder, 
Regulation 44 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations 2015 (Listing Regulations) and 
applicable circulars issued by the MCA and SEBI from time to time.
6. 
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
 
i. 
Quarterly Results 
Published in the newspaper every quarter
 
ii. 
Newspapers wherein results  
Business Standard, Economic Times, 
 
 
are normally published 
Sakal and Navashakti
 
iii.   Any website, where results  
On the website of the Company at 
 
 
are displayed 
www. ksbindia.co.in and on websites of 
 
 
 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of
 
 
 
India Ltd.
 
iv.  Whether it also displays  
Yes
 
 
oﬃcial news releases
 
v. 
The presentations made  
Yes and the same are available on the website 
 
 
to institutional investors  
of the Company at www.ksbindia.co.in 
 
 
or to the analysts
7. 
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 
AGM: Date, Time and Venue 
Thursday, 15th May, 2025 at 1.30 p.m. IST 
through Video Conferencing ("VC")/Other 
Audio-Visual Means ("OAVM").
 
Financial Year 
The ﬁnancial year under review covers the 
period 1st January, 2024 to 31st December, 
2024.
 
Date of Book Closure/ Record date 
Record date for the purpose of payment of 
dividend is 2nd May, 2025
 
Dividend Payment date 
30th May, 2025 onwards
 
Listing on Stock Exchanges 
1. Listing on Stock Exchanges BSE Limited, 
Mumbai
 
 
 
2. National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE), Mumbai
 
 
 
The Company has paid the listing fees for the 
period 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
58
 
Stock Code 
1. BSE : 500249
 
 
 
2. NSE : KSB
 
 
 
3. ISIN : INE999A01023
 
Registrar and Transfer Agent 
MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd (Formerly known 
as Link in time India Private Limited)
 
Share Transfer System 
Transfer of shares held in physical form is not 
permitted after 31st March, 2019 as per the 
SEBI notiﬁcations.
 
Updation of KYC details 
Members are requested to update their KYC 
details with Company’s RTA viz. MUFG Intime 
India Pvt. Ltd (Formerly known as Link in time 
India Private Limited) at the earliest.
 
Distribution of Shareholding and  
Please see Annexure ‘A’
 
Shareholding pattern as on 31st 
 
December, 2024
 
Dematerialisation of shares  
99.41 % of the Paid-up Capital has been
 
and liquidity 
 dematerialised as on 31st December, 2024. 
 
Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or  Not issued.
 
any Convertible instruments conversion 
 
date and likely impact on equity 
 
 
Plant Locations 
The Company's plants are located at
 
 
 
Maharashtra-  
 
 
 
Pimpri, Pune 
 
 
 
Chinchwad, Pune 
 
 
 
Vambori, Ahilyanagar
 
 
 
Sinnar, Nashik 
 
 
 
Kesurdi, Shirwal / Khandala 
 
 
 
Tamil Nadu-
 
 
 
NSN Palayam, Coimbatore 
 
Address for correspondence 
Shareholders should address correspondence 
to MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd (Formerly 
known as Link in time India Private Limited), C 
101, 247 Park, L B S Marg, Vikhroli West, 
Mumbai 400 083 Tel No.: 022 49186000 
Website:https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/helpd
esk/Service_Request.html. 
 
Credit Rating 
The Company does not have any debt 
instruments, ﬁxed deposit program or any 
scheme for mobilization of funds and 
accordingly it has not obtained any credit 
ratings during the ﬁnancial year for these 
purposes. The details of Credit Rating obtained 
for borrowings are covered in the Board’s 
Report annexed herewith.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
59
8. 
DISCLOSURES
 
A. Pursuant to requirements of Listing Regulations, 2015 the Company has adopted the 
policy determining material subsidiaries and the policy on related party transactions 
and the said policies are available on the Company's website at: www.ksbindia.co.in
 
B. 
Disclosure on Material Related Party Transactions
 
 
The Company has not entered into any transactions of a material nature with the 
promoters, Directors or management and their subsidiaries or relatives etc. that may 
have a potential conﬂict with the interests of the Company at large.
 
 
Normal trade transactions, sales commission agreement for exports and license and 
technical collaboration agreements are being entered into with KSB SE, Germany and 
other group Companies from time to time. Further, remuneration is paid to Directors, 
dividend is paid on shares held by Directors, etc. Full disclosures on related party 
transactions, as per the Ind AS 24 are given under Notes to the ﬁnancial statements. The 
link of the Related Party Policy of the Company is : www.ksbindia.co.in 
 
 
Details of shareholdings of Non-Executive Directors and dividend paid thereon:
 
 
Name of the Directors 
No. of shares held 
Dividend paid (INR)
 
 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
34,000* 
5,95,000
 
 
Mr. D. N. Damania 
4,200* 
73,500
 
 
* No of shares held mentioned above are before sub-division of shares during FY 2024.
 
C. Details of non-compliance, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the 
Stock Exchanges/ SEBI/ Statutory Authorities on matters relating to capital markets 
during the last three years.
 
 
The Company has complied with the requirements of regulatory authorities on capital 
markets and no penalties / strictures have been imposed against it in the last three years.
 
D. Board Disclosures - Risk Management
 
 
The Company has laid down procedures and informed the Board members about the 
risk assessment and minimization procedures. These procedures are periodically 
reviewed to ensure that executive management controls risk through means of a 
properly deﬁned framework.
 
E. 
Whistle Blower Policy
 
 
The Whistle Blower Policy has been adopted to provide appropriate avenues to the 
stakeholders to bring to the attention of the management, the concerns about any 
unethical behaviour, by using the mechanism provided in the Policy. We aﬃrm that no 
personnel has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
 
F. 
Details required under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013:
 
 
i. 
number of complaints ﬁled during the ﬁnancial year: Nil
 
 
ii. 
number of complaints disposed of during the ﬁnancial year: Nil
 
 
iii. 
number of complaints pending as on end of the ﬁnancial year: Nil
 
G. Certiﬁcate from practicing Company Secretary on eligibility of the Board of Directors 
to serve as Directors is annexed to this Report.
 
H. The Board has accepted the recommendations of its Committees, as applicable.
 
I. 
The total fees for all services paid by the Company to the statutory auditors are 
mentioned in ﬁnancial statements.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
60
 
J. 
The Company has not given any loans or advances to subsidiary /associate /ﬁrms / 
Companies in which Directors are interested during the year under review.
 
K. Disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities: The details are 
provided in ﬁnancial statements forming part of this report.
 
L. 
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding listed entities : NA during the year 
under review. 
9. 
NON-MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
 
The Company has complied with all requirements of corporate governance speciﬁed in 
Listing Regulations, 2015.
 
The status with regard to compliance by the Company with discretionary requirements as 
listed out in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations is as under:
 
a. 
The position and oﬃce of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and that of MD / 
CEO are separate.
 
b. 
The audit report of the Company’s Financial Statements for the year ended 31st 
December, 2024 is unmodiﬁed.
 
c. 
The Company is in compliance with corporate governance requirements speciﬁed in 
regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 of 
Listing Regulation. The Internal Auditors engaged by the Company report directly to 
the Audit Committee.
 
d. 
The Company follows a robust process of communicating with the shareholders 
which has been elaborated in the Report under the Heading ‘Means of 
Communication'.
                  
On behalf of the Board of Directors
GAURAV SWARUP
Mumbai, 27th February, 2025 
Chairman
Declaration by the Managing Director under Schedule V to SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 
regarding compliance with Business conduct Guidelines (Code of Conduct)
All Board members and senior management personnel have aﬃrmed compliance with the Code of 
Conduct for the year 2024.
Rajeev Jain
Managing Director
Mumbai, 27th February, 2025
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
61
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To,
The Members, 
KSB Limited
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by KSB LIMITED 
(hereinafter referred as "Company") for the Financial year ended December 31, 2024 as prescribed 
under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and paras C, D 
and E of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred as "Listing Regulations").
We state that compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the 
management, and our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted 
by the Company for ensuring compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an 
audit nor an expression of opinion on the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to our examination of the relevant 
records and the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as prescribed under Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither on assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company nor the eﬃciency or eﬀectiveness with which the management has conducted the aﬀairs 
of the Company.
This certiﬁcate is issued solely for the purposes of complying with Listing Regulations and may not 
be suitable for any other purpose.
 
For Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries
 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
 
Ashwini Inamdar, Partner
 
FCS No: F 9409, CP No.: 11226
 Mumbai, 27th February, 2025 
UDIN:  F009409F004014344
62
 
ANNEXURE A
Distribution of shareholding as on 31st December, 2024 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of shares held 
Members 
Shares 
  
 
 
Number 
% 
Number 
%  
1-500 
50,783 
90.20 
36,60,482 
2.10 
501 - 1,000 
2,206 
3.90 
17,59,884 
1.01 
1,001 - 2,000 
1,258 
2.20 
18,94,011 
1.09 
2,001 - 3,000 
546 
1.00 
13,65,345 
0.78 
3,001 - 4,000 
313 
0.60 
11,17,007 
0.64 
4,001 - 5,000 
253 
0.40 
11,81,847 
0.68 
5,001 - 10,000 
532 
0.90 
39,25,196 
2.26 
10,001 and above 
428 
0.80 
15,91,35,448 
91.44 
Total 
56,319 
100.00 
17,40,39,220 
100.00 
Categories of shareholders as on 31st December, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
  
 
 
No. of 
% to the
 
  
 
 
Shares held 
Capital 
Indian Promoters 
 
 
5,09,17,290 
29.26
Foreign Promoters 
 
 
7,05,54,240 
40.54
Mutual Funds, AIF 
 
 
1,47,69,425 
8.49
Banks, Financial Institutions, NBFC and Insurance Companies 
 
37,09,802 
2.13
Private Coprorate Bodies 
 
 
10,13,209 
0.58
Indian Public   
 
 
2,10,87,175 
12.12
Foreign Nationals/NRIs/FPIs 
 
 
1,05,97,682 
6.09
Escrow and IEPF 
 
 
2,81,950 
0.16
Directors Trusts, HUF, Clearing Members and LLPs 
 
11,08,447 
0.63
Total 
  
 
 
17,40,39,220 
100.00
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
63
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members,
KSB LIMITED
Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, 
L.B.S. Marg, Mulund (West), Mumbai - 400080.
 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns, declarations and other disclosures 
received from the Directors of KSB LIMITED, having CIN : L29120MH1960PLC011635 and 
having registered oﬃce situated at Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, L.B.S. Marg, Mulund (West), 
Mumbai - 400080 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company 
for the purpose of issuing this Certiﬁcate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule 
V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the veriﬁcations (including Directors Identiﬁcation Number (DIN) status at the portal 
www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and carried by us and explanations furnished to us by the 
Company & its oﬃcers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company 
as stated below for the Financial Year ending on December 31, 2024 have been debarred or 
disqualiﬁed from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs, or any such other Statutory Authorities:
 Sr. No. 
Name of Director 
DIN 
Date of Appointment  in Company
 
1. 
Gaurav Swarup 
00374298 
24/01/2000
 
2. 
Stephan Bross 
00423114 
11/02/2014
 
3. 
Vegulaparanan Kasi Viswanathan 
01782934 
16/01/2015
 
4. 
Rajeev Jayantiprasad Jain 
07475640 
01/07/2016
 
5. 
Matthias Gunter Schmitz 
07884418 
25/07/2017
 
6. 
Sharmila Barua Roychowdhury 
08242998 
30/09/2018
 
7.  
Vishal Nimesh Kampani 
00009079 
01/10/2024
 
8. 
Ulhas Narayan Yargop  
00054530 
01/10/2024
 
9. 
Pradip Panalal Shah  
00066242 
21/06/2008
 
 
(Upto 30th September, 2024)
 
10. 
Dara Nadirshaw Damania  
00403834 
30/12/1981
 
 
(Upto 30th September, 2024)
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these based on our veriﬁcation. This certiﬁcate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of 
the Company nor of the eﬃciency or eﬀectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
aﬀairs of the Company
 
For Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries
 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
 
Ashwini Inamdar, Partner
 
 FCS No: F 9409, C.P. No.: 11226
 Mumbai, 27th February, 2025 
UDIN: F009409F004013805
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Contd.)
64
ANNEXURE IV TO BOARD’S REPORT
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION
under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
I. 
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of 
the Company for the Financial Year 2024, the percentage increase in remuneration of Chief 
Executive Oﬃcer, Chief Financial Oﬃcer and Company Secretary during the Financial year 
2024.
 
No.
   Name of the 
 
 
Designation 
Ratio of remuneration  
% Increase in 
 
 
 Director / KMP 
 
of each Director to the  
remuneration 
 
 
 
 
median remuneration of 
during FY
 
 
 
 
employees 
2024 
 
1. 
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
Managing Director 
54:1 
5.68%
 
2. 
Mr. Mahesh Bhave Chief Financial  
Not Applicable  
Refer Note 2
 
 
 
Oﬃcer
 
3. 
Ms. Shraddha  
Company Secretary 
Not Applicable 
Refer Note 2
 
 
Kavathekar
 
Notes:
 
1. The Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fees and commission 
as per the statutory provisions and within the limits approved by the shareholders. The 
details of remuneration of Non-executive Directors are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report. The ratio of remuneration and percentage increase for Non- 
executive Directors' Remuneration is therefore not considered for the above purpose.
 
2. The details are mentioned in the Annual Return available on the website of the 
Company. 
II. The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees in the ﬁnancial year: 
There has been an increase of 3.29% in median remuneration of employees in Financial Year 
2024 as compared to Financial Year 2023.
III. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company: There were 2,165 
employees on the rolls of the Company as on 31st December, 2024.
IV. Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the key 
managerial personnel in Financial Year 2024 and its comparison with the percentile increase 
in the managerial remuneration: The aggregate remuneration of employees other than 
managerial personnel has increased by 13% and that of managerial personnel has also 
increased by 11%.
V. 
Aﬃrmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: The 
remuneration of Directors was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
65
Highlights of Celebration at KSB India
“5th June” the World Environment Day is globally celebrated to highlight that the protection and health of the 
environment is a major issue, which aﬀects the well-being of people and economic development throughout the 
world. The celebration of this day provided us with an opportunity to broaden the basis for an enlightened opinion 
and responsible conduct by individuals, enterprises and communities in preserving and enhancing the 
environment. 
The theme of the 2024 World Environment Day is “Land restoration, Desertiϐication, and Drought resilience.”
On Jun 5th, KSB Limited celebrated Environment Day with great enthusiasm, aiming to raise awareness about 
environmental issues. The event started with a pledge taken by all employees at every location to protect the 
environment, reinforcing our commitment to sustainability. Various activities were conducted, like Tree plantation, 
Seedball distribution, dark Hour – Switch oﬀ AC/Lights at lunch time, Encourage the Carpooling, Selϐie with planted 
tree Campaign, Zero WasteLunch Day, Photography competition for inhouse biodiversity and Ecofriendly stalls 
from NGO.
ANNEXURE V TO THE BOARD’S REPORT
65
66
Rangoli replacing plastic banner
Employees Participation at Tree Plantation Drive 
Environment Protection Pledge Ceremony
Dark Hour –Ofϐice
Dark Hour –Shop Floor
Carpooling 
Carpooling helps the environment by improving air quality, 
reducing pollutants, and reducing trafϐic. KSB has launched a 
campaign to "reduce carbon emissions by carpooling to the 
ofϐice."
We had organised carpooling competition on Environment Day 
which was a huge success.
Glimpses of Celebration
66
67
KSB India Biodiversity
All life on Earth is based on biodiversity, which is the variety of living things from all sources. This encompasses 
variation within species and within ecosystems, signifying the genetic composition of microbes, plants, fauna etc. 
Numerous initiatives are taken by KSB Limited to preserve biodiversity at every location. The "Ofϐice Biodiversity 
Photography Contest" was held by KSB on Environment Day. Employees from all locations participated in the 
contest. 
67
68
Strengthening Our Commitment to Workplace Safety
At KSB Limited, the Occupational Health & Safety Management System, ISO 45001: 2018, is in place. 
To guarantee a safe, healthy, and comfortable working environment for everyone, all EHS systems and 
procedures are also built with local health and safety rules and requirements in mind. To foster a culture 
of safety and raise awareness of safety throughout the company, safety oﬃcers are assigned to each 
plant. The organization uses methodical procedures to regularly identify and evaluate work-related 
risks and hazards in order to provide a safe working environment.
We continue to plan a variety of events to encourage safe work practices and increase worker and 
employee awareness of workplace hazards. Our company's safety culture has been strengthened in large part by the safety 
awareness training sessions, hands-on workshops, evacuation drill exercises, and safety exhibitions like ﬁreﬁghting, mock 
drills, snake bite awareness training, health and wellness training, and safety games like Safety Ladder and street plays.
Safety & Health Pledge
Fire Fighting Training
First Aid Training
 
 
Personal Protection Equipment
Display
Safety Quiz Competition
Safety Training Program
Safety Induction 
Blood Donation Camp 
Health Training
68
69
ESG Digitization Solution:
The growth of digital technology brings up opportunities for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
performance studies to assess corporate ESG performance more accurately, make decisions more eﬀectively, and 
boost business competitiveness. 
KSB took the initiative to introduce the ESG Digitization Solution, which may assist businesses in improving their 
sustainable development and increasing stakeholder value.
Interplant Sustainability Challenger Award:
The plant personnel who are responsible for data collecting, maintenance, analysis, and emission reduction 
projects are encouraged by KSB Limited. The criteria for the analysis were determined by the corporate committee. 
Criteria:
· 
Promptly EHS data updating on Monthly basis
· 
Absolute reduction of environmental parameters
· 
Parameters in FY 2024 comparison with FY 2023 
· 
Scop I & Scope II Emission intensity in terms of physical output
·
Air leakage scenario in FY 2024 compare with FY 2023
·
Training man-days per employee in FY 2024 compared to FY 2023
·
This challenger award is declared quarterly by corporate committee
Beneϐits:
69
70
Under the CSR Large Category at the 13th VDMA (German 
Engineering Federation) Mechanical Engineering Summit. 
society through purposeful, impactful programs.
Empowerment Conclave Award 2024
KSB Limited Recognized for Societal Impact 
at Y4D Foundation’s  10th Annual Day 
“Empowerment Conclave”
IGBC Green Factory Building Certiϐication:
We are excited to share that KSB Limited has achieved 
another milestone by receiving the prestigious IGBC Green 
Factory Building Certiϐication for MIL Plant in FY 2024. Our 
Chennai Ofϐice & EPD Plant are already IGBC certiϐied 
locations in previous years.
This recognition underscores our commitment to 
sustainable manufacturing practices and environmentally 
friendly operations. 
Awards and Recognitions:
VDMA Manufacturing Excellence Award, 
2024 Award for CSR Initiatives
BEE STAR RATING CERTIFICATE
(Renewal)
Submersible Pump Set
KSB LIMITED
Validity up to
31/12/2025
2024 - 2027
70
71
KSB obtained :
·
Reasonable level assurance for Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions 
·
Limited level assurance for Scope 3 
emissions
"Zero Waste to 
Landϐill Certiϐication 
Achieved”
·
Chinchwad Plant
·
Shirwal Plant
·
Sinnar Plant
Zero Liquid Discharge 
Certiϐication Achieved”
·
Chinchwad Plant
·
Coimbatore Plant
71
72
ESG 
And Refresher training, once in 2 years 
for existing Managers and above 
employees and other identﬁed 
employees.
72
73
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details of the listed entity:
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
S. 
No.
Question
Response
1. 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the
Entity
 
L29120MH1960PLC011635
 
2.
Name of the Listed Entity 
 
KSB Limited
 
3.
Year of Incorporation 
 
1960
 
4.
Registered Oﬃce Address 
 
Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, 
L.B.S. Marg, Mulund (West), 
Mumbai, Mumbai City  400080, 
 
-
 
Maharashtra, India.
 
5.
Corporate Address
 
KSB Limited, Mumbai-Pune Road, 
-
 
Pimpri Pune-
 
411018, Maharashtra, 
India.  
6.
E-mail
 
compsec.india@ksb.com
 
7.
Telephone 
 
 
 
8.
Website 
 
www.ksbindia.co.in
 
9.
Financial Year for which report is being 
done 
 
1st January, 2024 to
31st December, 2024
 
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where 
shares are listed 
 
 
 
 
BSE Limited, Mumbai, and
National Stock Exchange of
India Limited (NSE)
 
11.
Paid-up Capital (INR.) 
 
34,80,78,440
 
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, 
email)
 
of the person who may be contacted 
in case of queries on the BRSR report.  
 
Ms. Shraddha Kavathekar
Company Secretary
compsec.india@ksb.com
020- 27101024
 
13.
Reporting Boundary (Standalone or 
Consolidated basis) 
Standalone 
020 - 27101024
14.
Name of Assurance provider
SGS India Private Limited
15.
Type of assurance
Note for the report: Few numbers for previous year/s are revised wherever required, 
pursuant to adoption of more accurate calculation methods during the year 2024. 
Reasonable level assurance obtained on Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions.
Limited level Assurance obtained on Scope 3 GHG emissions.
Zero waste to landﬁll assurance and zero liquid discharge assurance 
obtained at selected manufacturing units.
74
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
III. Operations:
S. 
No. 
Description of Main 
Activity 
 
Description of Business Activity  
% Turnover of 
the entity 
1.
Manufacturing of
pumps, valves, systems
and related services
Electrical equipment, general purpose
and special purpose machinery
and equipment.
100%  
 
 
 
S. 
No. 
Product/ Service 
% of total 
turnover 
contributed 
 
1.
Pumps and Valves
 
 
 
 
Manufacture of ﬂuid power  
equipment,
Manufacture of other pumps, 
compressors taps and valves
 
NIC Code
2812 and 2813
 
100 %
 
II. Products and Services:
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Oﬃces
Total
National
 
6 Plants 
 
Maharashtra: 
·
 
Pimpri, District - Pune
Chinchwad,
District - Pune
Vambori, District 
- Ahilyanagar
Sinnar, District 
- Nashik
Kesurdi, Shirwal, 
District - Satara
 
 
 
·
 
·
 
 
·
 
  
Tamil Nadu: 
 
·
 
NSN Palayam, 
District - Coimbatore
 
14 Branch Oﬃces and 
4 Zonal Oﬃces
 
 
 
 
North- Noida (ZO) 
·  Chandigarh, Jaipur, 
Lucknow & Noida
 
East-  Kolkata (ZO) 
 
·  
West-  Mumbai (ZO) 
 
·  Mumbai, Baroda, 
& Pune
 
South-  Chennai (ZO) 
 
·
Bengaluru, 
Secunderabad, 
Chennai & Kochi
 
24
 
International
 
NIL
 
 
1 Liaison oﬃce in Bangladesh
1
 
Bhubaneshwar, 
Jamshedpur, Raipur, 
Kolkata, Indore, 
Guwahati & Patna
·
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
 
17. Product/ Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity's turnover):
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/ oﬃces of the entity are
situated:
 
75
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
19. Markets Served by the Entity:
 
 
a.    Number of Locations: 
Location
 
Number 
 
National (No. of States) 
 
Pan India  
International (No. of Countries) 
 
KSB exports to many countries worldwide   
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
KSB India’s
 
export contribution is 14% of the total turnover of the entity. 
 
c.
A Brief on types of customers? 
Our customers include diﬀerent public sector enterprises, various EPC/LSTK/other contractors, 
dealers, retailers, direct customers, corporates, semi government bodies, online buyers, 
inter-company exports etc.
 
IV. Employees: 
20. Details as at the end of the Year 2024:
a. Employees and Workers
Employees (including diﬀerently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
 
Total 
(A)
 
Male
 
Female
Number 
(B)  
%
(B/A)
 
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
1.
Permanent Employees
1,654
1,532
92.62%
122
7.38%
2. 
Other than Permanent 
Employees
208
 
144
 
69.23%
 
64
30.77%
3. 
Total Employees (1+2) 
1,862
1,676
90.01%
186
9.99%
Workers (including diﬀerently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
 
Total 
(A)
 
Male
 
Female
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
 
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
4.
Permanent Workers
 
726
 
724
99.72%
2
0.28%
5.
Other than Permanent 
Workers
117
 
110
94.02%
 
7
5.98%
6.
Total Workers (4+5)
843
834
98.93%
9
1.07%
b.
 
Diﬀerently abled Employees and Workers
The Company currently has no diﬀerently abled employees but remains committed to workforce 
diversiﬁcation and is actively working towards making its infrastructure accessible to all.
76
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
V. 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
VI. 
CSR Details
 
 
 
 
21. Participation/ Inclusion/ Representation of Women for year 2023
 
 
 
Particulars
 
Total (A)  
Number of Female (B) 
 
% (B/A) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors 
8
1
12.50%
Key Management Personnel 
3
1
33.33%
 
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers: (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
 
 
Year 2024 
Year 2023
 
 
Year 2022
Male
 
Female
 
Total 
Male 
Female
 Total
 Male
 
Female
 
Total
 
10.44%
 
14.75%
 
25.20% 
4.97%  20.16%  25.13%
 
7.98%
 
0.91%
 
8.89%
Permanent 
Employees 
Permanent 
Workers 
 
 5.11%
0.00%
 
5.11%
 
16.08%
 
40.00% 
55.08% 
-
 
-
 
-
Particulars
 
24. CSR related details
 
as per 
(i). Whether CSR is applicable 
Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 
(Yes/No) 
Yes 
 
(ii). Turnover (in INR.) 
 
25,330.86 Million 
(iii). Net Worth (in INR.) 
14,250.84 Million
,
 23. (a). Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
 
S. 
No. 
 
Name of the holding/ 
subsidiary/ associate 
company/ joint venture 
(A)
  
Indicate whether 
holding/ subsidiary/ 
associate company/ 
joint venture  
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity 
 
Does the entity indicated at 
Column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the entity 
(Yes/No)
 
 
 
 
 
1.
Pofran Sales and 
Agency Limited 
Subsidiary Company 
100%
No
 
 
2.
KSB MIL Controls 
Limited 
Associate Company 
49%
No
 
 
 
 
 
77
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
*: The ﬁgure includes Customer claims registered in SAP as well as Toll free registrations.
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances:
25. Complaints/ Grievances on any of the Principles (1-9) under the National Guidelines on 
     Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
Group
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism
in place 
(Y/N)
(Provide 
web-link of 
policy)
 
Current Year 2024
Previous Year 2023
No. of 
comp-
laints 
ﬁled
 
No. of 
comp-
laints 
pending 
 
at close 
 
of year
 
Remarks
No. of 
comp-
laints 
ﬁled
 
No. of 
comp-
laints 
pending 
at close 
of year
Remarks
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes
 
0
 
0
 
-
 
0
 
0
-
Shareholders
Yes
 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Employees 
and Workers
Yes
 
0
 
0
 
-
 
0
 
0
-
Customers
Yes
 
20,466*
0
 
23,275*
0
Value Chain 
partners
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Communities
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Implementati
on Partners
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
26.  
Overview of the entity's material responsible business conduct issues 
 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to 
environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, 
rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its 
ﬁnancial implications, as per the following format:
Claims managem
ent enters all 
recorded 
complaints into 
the SAP system. 
Monthly claim 
meetings 
are held at 
various 
places to 
determine what's 
necessary 
to be accomplis
hed to address 
complaints.
78
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
1
Climate 
Change
 
Risk 
 
Our organization 
 
and the
 
value chain 
are at acute and 
 
long-term physical risk 
from climate change. 
So to be prepared for 
emergency situations, 
we
 
have identiﬁed 
climate change as a 
risk.
 
Using the speciﬁc GPS 
data (geographic 
coordinates) of the 
facilities, our insurance 
broker provided our 
parent business with 
concrete risk assessment 
data for climate risks in 
order to more precisely 
identify the various 
climate hazards across 
our manufacturing sites. 
 
Emergency plans have 
been updated accordingly, 
and relevant locations 
have hosted simulated 
drills for such scenarios.
Insuﬃcient readiness 
for certain unforeseen 
circumstances may 
result in medical 
concerns for employees, 
impact investments, 
asset damage, supply 
chain disruption, 
regulatory impacts and 
a loss in operational 
productivity.
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identiﬁed
 
Indicate 
whether risk 
or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity 
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
 
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
2
Energy 
Management
 
Opportunity
Opportunities include 
lowering carbon 
emissions and 
supporting climate 
goals. Energy access is 
improved by 
decentralized 
renewable energy 
systems without 
relying on the grid.
 
Upgrade equipment and 
processes to consume less 
energy. Adopt solar 
panels, windmills energy 
eﬃcient technologies to 
lower the carbon 
footprints.
 
KSB has a 4.6 MWp 
rooftop
 
solar capacity.  In 
CY 2024, KSB has 
implemented the “Power  
PurchaseAgreement” for 
the renewable energy 
generation & utilization 
with the capacity of 
renewable energy 6.65 
MWp. By taking these 
initiatives, KSB
 
started 
using
 
the 37% renewable 
energy share in total 
consumption of 
electricity.
 
 
Positive Implications: 
Eﬃcient energy use can 
reduce operational cost. 
Lower non-renewable 
energy consumption 
reduces GHG emissions 
and pollution. Promote 
the use of renewable 
energy, reducing 
reliance on fossil fuels. 
 
 
79
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identiﬁed
 
Indicate 
whether risk 
or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity 
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
 
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
 
3 Water 
Management 
 
Risk & 
Opportunity
 
Water scarcity is a 
quiet disaster in India, 
and manufacturing 
companies are 
particularly vulnerable 
to it due to the 
country's unpredictable 
rainfall. 
 
For the company's 
domestic
 
and 
production operations, 
fresh water is a crucial 
component.
 
Inadequate water 
management results in 
both legal violations 
and water shortages.
 
We have implemented
 
advanced ﬁltration and 
treatment
 
plants to recycle 
the wastewater and reused 
it. In CY 2024 KSB has 
recycled and used 39.3 
Mio Litters of 
waste water.We have 
ensured that strict 
regulations on industrial 
pollutants and better 
waste water disposal 
methods
 
are being 
followed. We have taken 
proactive measures like 
replacing aging pipes to 
prevent leakages and 
contaminations. We are 
collecting and storing 
rainwater for industrial 
and domestic use.
 
Water shortages could 
disrupt operations, and 
violating water 
regulations can result in 
ﬁnes and penalties.
4
 
Waste 
Management 
 
Risk and 
Opportunity
 
Waste (both hazardous 
and non-hazardous) is 
one of the focus areas 
under sustainability. 
Ineﬀective waste 
management creates 
environmental hazards 
and legal violations.
 
The company 
implemented several 
initiatives, such as 
environmentally 
appropriate disposal method 
and waste management. 
Recycle, Reuse, and 
Reduce are the 3 R's that 
the company adheres to. 
The company is working 
towards a landﬁll with zero 
waste.
 
The company has 
achieved “Zero Waste to 
Landﬁll” certiﬁcations for 
several locations.
Company saves money 
by reducing waste and 
reused/recycled material. 
Waste management 
supports industries such 
as recycling, reusing, 
composting and energy 
recovery.  No other impact
other than ﬁnes/penalties.
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
Supply Chain 
Sustainability
 
Risk
 
The company aims to 
create a sustainable 
supply chain and 
provide awareness to 
the business partners
 
for sustainability 
topics.
 
Furthermore, 
any violation of ESG 
standards will have a 
negative eﬀect on the 
company's operations 
and reputation in 
addition to the 
supplier's business.
We have selected top 
spending suppliers for 
sustainability assessment 
and training. accordingly,
 
we have ﬁnished 
sustainability assessments 
and trainings for 64% of 
total selected suppliers. 
 
Lowers the risk of 
ﬁnancial loss due to 
supply chain 
interruption in case of 
major violation of non-
compliance of 
government rules and 
regulations
 
80
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 
 
Risk and 
Opportunity
 
Risk of failure to comply 
with the safe working 
practices established 
by the organization in 
accordance with 
OHSMS ISO: 
45001:2018
 
and 
legislative standards.
 
 
KSB's all  
manufacturing facilities are 
holding OHSMS ISO: 
45001:2018 certiﬁcation.
 
Each manufacturing 
facility has appointed safety 
oﬃcers to foster a culture 
of safety and raise 
awareness of safety 
throughout the company.
 
There are emergency and 
contingency plans in place 
for various risks. 
Emphasizing safety 
fundamentals, required 
training, and awareness at 
all levels is continuous and 
ingrained in the 
organization's culture.
 
There are procedures in 
place for issues reporting 
and investigation, followed 
by engineering control and 
a corrective plan.
Inadequate safety 
management can result 
in lost man-days, lower 
operational productivity, 
and a damaged 
reputation for the 
business.
 
 
 
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identiﬁed
 
Indicate 
whether risk 
or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity  
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
 
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
6
 
 
7
Risk and 
Opportunity
 
As the company 
expands, there's an 
increased risk of 
data breaches and 
noncompliance 
with privacy 
regulations. With 
the growth of our 
services, there's a 
higher chance of 
operational f ailure, 
potentially 
disrupting 
continuity.
 
System availability is
crucial for productivity 
and impacts the 
services delivered to 
clients
The KSB group has 
established a Data 
Protection Management 
System (DPMS) to ensure 
ongoing compliance with 
data protection 
regulations. This system 
incorporates preventive 
measures to mitigate 
potential risks and 
supervisory measures for 
monitoring. It covers 
planning, organization, 
implementation, control, 
and monitoring to meet 
legal and operational 
data protection 
requirements, including 
GDPR compliance.
Any incident has a direct 
impact on the company's 
operational eﬃciency via 
its IT systems, leading to 
regulatory consequences 
and potential damage to 
reputation, which could 
translate into ﬁnancial 
repercussions.
IT security, 
data 
protection 
and system 
availability
81
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
8
 
Governance 
and ethics
 
Risk and 
Opportunity
 
At KSB, Governance 
and Ethics are 
fundamental 
principles ingrained 
in our culture. We 
craft our governance 
framework to 
promote ethical 
conduct throughout 
the organization. It's 
clear that lasting 
success requires a 
strong governance 
structure and ethical 
culture.
 
KSB has implemented 
policies, procedures, and 
structures to promote 
ethical conduct and 
ensure a strong 
governance framework. 
The KSB Group's Code of 
Conduct outlines 
expected behaviours
 
for 
KSB and its employees 
during
 
business activities.
 
The whistle- blower policy, 
along with various 
reporting channels, is 
essential for identifying 
and resolving any issues 
that may arise. The Audit 
Committee conducts 
regular evaluations of these 
processes to conﬁrm their 
eﬃciency and alignment 
with established norms.
 
Non compliance with 
corporate governance 
regulations can result in 
adverse outcomes for 
the company, such as 
ﬁnancial penalties 
and 
harm to its reputation.
Moreover, incidents that, 
while not necessarily 
violating regulations, 
raise doubts about the 
ethical conduct of 
business activities, carry 
the risk of diminishing 
the company's prestige 
and reputation
 
Regulatory 
expectations for 
governance are 
evolving, emphasizing 
accountability, 
transparency, and 
fairness. For KSB, 
compliance with 
current regulations is 
essential, but we also 
prioritize proactive 
readiness for future 
regulatory demands.
 
initiatives. Several 
measures, including 
comprehensive 
cybersecurity assessments, 
have been completed to 
bolster overall security 
posture.
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identiﬁed
 
Indicate 
whether risk 
or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity 
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
 
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
 
Additionally, KSB has taken 
steps to guarantee system 
availability and has 
undertaken global and local 
cybersecurity initiatives. 
82
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES  
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in 
place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
 
Policy and Management  Processes
 
Disclosure Questions
 
P1
 
P2
 
P3
 
P4
 
P5
 
P6
 
P7
 
P8
P9
1.a.Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover 
each principle and its
 
core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
Yes
b. Has the policy been approved by the 
 
Board?(Yes/No)*
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
Yes
c.Web Link of the policies,if available
 
The Policies / Codes required to be Statutorily disclosed 
are available on website of the Company at 
www.ksbindia.co.in and other policies are available in
company's internal network
 
2.Whether the entity has translated
    the policy into procedures? (Yes/No)
 
 
Yes
 
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
Yes
3.Do the enlisted policies extend to
    your value chain partners?
    (Yes/No)
 
 
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
Yes
Yes
4. Name of the national and 
international codes/certiﬁcations/labels/standards 
(e.g., Forest Stewardship Council,
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance,Trustee)  
standards(e.g.,SA8000,OHSAS,
ISO,BIS)adopted by your entity
and mapped to each principle.  
 
 
·
 
ISO 9001:2015
 
·
 
ISO 14001:2015
 
·
 
ISO 45001:2018
 
·
 
PED 2014/68/EU
 
·
 
ISO 19443: 2018
 
·
 
ISO/IEC 17025:2017
 
·
 
TSG Certiﬁcation
 
5.Speciﬁc commitments, goals, and
   targets set by the entity with 
   deﬁned timelines, if any.
 
 
In alignment with KSB Germany Group targets, our
management vision and commitment to sustainable 
business practices, we have established key performance
indicator (KPI) targets and goals to drive meaningful
progress towards our corporate sustainability objectives.   
 
Environment goals include 
 
 
·
 
30% Absolute reduction in GHG emission by 2025 
over base line 2022
 
·
 
40% green energy generation by 2025
6% reduction in freshwater consumption in   
facilities by 2025 from 2022 level
 
 
·
 
IGBC platinum certiﬁcation for Sinnar plant by 
2025
 
·
80% preferred suppliers (Critical Tier I) 
assessment for their sustainability performance 
by 2025 
·
80% ESG awareness training completion for 
employees, workmen& suppliers by 2025
·
83
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Disclosure Questions
 
P1
 
P2
 
P3
 
P4
 
P5
 
P6
 
P7
 
P8
P9
 
The organization invests in speciﬁc initiatives and programs that 
aim to improve waste management, lower greenhouse gas 
emissions, conserve energy, manage water eﬀectively, and improve 
environmental procedures.
 
Point 5 mentions the targets and goals that
 
are set by KSB. These 
goals and objectives are in eﬀective up to CY 2025. The following 
represents the accomplishment of the goals and targets in CY 
2024–
 
Environment Goals Achievement:
 
·
 
KSB achieved 35% reduction in GHG emissions compared 
with FY 2023. 
 
·
 
KSB increased green energy generation share by 37%
·
 
KSB completed 64% top selling supply chain assessments in 
CY 2024.
 
·
 
64% suppliers are beneﬁted by the ESG awareness training 
given by the KSB.
 
·
 
KSB achieved “Zero Waste to Landﬁll” certiﬁcation for there 
manufacturing sites (Chinchwad, Shirwal and Sinnar).
·
 
To save water, KSB is building a farm pond with a capacity 
of 1 Crore Ltr to store rainwater. The project is 
expected to be ﬁnished in year 2025.
·
Sinnar plant platinum certiﬁcation is under progress. This is 
expected to be ﬁnished in year 2025.
6. Performance of the entity against
the speciﬁc commitments, goals, 
and targets along with reasons 
incase the same are not met.
rd
· 
Zero waste to land ﬁll 3  party assurance for all 
locations by 2025, 
· 
Ecofriendly packaging, particularly cardboard sheet 
boxes by 2025.
Social goals include
· 3 training man days per employee by 2024
· 8.5% of female employees by 2024 
· Diﬀerenctly abled employees one of the plants by 2024 
· Complete comprehensive trainings on Human Rights for all 
the employees and workmen by 2024 
· Complete Human Right Due Diligence audit through external 
party by 2024 
Governance goals include
·  100% coverage for detailed Risk Management training for 
new Managers & above employees, and other employees 
identiﬁed by HODs, annually. 
·   Refresher training, once in 2 years, for existing Managers & 
above employees, & other identiﬁed employees and Year-
wise full implementation of the measures for issues identiﬁed 
during Comprehensive Cyber security assessment conducted 
in FY 2023, as approved by the Board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
84
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. Statement by the director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG 
related cha llenges, targets, and achievements (listed entity has ﬂexibility regarding the placement 
of this disclosure)
At KSB Limited, we are steadfast in our dedication to sustainability as we continue to manage the 
ever-changing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) challenges
It is abundantly clear to us that environmental consciousness is paramount. We have reinforced 
our commitment to reducing our environmental eﬀect and encouraging responsible resource 
management in the face of persistent ESG issues, such as resource shortages and climate change. 
We have been working to make our operations more eﬃcient, lower our carbon footprint, and 
conserve natural resources wherever we can.
Our sustainability agenda has advanced signiﬁcantly over the course of the year. This entails 
ongoing enhancements to our goods, procedures, and services in order to conform to sustainable 
development ideals and establish new benchmarks for the sector.
We have top-notch facilities in India to help customers, design and test products, make them, and 
ensure they're the best in ﬂuid mechanics. To further demonstrate our dedication to ethical 
business practices, our production facilities are certiﬁed to environmental and occupational 
health and safety management requirements.
We extend our commitment to responsible business practices by integrating fair working 
conditions and good environmental practices throughout the value chain by making our business 
partners aware of sustainability.
With pride I would like to mention our accolades like IGBC Certiﬁcation, Sustainability 
Champion Award, VDMA Manufacturing Excellence Award, Conclave Award, and many more 
to come.
We are prioritising our ESG initiatives in areas like Energy Management, Emissions 
Management, Water Management, Waste Management, Occupational Health and Safety, 
Digitization of Operations, Data Security and Data Protection, Human Rights, etc.
 
 
 
Social Goals Achievement:
 
·
3.9 Training Man days per employee in CY 2024
 ·
Total 7.2% Female employees in CY 2024 
 
 
 
·
Training on Human Rights: POSH Training Business Code 
, 
of Conduct No Child Labour at Work Equal Remuneration  
to Male & female
 
 
 
 
 
Governance Goals Achievement:
 
·
 
Detailed Risk management training conducted for all new 
employees in the category managers & above, and for other 
employees identiﬁed by HODs
 
·
 
Year wise implementation of the measures for issues 
identiﬁed during Comprehensive Cyber security assessment 
conducted in FY 2023 is ongoing and as per schedule. 
85
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Policy and Management Processes
 
8. Details of the highest authority  
responsible for implementation
 
and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy(ies)
 
Mr. Rajeev Jain  
Managing Director (MD)  
9. Does the entity have a speciﬁed 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues?  
(Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
 
Committed to sustainability, our internal ESG Committee drives 
company-wide initiatives. Led by the Managing Director, they 
develop and oversee ambitious goals, reporting progress to the 
Board alongside regular business updates. This ensures strong 
leadership and accountability for our ESG strategy.
 
 
10.Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
 
Subject for Review
 
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/ Committee of the Board/Any other Committee 
and Frequency(Annually/Halfyearly/Quarterly/ AnyOther 
please specify)
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action; and
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectiﬁcation of any
non-compliances
The policies of the company as a practice are periodically 
reviewed by departmental or business heads and Directors of 
the company, basis the business needs and external changes. 
During the review, eﬃcacy of the policies is assessed, and as 
applicable, necessary amendments are made to the policies 
and the associated procedures and processes. The policies on a 
periodic and need basis undergo review by the Board of the 
Directors, regarding regulation requirements and compliances.
 
 
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
KSB India has oﬃcially signed Power Purchase Agreement with Sunsure energy (renewable 
energy provider) which will support us in achieving our sustainability goals by oﬀsetting major 
chunk of our CO2 emissions. By next year 70% of our power generation will be green power.
Our DEI policies and practices are designed and implemented in a way that accommodates 
people from various backgrounds, making them feel welcome and enabling them to perform at 
the peak of their abilities in the workplace.
Together, we will shape the upcoming decades and beyond. I would close by saying that,
however good we are today, there is always a scope for better and the best
Note : The statutory policies are approved by the Board or Board Committees, as applicable. Other 
applicable policies are either approved by the Board or by the appropriate authority.
86
 
11.Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
     agency? (Yes/No). If “Yes”, provide name of the agency.
 
P1  
P2
 
P3
 
P4
 
P5
 P6
 P7
 P8
 P9
The policies of the company are reviewed internally by various committees on need basis and third-party 
agencies are engaged for carrying audits and assurance as part of compliance requirements, which inter-alia 
includes policy review and assessment on a periodic basis.
 
12. If Answer to Question (1) Above is “NO”, i.e., not all Principles are covered by a Policy, reasons to 
      be stated:
P1
 P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
NA
 NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Questions
The entity does not consider the 
principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
The entity is not at a stage where it is 
in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on speciﬁed 
principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the ﬁnancial 
or human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next 
ﬁnancial year (Yes/No)
Any Other Reason (please specify)
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
87
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
SECTION C: Principle Wise Performance Disclosure
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core 
Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and 
“Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to 
ﬁle this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a 
higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
Essential Indicators
Highlights 
 
28 Nos 
Awareness Programs conducted 
for ESG related issues for value 
chain partners.
 
64%
 
 
 
238 Nos  
1.  Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the Principles during the 
ﬁnancial year:
Board of 
Directors
 
4
 
The Board of Directors participates in 
familiarization and awareness programs, including 
plant visits. 
Key topics covered in these programs include: 
 
·
 
Business and Operations: Insights into company 
strategies, performance, and operations.
 
·
 
Regulations and Compliance: Updates on 
relevant legal and regulatory changes.
 
·
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: 
ethical business practices and governance 
standards.
 
·
 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG): 
Focus on sustainability, social responsibility, 
and governance frameworks.
 
·
 
Financial and Taxation Topics: Updates on 
ﬁnancial health, accounting, and taxation.
 
·
Risk Management: business 
risks and mitigation strategies.
·
Internal Controls: internal 
processes to ensure operational integrity.
100%
(As per applicability to 
retired/newly 
appointed Directors)
 
 
Segment  
Total 
number of
 
training 
and awareness
 
programs 
held
Topics/ Principles covered under training 
and its impact
% of persons in 
respective 
category covered 
by the 
awareness programs
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a 
manner that is Ethical, Transparent, and Accountable
of selected Value Chain 
parterner assessed for ESG 
performance
Trainings provided on Ethics 
and Human Rights to Employees 
and Workers.
Essential Indicators
88
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
Additionally, the Board receives frequent updates on 
developments in the company, key regulatory changes, 
risks, legal cases, and compliance, which helps ensure 
they are well-equipped to make informed decisions 
and maintain strong oversight.
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
3
 
The Company’s KMP and employees participated in various 
training programs throughout the year, utilizing a hybrid 
learning approach that combined virtual classroom sessions 
with e-learning modules. In addition to individual training in 
speciﬁc areas of interest, the Company oﬀered several 
organization-wide programs, including Compliance Training, 
Information and Cyber Security Awareness, Code of 
Conduct, POSH Awareness, Introduction to ESG Initiatives, 
general awareness sessions, and CSR programs.
100%
Employees
other 
than BoD 
and KMPs
 
 
 
214
 
 
Workers
24
Safety Training Sessions
100%
 
 
 
 
 
2.
 
Details of ﬁnes / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions, in the ﬁnancial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make 
disclosures on the basis of materiality as speciﬁed in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
 
 
 
 
Penalty/ Fine
 
 
 
No penalties / ﬁnes were levied to the company during the period.
 
Particulars  NGRBC
 
Principle
 
Name of the Regulatory/
 
Enforcement Agencies
 
/
 
judicial institutions
 
Amount
 
(in INR.)
 
Brief
 
of
 
 
Case
 
Has an appealbeen
preferred? (yes/ No)
Settlement
 
Compounding
Fee
 
 
Segment  
Total 
numberof
 
training 
and awareness
 
programs 
held
Topics/ Principles covered under training 
and its impact
% of persons in 
respective 
category covered 
by the 
awareness programs
Non-Monetary
 
Imprisonment
 
No non-monetary implications during the period.
-
Punishment
Particulars  NGRBC
 
Principle
 
Name of the Regulatory/
 
Enforcement Agencies
 
/
 
judicial institutions
 
Amount
 
(inINR.)
 
Brief
 
of
 
 
Case
 
Has an appealbeen
preferred? (yes/ No)
100%
89
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed. 
 
 
3.  Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in 
 
Case Details
 
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/judicial 
institutions
 
NotApplicable
 
provide a web
and if available, 
 
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief 
-link to the policy.
 
·
 
The company has adopted ‘Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy’ of KSB Germany. The 
company does not tolerate any bribery and corruption and continues to uphold the highest 
standards of integrity and transparency.
 
·
The policy forms part of the Code of Conduct of KSB Germany for the KSB Group, which is 
available on: www.ksbindia.co.in
 
 
 
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by 
any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
 
Current Year 2024
Previous Year 2023
Directors
 
Nil
 
Nil
 
Key Managerial 
Personnel(KMPs)
 
Nil
 
Nil
 
Employees
 
Nil
 
Nil
 
Workers
 
Nil
 
Nil
 
 
6. Details of complaints with regard to conﬂict of interest:
 
Current Year2024
 
Previous Year 2023
Number
 
Remark
 
Number
 
Remark
Number of complaints received in relation 
to issues of Conﬂict of Interest of the 
Directors
 
 Nil
 
 -
 
 
Nil
 
 
-
 
 Nil
 
 -
 
 
Nil
 
 
-
Number of complaints received in relation 
to issues of Conﬂict of Interest of the 
KMPs
7.
 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to ﬁnes / penalties / 
action taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of 
corruption and conﬂicts of interest.
·
Not Applicable 
 
 
 
 
8. Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services 
procured) in the following format:
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
No.of days of account payables
71
75.20
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
90
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
9.  Open-ness of business 
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and 
related parties along with loans and advances & investments, with related parties,in the 
following format:
 
 
-
Parameter
 
Metrics
 
 
 
Concentration 
of Purchases
 
a.Purchase form Trading House
 
 
 
 
100%
b.Number
 
of
 
trading
 
Houses where
 
purchases are made
 
 
2,500
 
c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses 
as% of total purchases from trading
houses
  
36.00%
Concentration 
of Sales
 
a. Sales to dealers/ distributors as% 
 
46.66%
 
48.66%
b. Number of dealers/ distributors to 
whom sales are made
 
931
 
1497
of total 
c. Number of dealers/ distributors 
to whom sales are made
 
9.97%
 
0.03%
a. Purchases (Purchases with related 
parties/Total Purchases)
 
 
8.25%
b. Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)
 
 
9.68%
c. Loans & advances (Loans & advances 
given to related parties/ Total loans & 
advances)
 
 
-
d. Investments
(Investments in related parties
 
 
/ Total Investments made)
 
 
-
 
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
Leadership Indicators
 
1.  Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the 
ﬁnancial year:
 
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
 
Topics/Principles covered under 
 
the training
 
% of value chain partners covered 
(by value of business done with 
such partners) under the awareness 
programmes 
The top 44 suppliers are selected 
for awareness trainings. And out 
of 44 suppliers we have given the
training to 28 Suppliers.
Environmental Topics, Social 
Topics and Governance topics are 
covered under the training.
 
64%
100%
3,134
21%
5.92%
9.38%
-
-
Share of
RPTs in
91
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
2.
 
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conﬂict of interests involving members 
of the Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
 
·
 
Yes. As part of the Corporate Governance, the Company has adopted best practices on 
reviews of conﬂict of interest of Directors. The Director’s disclosures are placed before the 
Board and conﬂict of interest, if any, is discussed and reviewed. The Board collectively is 
responsible for decision making on conﬂict of interest disclosed to the Board for any business 
decisions, wherein any of the Directors are interested. The Board strictly ensures ethical 
behaviour and there are no instances of conﬂict of interest.
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe 
Highlights 
 
45%
R&D investments towards
 environmental and
 social impact
 
“Product Carbon Footprint”
of Top 3 Selling 
Pump Series
 
46%
Recycled or reused 
input material to total 
material (by value)
used in production
Essential  
Indicators 
 
1.  Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in speciﬁc technologies 
to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and 
capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
 
Current 
Year 2024
 
Previous
Year 2023
 
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D (%)
 
 
 
 
-  Development in Pump Patterns, Valve patterns ultimately 
resulting in Environmental and 
Social beneﬁts. 
-  By implementing the technological solutions, we achieved  
energy savings
-  During replacement of old machines/equipment, we are 
considering energy eﬃciency as a 
selection parameter.  
 
 
Capex (%)
 
 
 
37
19
18
19
92
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
2.
  
a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
b.  If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
 
·
The organization has the procedures in place regarding supplier diversiﬁcation, outsourcing, and 
procurement. Suppliers are chosen through an evaluation and assessment process that takes 
environmental, social, and governance factors into account. Internal and external audits are carried 
out either on-site at supplier locations or remotely. The supplier must meet the Pollution Control 
Board standards' minimal requirements for selection, which include understanding the eﬀects on the 
environment and abiding by all rules and regulations. The most favoured providers are those 
certiﬁed by the ISO 14001 or ISO 45001 systems.
 
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing 
at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) 
other waste.
·
The majority of the company's products are composed of steel or special steel, which has a high 
resale value when its life cycle is over and can be readily recycled by Pollution Control Board 
authorized local vendors. The company uses a limited amount of recycled materials as processed 
inputs because of the nature of its operation. Depending on the demands of a particular customer, 
some products are refurbished by KSB-approved service centres when their useful lives are coming to 
an end.
Plastics (Including Packaging)
Since the majority of the company's products are composed of steel, little or no plastic is available in 
products when the products reach the end of life. However, the packaging plastic is being recycled by 
the Pollution Control Board authorized waste handler. 
E-Waste 
KSB follows the E-Waste Management Rules, 2022, and appoints recyclers who have been approved 
by the Pollution Control Board recycle E- Waste. 
Other Waste (Steel/Special Steel)
As products are majorly made up of steel, at the endlife of product, steel waste is being recycled. In 
our foundry division we are using metal scrap, runners & risers as a raw material to manufacture 
castings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
·
·
·
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). 
If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility 
(EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Yes, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) applies to the company. The recycling plan is      
produced / submitted in compliance with EPR registration to the Central Pollution Control Board.
·
93
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Leadership Indicators 
 
1.
 
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the 
following format?
Life cycle assessments (LCA) have not been performed on any of our products. However, KSB took an 
action regarding the inﬂuence of following top 3 products on climate change. In accordance with ISO 
14067, the KSB team internally determined the product carbon footprint of the top three selling 
pumps. Cradle to Gate serves as the calculation's boundary. The business is creating a thorough 
framework to analyse the life cycle evaluation of its products, as well as their impact on society and the 
environment and the appropriate mitigation measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
NIC 
Code
Name of product/ 
service
 
% of Total 
Turnover 
contributed
 
Boundary for which the 
Life cycle
 
perspective/ 
assessment was conducted
 
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
 
Results communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
If “Yes”, provide 
web- link
 
 
 
2812
  
Gamma 
100-375 GB
-
 
0.80%
 
Product Carbon Footprint 
 
– Cradle to Gate (Including 
Transport up to Client 
Gate)
 
No
 
Yes
 
2812
 
 
5.33%
 
Product Carbon Footprint 
 
– Cradle to Gate
 
No
 
 
No
(Communicated
Internally)
2812
  
 
0.85%
 
 
Product Carbon Footprint 
 
– Cradle to Gate
 
No
 
 
 
2.
 
If there are any signiﬁcant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production 
or disposal of your products / services, as identiﬁed in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments 
(LCA) or through any other means, brieﬂy describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate 
the same.
 
·
 
The company's manufacturing procedures, goods, and services don't pose any signiﬁcant risks 
to society or the environment.
signiﬁcant 
 
3.
 
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production 
(for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
 
Indicate input material
 
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
 
 
 
Steel and Cast Iron Non-
Ferrous(runners & risers)
 
Current Year 2024
Previous Year 2023
46%
39%
 
ETAN 
040-025-160
CORA 
7C25G+UMAI100_
3.722kW
4.  Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tons) 
reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
 
No
(Communicated
Internally)
94
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Particulars
 
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
 
Re-Used
 
Recycled
 
Safely 
Disposed
 
Re-Used
 
Recycled
 
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics 
(including 
packaging)
 
 
-
 
 -
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
-
E-Waste
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
Hazardous
 
Waste
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
Other Waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.
 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials(as percentage of products sold) for each  
product category.
 
Indicate Product Category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % total 
products sold in respective category
In CY 2024, there are no reclaimed products available.
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, 
including those in their value chains 
Highlights 
 
100%
Employees/Workers 
Covered under Health Beneﬁts
 
88 %
Voice Score 
achieved (possitive feedback
of employees survey)
 
100%
Retirement Beneﬁts 
to employees/Workers
Essential Indicators
 
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
95
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
Category  Total
(A)
Health
Insurance
 
Accident
Insurance
 
Maternity
Beneﬁts
 
Paternity
Beneﬁts
 
Day Care
Facilities
Number 
(B)
 
Number
 
(C)
 
%
(C/A)
 
Number
 
(D)
 
%
(D/A)
 
Number
 
(E)
 
%
(E/A)
 
Number
(F)
%
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
 
Male
 
1,532
 
1,532
 
100%
 
1,532
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
Female
122
122
 
100%
 
122
 
100%
 
122
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
122*
100
Total
 
1,654
 
1,654
 
100%
 
1,654
 
100%
 
122
 
7.37%
 
NA
 
NA
 
122
7.37%
Other than Permanent Employees
 
Male
 
144
NA
 
NA
 
144
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
Female
 
64
 
NA
 
NA
 
64
 
100%
 
64
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA*
NA
Total
208
 
NA
 
NA
 
208
 
100%
 
64
 
30.77%
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
2. b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including 
permanent and other than permanent) in the following format
  
FY 2024
 
Current Financial Year
 
FY 2023
Previous Financial Year
Cost incurred on well-
 
being 
measures as a % of 
totalrevenueofthe
 
company
 
0.03%
 
0.02%
 
*Above spending pertains to the costs incurred by the Company for well being measures mentioned in point 1a and 1b. 
Additionally, the Company spends on several other well - being measures for employees and workers. 
-
 
%
(B/A)
 
 
 
Category  Total
(A)
Health
Insurance
 
Accident
Insurance
 
Maternity
Beneﬁts
 
Paternity
Beneﬁts
 
Day Care
Facilities
Number 
(B)
 
Number
 
(C)
 
%
(C/A)
 
Number
 
(D)
 
%
(D/A)
 
Number
 
(E)
 
%
(E/A)
 
Number
(F)
%
(F/A)
Permanent Workers
 
Male
 
724
 
100%
 
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
Female
2
 
100%
 
 
100%
 
2
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA*
NA
Total
 
 
 
100%
 
 
100%
 
2
 
0.27%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
Other than Permanent Workers
 
Male
 
1329
NA
 
NA
 
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
Female
 
61
 
NA
 
NA
 
61
 
100%
 
61
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA*
NA
Total
1390
NA
NA
1390
100%
61
4.38%
NA
NA
NA
NA
%
(B/A)
724
724
2
2
726
726
726
1329
*Applicable as per internal policies in line with statutary requirements.
96
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
2. Details of retirement beneﬁts, for Current Calendar Year and Previous Calendar Year.
 
 
 
Current Year 2024  
 
Previous Year 2023
 
 
 
 
No.of
employees
covered as%
of total
employees
 
No.of
 
workers
 
covered as
 
%
 
of total
 
workers
 
Deducted and
 
 
Depositedwith 
 
the authority
 
(Yes/No/ NA)
 
No.of
 
employees
 
covered
 
 as
 
%
 
of
 
total
 
employees
 
No. of
workers
coveredas
%
 
of total
workers
 
 
 
 
Deductedand
Depositedwith 
the authority
(Yes/ No/NA)
PF
 
100%
100%
 
Yes
 
100%
 
100%
 
Yes
Gratuity
 
100%
 
100%
 
Yes
 
100%
 
100%
 
Yes
ESI
 
NA
 
68%
 
Yes
 
NA
 
68%
 
Yes
3.
 
Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / oﬃces of the entity accessible to diﬀerently abled employees and workers, as per 
the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are 
being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
·
 
The company is making great eﬀorts to make its facilities and future opportunities universally 
accessible in the near future, and one of KSB Ltd's administrative oﬃces is fully accessible to 
 
workers with disabilities.
 
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 
2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
 
·
 
Yes, the company's Code of Conduct, which can be found on its website at www.ksbindia.co.in   
 
 reﬂects its belief in equitable opportunity for all.
 
 
5.
 
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
 
Gender
 
Permanent Employees
 
Permanent Workers
Return to Work
Rate
 
 
Return to Work
Rate
 
Retention Rate
Male
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
Female
 
100%
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
Total
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following 
categories of employees and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Permanent Workers
 
Issues and concerns are raised and resolved through workforce 
associations and unions through discussions and deliberations.
Permanent Employees
 
 
 
Other than Permanent Workers
Employees
 
Retention Rate
Beneﬁts
For our employees, we have grievance cell, where the employees can 
raise their complaint, without the fear of retaliation and their 
concerns will be resolved eﬀectively andin a timely manner. There 
are various forums like communication meetings and functional 
meetings at periodic intervals in respective locations to gauge day-
to-day issues/concerns. In addition to this, company carries out 
employee satisfaction survey (KSB Voice) at a set frequency.
Issues and concerns are raised to and resolved by concerned 
operational heads and/or HR coordinator in respective locations.
97
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
 
Category
 
Current Year 2024  
Previous Year 2023
 
 
 
Total employees/
workers
inrespective
category
(A)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Permanent
Employees
 
 
NA
 
NA
 
 
NA
  
NA
 
 
NA
NA
Male
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
 
Female
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
 
NA
NA
 
726
 
726
 
 
100%
  
727
 
 
727
100%
 
Male
 
724
 
724
 
100%
 
725
 
725
100%
 
Female
 
2
 
2
 
100%
 
2
 
2
100%
8.
 
Details of training given to employees and workers:
 
Category
 
 
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
Total
(A)
 
 
 
Total
(C)
 
 
 
Number
(B)
 
%
(B/A)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employees
 
Male
  
Refer Note below
Female
Total
 
12,378
 
470
 
3.79%
 
11,908
 
96.20%
 
7,660
 
1,837
 
24%
 
5,823
 
76%
 
Workers
 
Male
  
Refer Note below
 
Female
 
Total
552
186
33.69%
366
66.30%
220
-
-
220
100%
%
(B/A)
%
(B/A)
No. of 
employees 
/workers 
inrespective 
category,who
are part of 
Association(s) 
or Unions
(B)
Total employees/
workers
inrespective
category
(A)
No. of 
employees 
/workers 
inrespective 
category,who
are part of 
Association(s) 
or Unions
(B)
Total Permanent
Workers
On Health 
and safety
Measures
On Skill 
upgradation
On Health 
and safety
Measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Number
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number
(D)
%
(D/C)
 Number
(D)
%
(D/C)
Note : Bifurcation data not monitored
98
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of 
 
Category
 
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
 
Total
 
(A)
 
Number 
(B)
 
%(B/A)
 
Total
 
(C)
 
Number 
(D)
 
% (D/C)
Employees
 
Male
 
1,532
1,532
 
100%
 
1,223
 
1,223
 
100%
Female
 
122
122
 
100%
 
98
 
98
 
100%
Total
 
1,654
1,654
 
100%
 
1,321
 
1,321
 
100%
Workers
 
Male
 
724
0
0%
 
725
 
0
 
0%
Female
 
2
 
0
0%
 
2
 
0
 
0%
Total
 
726
 
0
 
0%
 
727
 
0
 
0%
 
 
Note:
 
·
 
The career development ﬁgures are only for the Permanent employees, excluding other than 
permanent employee's category.
Time to time, career development feedbacks are given to extended work force to strengthen their 
skills and competencies. Basis the performance and contribution, due incentives are made 
available to them which act as a motivation for multi-skilling and internal job posting 
opportunities.
·
 
 
10.Health and safety management system:
a. Whether an occupational health and 
safety management system has been 
implemented by the entity? (Yes/No)
 If “Yes”, then coverage of the system.
 
Yes, the implementation of the Occupational Health & 
Safety Management System (ISO 45001:2018) has been 
completed successfully, and the certiﬁcation remains 
valid until July 2025. To further ensure a safe, healthy, 
and comfortable working environment for all 
employees, all Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) 
systems and procedures have been designed in 
compliance with local health and safety rules and 
requirements.
 
 
 
The organization uses the following procedures to 
detect and evaluate work-related risks and hazards on 
a regular and irregular basis to ensure a safe working 
environment. Below measures are on place
·
 
Hazard Identiﬁcation & Risk Assessment 
(HIRA) study
 
·
 
Job Safety Analysis (JSA)
 
·
 
Internal and External Safety Audits
 
·
 
Incident Investigation
 
·
Permit to Work System
·
Hazard and Operability (HAZOP) Study
·
Fire Safety Audit
b. What are the processes used to identify 
work-related hazards and assess risks on a 
routine and non-routine basis of the entity?
99
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
c. Whether you have processes for workers 
to report the work-related hazards and 
to remove themselves from such risks? 
(Yes/No)
 
Yes. Occupational Health & Safety Management 
System - ISO 45001: 2018 is implemented and the 
certiﬁcate is valid till July 2025. In addition, all the 
EHS systemsand procedures are developed 
considering the local health and safety regulations 
and requirements, to ensure a safe, healthy, and 
conducive working environment for all.
 
 
 
To ensure safe working environment, the 
company adopts following processes to 
identify and assess work related hazards and 
risks on a routine and non-routine basis, 
which are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
 
Safety Incidents/ Number
 
Category
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR)(per one million-person 
hours worked)
 
Employees
 
0.22
0
 
Workers
 
0.00
 
3.51
Total recordable work-related injuries
 
 
Employees
 
1
 
2
Workers
 
0
 
0
Number of fatalities
 
Employees
 
0
 
0
Workers
 
0
 
0
High consequence work-related injury 
-
 
or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
 
1
 
0
Workers
0
0
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
 
 
To make sure a safe working environment, KSB Limited appointed "Safety Oﬃcers" to each location. This is a 
crucial practice in cultivating a safe work culture, striving for zero harm or incidents, conducting prompt risk 
assessments, and putting mitigation measures into place, with a particular emphasis on EHS audits and 
compliance.
 
 
The company has established and adopted several safety measures across all locations, including:
 
·
 
Safety walks/observations to identify unsafe conditions, with immediate corrective actions taken 
to close any identiﬁed gaps.
A deﬁned system for hazard identiﬁcation and control is implemented at all locations, reviewed 
periodically to address new hazards and apply necessary controls.
Mandatory safety training is provided to new employees, including contract labour, upon 
joining.
An eﬀective training and education program is in place to enhance EHS awareness for all 
employees and workers.
A process for investigating all EHS-related incidents is followed to prevent recurrence, with 
timely corrective measures implemented to eliminate potential risks.
·
·
 
 
·
 
d. Do the employees/ workers of the entity have 
access to non-occupational medical and 
healthcare services? (Yes/No)
·
100
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
·  Regular risk assessment studies, EHS audits, and inspections of equipment, machines, cranes, 
and lifting gears are conducted.
Emergency preparedness plans are developed for identiﬁed high-risk areas to mitigate 
emergencies within the shortest possible time.
All machines are equipped with maximum safety controls and proper guarding for moving parts, 
minimizing hazards to the greatest extent.
The company ensures facilities like 24/7 ambulance availability, and an emergency alarm system 
that includes smoke detectors, beam detectors, manual call points, and hooters
·  
·  
·
 
 
13.
 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
 
Particulars
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
 
 
Filed
 
Pending 
Resolutionat 
end of year
 
 
Remark
 
Filed
 
Pending 
Resolutionat 
end of year
 
Remark
 
Working 
Conditions
 
 
Nil
 
Nil
 
-
 
 
Nil
 
 
Nil
 
-
Health and 
Safety
 
 
Nil
 
 
Nil
 
-
 
 
 
Nil
 
 
Nil
 
-
14.
 
Assessments for the year :
Particulars
 
% of plants and oﬃces that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third party)
 
 
Health and Safety Practices
 
100%
 
Working Conditions
 
100%
 
Note :The company is ISO certiﬁed, besides the plants undergo timely regulatory safety audits & assessments.
 
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if 
any) and on signiﬁcant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and 
working conditions.
• At KSB, the safety of our employees and extended workforce remains our top priority. This year, we 
continue to focus on both leading and lagging indicators of health and safety through thorough audits 
and assessments to maintain a conducive working environment. In response to audit ﬁndings and 
recommendations, we have implemented initiatives such as comprehensive training programs, safety 
manuals, and visual aids to educate employees and workers on safety measures. These eﬀorts highlight 
our unwavering commitment to cultivating a culture of safety and well-being throughout the 
organization.
Leadership  
Indicators
 
 
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of 
(A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
• Yes, adequate compensation to the family member (nominee) of the deceased employee. Also, the 
company provides fast track settlement of beneﬁts like provident fund, gratuity, and superannuation 
in the event of death of an employee and worker. 
101
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
2.
 
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted 
and deposited by the value chain partners.
 
·
The Company ensures ethical business practices and necessary compliances and disclosures by 
all its service providers, which is incorporated as part of individual business agreements and 
reviewed through periodic assessments.
 
3.
 
Provide the number of employees / workers having suﬀered high consequence work related injury 
/ ill-health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in 
suitable employment:
 
Particulars
 
Total Number of aﬀected 
employees/ workers
 
No. of employees/ workers that are 
rehabilitated or whose family member have been 
placed in suitable employment
Year 2024
 
Year 2023
 
Year 2024
 
Year 2023
Employees
 
1
 
0
 
NA
 
0
 
Workers
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
0
 
4.
 
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
·
 
Capacity building and skill upgradation training are conducted for all employees, which aids 
employees during their retirement phase. In some cases, depending upon the employee expertise 
and business needs, further suitable opportunities are oﬀered to them.
 
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
 
Particulars
 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
 
Health and Safety Practices
Working Conditions
 
This year we have assessed 64% of preferred suppliers for their 
sustainability performance, which include Health and Safety 
practices, and veriﬁcation of working conditions. 
6.  Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signiﬁcant
 
risks / concerns 
arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain 
partners.
 
·
During the reporting period, no signiﬁcant risks were identiﬁed in the supplier assessments. The 
company has implemented a comprehensive vendor assessment framework, which includes 
verifying relevant certiﬁcations from local statutory bodies and other system-related 
certiﬁcations, reviewing EHS practices during the onboarding process, and obtaining 
declarations through registration forms.
 
102
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Essential Indicators  
1.  Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
·
Stakeholder groups are identiﬁed based on the nature of their engagement with the entity. The Company considers 
government bodies, regulators, employees, suppliers, dealers, retailers, shareholders and investors, direct customers, 
contractors, plumbers, communities, NGOs, and media as our key stakeholders that contribute to shaping our 
business. Our stakeholders add value and constitute a core part of our business value chain, therefore, ensuring 
continuous engagement and interaction through various channels which strengthens our relationship with identiﬁed 
stakeholders.
2. List stakeholder groups identiﬁed as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement 
with each stakeholder group.
 
Investors and 
Shareholders
 
No
 
Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), 
Investors Meet, 
Newsletter, Forum 
Meetings, Website, 
& Press Release (PR) 
 
Regularly
Keytopics: Updates on the company's 
ﬁnancial performance, strategic 
initiatives, growth potential, 
opportunities, risks, ESG objectives, 
actions, and signiﬁcant events that 
c o u l d  a ﬀe c t  t h e  c o m p a n y ' s 
performance and brand reputation.
 
Stakeholder Group
Identiﬁed as 
Vulnerable or 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
Communication
 
Frequency of 
engagement
 
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during each engagement
 
Communities 
Beneﬁciaries
Yes
-
Email, telephone, in
person meetings, and 
ﬁeld visits
Regularly and 
need based
Identifying areas for CSR activities, 
assessing community needs, 
prioritizing CSR initiatives, and 
gathering feedback on the impact 
and outcomes of CSR projects.
 
 
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its 
stakeholders
Highlights
 
 
64%
 
 
Value Chain Partners 
trained on ESG Disclosures.
 
Stakeholder’s feedback
 
 
 considered into business decisions and 
considering their perspectives 
wherever possible.
.
 
103
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
NGO (Implementing 
partners for CSR 
activities)  
No
Email, telephone, in-
person meetings, and 
ﬁeld
 
visits
 
Monthly and 
need based
Assessment of needs, development of 
project implementation plans, review 
and corrective actions, and monitoring 
the progress of CSR projects.
Dealers
 
No
Dealer meets, Field 
visits, Physical and 
virtual meetings, 
Training sessions, 
Dealer Conferences, 
and Email 
communication
Fortnightly 
and need 
based
 
Regularly communicate with our 
dealers to keep them updated on new 
products and the latest developments in 
our oﬀerings. Additionally, collaborate 
with dealers to enhance the reach of our 
products through various marketing 
initiatives.
Organize dealer meetings and 
exhibitions regularly to foster 
interactions and gain insights into 
evolving customer expectations.
Direct Customers/ 
Consumers
 
No
Physical meets, Calls, 
Email, Events, 
Exhibitions, Plant 
visits, and 
Demonstrations
 
Regularly and 
need based
We continuously strive to enhance our 
processes and systems to gather 
valuable feedback and ideas from our 
stakeholders. KSB arranges plant visits 
for our esteemed customers, and we 
conduct periodic Customer Satisfaction 
Surveys to assess their feedback.
Employees and 
Workers
 
No
Email, in-person 
meetings, website, 
Newsletter, Press 
Release, Forums, 
communication meets 
and employee surveys
 
Daily and 
need based
 
Employee involvement, human resource 
enhancement, skill development, career 
advancement, safety education, ESG 
and CSR endeavors and the company's 
dedication to ESG.
 
Government Bodies 
and Industry 
Associations
 
No
Email, website, Press 
Release, and 
Regulatory Forums
 
Regularly and 
need based
New initiatives, regulations and 
statutory reporting and project 
implementation
Media
 
No
Press Release and 
Email
 
Regularly and 
need based
 
We nurture connections with the media 
through press releases, plant tours, and 
interviews to build the company's 
credibility, trustworthiness and 
transparency.
 
Stakeholder Group
Identiﬁed as 
Vulnerable or 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
 
Channels of 
Communication
 
Frequency of 
engagement
 
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during each engagement
Leadership  
Indicators
 
1.  Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic,  
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such 
consultations provided to the Board.
 
·
 
The consultation with various stakeholders generally happens through the management team. These consultations are 
part of regular interactions with various stakeholders and the board is appraised of the important issues.
104
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
2.
 
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identiﬁcation and management of 
 
environmental, and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the 
inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities 
of the entity.
·
Yes, the CSR projects taken for implementation have inputs from the stakeholders and the projects are 
taken based on the needs identiﬁed by the communities and implementation agency.
3.
 
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of 
vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups.
·
 
 
The Company identiﬁes the needs of the communities in local areas and engages with the communities 
and implement the suitable projects for addressing the needs of the community. The details are provided 
in Principle 8 to this report.
Essential  Indicators
 
1.  Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and 
policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format:
 
Category
 
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
 
Total
Number
 
%
 
Total
 
Number
 
%
(A)
(B)
 
(B/A)
 
(C)
 
(D)
 
(D/C)
Employees
 
Permanent
1,532
1,532
 
100%
 
1,321
 
1,321
 
100%
Other than
 
permanent
122
122
 
100%
 
132
 
132
 
100%
Total
Employees
1,654
1,654
100%
1,453
1,453
100%
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Highlights 
 
100%  
Training on Human Rights 
issues to Employees and 
Workers
Equal  
 
Pay Policy 
considering diversity
 
Zero  
 
Complaints ﬁled under the 
Sexual Harassment of 
Womenat Workplace
*:Human Rights trainings include Code of conduct, POSH and other related topics.
105
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
 
 
 
Employees
Permanent
 
-
-
-
-
-
 
Male
 
-
-
-
-
-
 
Female
-
-
-
-
Other 
than
Permanent
 
-
-
-
-
-
 
Male
 
 
-
 
-
 
 
 
 
-
 
-
 
 
-
Female
 
1,411
1,302
109
238
183
55
-
-
 
1,411
1,302
109
238
183
55
 
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
1,321
1,223
98
132
99
33
-
-
1,321
1,223
98
132
99
33
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
 
 
Category
Current Year 2024 
Previous Year 2023
 
Total
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
MinimumWage
Total
(D)
Equal to 
MinimumWage
More than 
MinimumWage
Number
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number
(C)
%
(C/A)
Number
(E)
%
(E/D)
Number
(F)
%
(F/D)
Workers
 
Permanent
684
-
-
 
684
 
728
 
-
 
-
766
100%
Male
 
682
-
-
 
682
 
 
726
 
-
 
-
763
100%
Female
2
-
-
 
2
 
100%
100%
100%
 
2
 
-
 
-
3
100%
Other 
than
Permanent
 
1,683
-
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,561
 
946
60.6%
615
39.3%
Male
 
1,603
-
-
-
-
1,518
926
61.0%
592
39.0%
Female
80
-
-
-
-
43
20
46.5%
23
53.5%
 
 
Category
Current Year 2024 
Previous Year 2023
 
Total
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
MinimumWage
Total
(D)
Equal to 
MinimumWage
More than 
MinimumWage
Number
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number
(C)
%
(C/A)
Number
(E)
%
(E/D)
Number
(F)
%
(F/D)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.
 
Detailsof
 
remuneration/salary/wages
 
(a) Median remuneration/wages:
 
 
Particulars
 
Male
Female
 
Number
 
Median salary/ wage of 
respective category (INR)
 
 
Number
 
Median salary/ 
wage of respective 
category (INR)
Board of 
Directors(BoD)
 
  
Details are mentioned in  Annexure V of the Board’s Report
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Employees other than  
BoD and KMP
1,527
10,30,463
121
10,27,249
Workers
724
10,85,302
2
11,01,065
106
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following 
format:
Gross wages paid to females 
as%of total wages
Current Year 2024 
3.94%
 
3.92%
 
 
Previous Year 2023 
4.  Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights  
impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 
·
The Human Resource(HR) Head of the company is responsible for ensuring ethical behavior within the 
organization. In the event of any violation, he is accountable for promptly and transparently addressing 
concerns or issues without any form of retaliation. The Company has grievance redressal policy in place. 
Additionally, the Audit Committee oversees the whistle blower mechanism, and the POSH  Internal 
Committee supervises sexual harassment complaints.
 
 5.
 
Describe
 
the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 
·
The Code of Conduct serves as a robust deterrent against misconduct and fosters equal opportunities for 
all. The company has established policies including the POSH Policy (Internal Complaints 
Committee),Code of Conduct(Ombudsman),and Whistle blower system(Designated email id and 
dropbox). These policies outline speciﬁc mechanisms for addressing grievances.
 
 
 
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
 
Particulars
 
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
Filed 
during the
 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remark
 
Filed 
during 
the year
 
Pending 
resolution at  
end of year
Remark
 
Sexual Harassment
 
0
0
 
-
 
 
0
 
0
 
-
 
Discrimination at workplace
 
0
0
 
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
 
Child Labor
 
0
0
 
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
 
Forced Labor/ 
Involuntary Labor
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights related 
issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.
 
Complaints ﬁled under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format:
 
Current Year 2024
Previous Year 2023
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
 
0
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0
0
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
107
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
8.  Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and 
harassment cases.
 
·  The Company upholds a robust Code of Conduct and has established a whistle-blower mechanism. 
Additionally, an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) is in place to address any instances of sexual 
harassment in the workplace. The Company actively promotes reporting of harassment, 
discrimination, or oﬀensive behavior without the fear of retaliation. Investigations and necessary 
actions will be carried out as deemed appropriate. Regular training and awareness sessions, 
including mandatory modules, are conducted periodically to ensure employees are fully equipped.
 
 
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
 
·
 
10.
  
Assessments for the year:
 
Particulars
 
% of plants and oﬃces that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
 
Child Labor
 
 
 
 
No such assessments were carried out during the reporting 
period.
 
Forced/Involuntary Labor
 
Sexual harassment
 
Discrimination at workplace
 
Wages
 
 
11.  Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signiﬁcant risks / 
concerns arising from the assessments at Question 10 above.
 
·
 
The company maintains robust human rights standards, resulting in no reported cases of child 
labor, forced or involuntary labor, sexual harassment, or discrimination of any kind in the 
workplace against any of our employees or extended workforce.
 
Leadership Indicators
1.
 
Details of a business process being modiﬁed / introduced as a result of addressing human rights
 grievances/complaints.
 
·
 
 
 
2.
 
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
 
 
·
 
 
 
3. Is the premise/oﬃce of the entity accessible to diﬀerently abled visitors, as per the requirements 
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Yes. At KSB, human rights are fundamental to our business, and all matters and concerns are 
diligently addressed throughout our operations and across the value chain by following the policies 
and guidelines outlined in our code. We anticipate our value chain partners to uphold high standards 
of business ethics and integrity.
The Company strives to uphold basic principles of human rights in all its operations through its 
codes and policies. There is a Code of Conduct that sensitizes the employees periodically about 
ethical behavior.
The Company conducts various internal audits and human rights forms an integral part of these 
audits which are conducted on a regular basis to check the compliance requirements and 
recommend remedial action plan, wherever required. However, no formal human rights due 
diligence was conducted during the reporting period.
·
One of the administrative oﬃces at KSB Ltd is fully accessible to diﬀerently abled employees. 
The company is actively engaged in making its premises and future oﬃces universally accessible 
for all in the coming times.
108
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
4.  Details on assessment of value chain partners:
 
 
Particulars  
% of value chain partners (by value of business
 
done with such partners) that were assessed:
 
ChildLabor
 
 
 
 
No such assessments were carried out during the reporting 
period.
 
 
 
Forced / Involuntary Labor
 
Sexual harassment
 
Discrimination at workplace
 
Wages
 
Others-please specify
 
 5.
 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signiﬁcant risks / concerns 
arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
 
·
Whenever deviations from the principles of the Code of Conduct / human rights principles deﬁned in 
the Code are identiﬁed, the Company works with the supplier to clarify how lasting corrective action 
can be taken within a reasonable time frame and takes necessary remedial actions.
 
 
Essential Indicators
 
1.  Details of total energy consumption (in MJ) and energy intensity:
 
Parameter
FY - 2024 
 
(Current Financial Year)
 
 
FY - 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
 
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
2,39,49,270
1,54,32,009
 
Total fuel consumption (B)
 
0
 
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
 
0
 
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources 
(A+B+C)  
2,39,49,270
 
1,54,32,009
 
 
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make eﬀorts to protect and restore the 
environment
Highlights
35% 
GHG Emission
 
Reduction
 
37% 
Renewable Electricity  
Share  
39,360 KL  
Recycled Water
 
 
2  
Sites that are Zero Liquid 
Discharge
 
Certiﬁed
 
 
99% 
Waste diverted from Landﬁll 
(3 Sites)
 
 
28 Nos
 
Value Chain -
 
Environmental 
Impact Assessments done
 
109
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
From non-renewable sources 
 
  
  
 
Total electricity consumption (D)
 
4,04,08,289
 
6,08,42,596
Total fuel consumption (E)
 
2,53,54,198
 
3,06,55,886
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy
 
consumed from non-renewable sources 
(D+E+F)
 
6,57,62,487
 
9,14,98,482
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
 
8,97,11,757
 
10,69,30,491
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
 
0.003541599
  
0.00475839
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
 
 
 0.079331825
 
0.10549346
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
 
Energy intensity in terms of physical output Energy 
intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be    
 
selected by the entity
 
153.82#
  
172.75#
‘#’Only products manufactured/assembled in our facilities are considered (traded products and spares sold by entity are 
excluded)
 
 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If “Yes”, name the external agency: Yes, Independent reasonable level assurance taken on Electricity and 
Fuel Consumption by SGS India.
 
 
2
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identiﬁed as designated consumers (DCs) under the 
Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? If yes, disclose 
whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been  
achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
 
·
 
Not applicable, as the company does not fall in the category of industries mandated under PAT scheme.
 
 
3.
 
Details of the following disclosures related to water:
 
Parameter
 
FY 2024
FY 2023
 
(Current
 
Financial Year)
 
(Previous Financial Year)
 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
 
0
 
0
(ii) Groundwater
 
19,764
16,879
(iii) Third party water (Municipal Corporation)
 
1,86,178
1,82,978
 
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
 
0
 
0
(v) Others
 
0
 
0
Total volume of water withdrawal
 
2,05,942
 
1,99,858
 
(in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
 
Total volume of water consumption
 
2,04,620
1,99,626
(in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
0.000008078
0.000009
(Total water consumption / Revenue
from operations)
110
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
4.
 
Details related to water discharged:
 
 
Parameter  
FY 2024
(Current  Financial Year)
Water discharge by destination and level of
 treatment (in kilolitres)
 
(i) To Surface water
 
  
  
-
 
No treatment
 
0
-
 
With treatment –
 
please specify level of
0
treatment
 
(ii) To Groundwater
 
-
 
No treatment
 
0
-
 
With treatment –
 
please specify level of
0
treatment
 
(iii) To Seawater
 
-
 
No treatment
 
0
-
 
With treatment –
 
please specify level of
0
treatment
 
(iv) Sent to third-parties
 
-
 
No treatment
 
0
-
 
With treatment –
 
please specify level of
0
treatment
 
(v) Others
 
- No treatment
0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment –
Primary Treatment, Secondary Treatment and Tertiary 
Treatment Method
39,566
 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
,
,
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
39 360
39 360
39,566
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption / Revenue
from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.000180945
0.00019953
 
 
 
 
 
0.350860# 
0.3225184#
Water intensity in terms of physical
output Water intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
FY 2023
(Previous  Financial Year)
#’Only products manufactured/assembled in our facilities are considered (traded products and spares sold by 
entity are excluded) Note : The total consumption is for all 6 manufacturing locations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: KSB Manufacturing plants have Eﬄuent and/or sewage treatment plants with Primary, Secondary 
and tertiary treatment. The waste water is treated and reused for the internal purpose only like ﬂushing 
and Gardening etc.  
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?  
If yes, name of the external agency.: Yes, 3 rd Party ZLD Certiﬁcation from SGS India for Chinchwad and
 Coimbatore Plant. 
111
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
·  
 
·  
 
 
 
6.
 
Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:
 
 
Stacks Monitoring
 
–
 
Pimpri Location
 
Parameter
 
specify 
unit
 
 
 
 
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
NOx
 
ug/m3
 
Nil
Nil
SOx
 
Kg/Day
 
5.91
5.96
Particulate Matter (PM)
 
mg/Nm3
 
71.75
70.40
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
 
-
 
-
-
Volatile organic compounds 
(VOC)
 
-
 
-
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
-
-
-
Stacks Monitoring
 
–
 
Chinchwad Location
Parameter
 
specify 
unit
 
 
 
 
NOx
 
mg/Nm3
 
Nil
Nil
SOx
 
Kg/Day
 
1.97
4
Particulate Matter (PM)
 
mg/Nm3
 
73.28
71
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
 
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
 
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
-
 
-
-
Stacks Monitoring
 
–
 
Shirwal Location
 
Parameter
 
specify 
unit
 
 
 
 
NOx
mg/Nm3
Nil
Nil
SOx
Kg/Day
9.90
7
Particulate Matter (PM)
mg/Nm3
67.10
72
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
-
-
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details 
of its coverage and implementation.
·
KSB Limited implemented "Zero Liquide Discharge" Veriﬁcation and Certiﬁcation at two 
manufacturing plants (Power Project Division, Chinchwad and Valves Division, Coimbatore) for CY 
2024. 
·
No waste water is released outside the premises, and all reclaimed water is used exclusively 
internally. 
SGS India, a third party, has veriﬁed and assured two manufacturing units as "ZLD plants." 
To reduce water consumption and limit its demand on fresh water, the organization has been 
rigorously pursuing several programs and initiatives. To treat all its eﬄuents using Primary, 
secondary and tertiary treatment technologies, the company has taken the eﬀort to build an eﬀective 
methodology.
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
112
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
Stacks Monitoring
 
–
 
Coimbatore Location
Parameter  
specify 
unit
 
 
 
 
NOx
 
µg/m3
 
14.90
15.63
SOx
 
µg/m3
 
11.60
13.61
Particulate Matter (PM)
 
µg/m3
 
49.20
37.79
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
 
-
 
-
 
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
 
-
 
-
 
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?  
If yes, name of the external agency.:
No
 
7.
 
Details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity:
Parameter
 
Unit
 
 
 
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the 
GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs,SF6, NF3, if available
 
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
 
2,219
 
2,297
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the 
GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs,SF6, NF3, if available)
 
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
 
8,160
13,690
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations)
0.0000004097
 0.0000007114
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stacks Monitoring
 
–
 
Sinnar Location
 
Parameter
specify 
unit
NOx
mg/Nm3
Nil
Nil
SOx
Kg/Day
35.80
29.60
Particulate Matter (PM)
mg/Nm3
31.60
36.70
Persistent organicpollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
-
-
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stacks Monitoring
 
–
 
Vambori Location
 
Parameter
specify 
unit
NOx
mg/Nm3
Nil
Nil
SOx
Kg/Day
0.60
0.50
Particulate Matter (PM)
mg/Nm3
26.00
Persistent organicpollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
-
-
-
42.50
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
-
113
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
 
(Total Scope 
1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP)
  
 
0.00000917817
 
 
0.0000157719
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity in terms of physical 
output(optional) – the relevantmetric may 
beselected by the entity
0.017796#
0.025828#
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
‘#’Only products manufactured/assembled in our facilities are considered (traded products and spares sold by entity are 
excluded)
Note: The total Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions are for all 6 manufacturing locations. 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external  agency? If “Yes”, 
rd
name the external agency: Yes Independent reasonable level assurance taken on Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions by 3  
Party SGS India. 
 
 
 
8. The entity has projects related to reducing Green House Gas emission:
By optimizing the use of direct fuel in the manufacturing process, increasing the share of renewable energy, 
and eventually implementing several energy-eﬃcient projects to reduce energy consumption, the KSB 
company has begun the decarbonization of its operations. 
With a baseline of 2022, KSB has reduced greenhouse emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 41% in 2024. 
In CY 2024, KSB started tracking the sources of Scope 3 GHG emissions throughout a corporate value 
chain. The company reported that the following categories were signiﬁcantly impacted: Category 2: Capital 
Goods; Category 3: Fuel and Energy-Related Activities; Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations; 
Category 6: Business Travel; Category 7: Employee Commuting; and Category 8: Upstream Leased Assets. 
In CY 2024, KSB reported 4,754 Tons of Co2eq Scope 3 emissions for selected above 6 nos of categories.
We have installed 48 MWh capacity hybrid solar and wind mill at Shirwal plant.
KSB is producing Green energy from 3.27 MWp rooftop solar capacity from last ﬁve years. In FY 2024, KSB 
added additional 1.1 MWp of solar rooftop power for the Coimbatore and Chinchwad plants.
In CY 2024, with “Power Purchase Agreement” for the renewable energy generation & utilization with 
Sunsure Energy of capacity 6.65MWp, Actual consumption of Open Access solar energy started from 
August 2024
KSB is using 37% renewable energy out of total consumption of electricity.
KSB sold around 15,471 solar pumps in CY 2024 which is contributing 7.88% of business of its total 
revenue.
To identify ways to conserve energy, the KSB internal/external energy team regularly conducts energy audits 
in all manufacturing plants.
The KSB team carried out energy-saving initiatives, such as:
o Compressed air system automation
o Using a modern inverter-based air conditioning system in place of one that is conventional
o Using advanced heat pumps in place instead of conventional water heaters
o Using BLDC energy-eﬃcient fans in place over conventional wall-mounted fans
·
 
 
·
 ·
 
·
 
·
 ·
 
 
·
 
 
·
·
·
·
-
-
114
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Category of waste
 
(i) Recycled
 
1,858
680
(ii) Re-used
 
5,673
211
(iii) Other recovery operations
 
15
 
9
Total
 
7,546
900
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
 
(i) Incineration
 
56
 
677
(ii) Landﬁlling
 
14
 
13
(iii) Other disposal operations
 
0
 
6,225
Total
70
6,915
 
‘#’Only products manufactured/assembled in our facilities are considered (traded products and spares sold by entity are 
excluded)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
-
9.
 
Details related to waste management by the entity:
:
 
Parameter
 
FY 2024
 
FY 2023
(Current Financial Year)
 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
 
29.10
3.84
E-waste (B)
 
101.10
0.05
Bio-medical waste (C)
 
0.01
0.01
Construction and demolition
 
103.19
12.00
waste (D)
 
Battery waste (E)
 
5.22
4.40
Radioactive waste (F)
 
0.28
0.23
Other Hazardous waste. Please
 
111.42
122.10
specify, if any. (G)
 
Other Non -hazardous waste generated (H) 
Please specify, if any.
 
7,265.86
7,685.79
(Break-up by composition i.e. by
materials relevant to the sector)
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G
7,616.18
7,828.42
+ H)
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated /Revenue from operations)
0.0000003007
0.0000003484
 
 
 
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste 
generated / Revenue   from   operations adjusted 
for PPP)
0.0000006735
0.0000007723
 
 
 
 
Waste intensity in terms of physical output Waste 
intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
0.013059#
0.12647#
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
115
 
 
 
 
10.Brieﬂy describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments.  Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals  in your products and 
processes and the practices adopted to manage such waste.
·
 
In CY 2024, for the three locations (Chinchwad, Shirwal, and Sinnar), the KSB company completed the 
"Zero Waste to Landﬁll" veriﬁcation & certiﬁcation by a third party SGS India.
The overall waste diversion rate is 99.47% at the Chinchwad location, 98.93% at the Shirwal location, and 
98.6% at the Sinnar location. (The assurance statement by SGS India is attached.)
The KSB company has a robust waste management system, and by 2025, the company plans to have all of 
its sites certiﬁed as "Zero Waste to Landﬁll" by third-party assurance.
The company is dedicated to taking accountability for disposing of waste in accordance with the relevant 
Pollution Control Board rules and regulations.
Waste Generation: 
o We are generating both hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Spent oil, used paint, oil-soaked cotton, 
discarded barrels and containers, dry varnish, e-waste, battery waste, biomedical waste, radioactive 
waste (X-ray ﬁlms), etc. are all categorized as hazardous waste. On the other hand, metal scrap, wooden 
scrap, plastic, corrugated boxes, construction and demolition waste, thermocol, etc. are all categorized as 
non-hazardous waste.
Waste Storage:
o  We have allocated speciﬁc areas for the storage of hazardous and non-hazardous trash in each KSB plant. 
We segregate the waste and kept it in the scrap yard in accordance with the CPCB's policies and 
procedures. We dispose of the waste in compliance with the Pollution Control Board rules and 
regulations either monthly or quarterly. 
Waste Collection:
o  The authorized PCB waste handlers, who are responsible for environmentally responsible practices, 
collects this segregated waste. KSB has waste handlers with PCB authorization.
Waste Transportation:
o  At the vendor's location, waste gets transported by vehicles for processing, such as landﬁlling, recycling, 
reuse, reduction, or incineration. 
Waste Treatment:
o  The goal of waste treatment is to reduce the harm caused by waste to human health and the environment. 
With our waste treatment technologies, we turn waste into valuable resources. To achieve the most 
eﬀective result, we use various methods and technologies, including recycling, composting, waste 
incineration, mechanical-biological treatment, composting, solidiﬁcation or landﬁlling. Recycling helps 
to conserve natural resources, reduce energy usage, and minimize waste.
·
 
·
 
·
 
·
 
·
 
·
·
 
 
 
Note: The total Hazardous and Non-Hazardous waste disposal are for all 6 manufacturing locations. 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? If 
“Yes”, name the external agency: Yes, Third-party SGS India has provided independent assurance on waste 
management and disposal. Three sites (Chinchwad, Shirwal, and Sinnar) of KSB got "Zero Waste to Landﬁll" 
certiﬁcation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
·
11. If the entity has operations/oﬃces in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, 
wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal 
regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please 
specify details in the following format:
 
·  None of KSB Limited’s production facilities are. in ecologically sensitive areas.
 
12.
 
Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on
applicable laws, in the current ﬁnancial year:
 
·
 
KSB's Integrated Management System is certiﬁed to "ISO 9001:2015," "ISO 14001:2015," and "ISO 
45001:2018," which evaluates all business operations for their eﬀects on safety, health, and the 
environment. 
The business complies with all legal requirements for projects started in 2024, and it has been creating a 
system for undergoing environmental impact assessments and certiﬁcation for a number of projects that 
can signiﬁcantly lower the organization's energy, water, and carbon footprint levels.
 
·
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
116
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
13.
 
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, 
such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of 
Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details 
of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
-
 
·
 
The company is compliant with all relevant environmental laws, rules, and regulations in India.
 
 
Leadership Indicators
 
1.
 
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of waters tress(in
kilolitres): For each facility/plant located in areas of waterstress, provide the following
information:
 
(i)
Name of the area
(ii)
Nature of operations
·
Vambori, Ahillyanagar, Maharashtra - Foundry Division
·
Narasimmanaickenpalayam, Coimbatore, Tamilnadu - Valves Operations
(iii)
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
 
 
 
 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)  
(i)Surface  
water
 
0
 
0
(ii)Ground water
 
17,185
16,879
(iii)Third party water
 
 
14,952
18,434
(iv)Seawater/desalinated water
 
0
 
0
(v) Others
 
0
 
0
Total volume of water withdrawal 
(inkilolitres)
 
 
32,137
35,313
Total volume of water consumption
 
(in kilolitres)
 
32,137
35,313
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
 
(Waterconsumed/turnover)
 
 
0.000001269
 
 
0.000001571
Water intensity (optional)- the relevant  
 
 
 
 
 
metric may be selected by the entity
 
 
0.055105#
 
0.057052#
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
 
(i)Into Surface water
 
 
 
 
-
 
No treatment
 
0
 
0
-
 
With treatment - please specify
 
level of treatment
 
0
 
0
(ii)Into Ground water
 
 
-
 
No treatment
0
 
0
-
 
 
0
 
0
Parameter  
FY 2024 
(Current Financial  Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
With treatment - please specify
level of treatment
117
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
(iii)Into Sea water
 
-
 
No treatment
 
0
 
0
 
 
 
0
 
0
(iv)Sent to third parties
 
-
 
No treatment
 
0
 
0
 
 
0
 
0
(v) Others
 
 
-
 
No treatment
 
 
 
 
 
14,519
14,973
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
 
14,519
 
14,973
 
 
‘#’Only products manufactured/assembled in our facilities are considered (traded products and spares sold by 
entity are excluded)
 
 
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency?  If yes, name of the external agency.: No
 
 
-
With treatment - please specify
level of treatment
-
With treatment - please specify
level of treatment
-
With treatment - please specify
level of treatment
Parameter  
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
2.
 
Details of total Scope3 emissions & itsintensity:
 
Parameter  
Unit
 
Total Scope 3 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2,CH4,N2O,HFCs,PFCs,
 
SF6,NF3,if available)
 
Metric tons of 
CO2
 
equivalent
 
 
 
4,754
Not Evaluated
Total Scope3 emissions
 
per rupee of turnover
 
 
 
0.00000018768
 
 
Total Scope 3 emission 
intensity(optional)–the 
relevant metric may be
 
selected by the entity  
 
 
 
0.008152#
 
 
‘#’Only products manufactured/assembled in our facilities are considered (traded products and spares sold by 
entity are excluded)
 
Note: In FY 2024, KSB company has selected limited categories for scope 3 calculations like Category 2 – Capital 
Goods, Category 3 – Fuel & Energy related activities, Category 5 – Waste generation in operations, Category 6 – 
Business travel by Road/Air, Category 7 – Employee Commute, Category 8 – Upstream Leased Assets.
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? If 
“Yes”, name the external agency: Yes, Independent Limited level assurance taken on Scope 3 emissions (Category 
2, Category 3, Category 5, Category 6, Category 7 and Category 8) by SGS India.
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
-
-
-
-
118
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
 
3.
 
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators 
above, provide details of signiﬁcant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in 
such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
 
·
 
Not Applicable
 
4. If the entity has undertaken any speciﬁc initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to 
improve resource eﬃciency, or reduce impact due to emissions / eﬄuent discharge / waste generated, 
please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
1 
Replacement of Existing 
1.5 Ton Air Conditioning 
System by advanced 
inverterbased Air 
Conditioning System
 
An inverter type air-conditioner adjusts the 
speed of the compressor to control the 
refrigerant (gas) ﬂow rate, thereby consuming 
less energy. An inverter has precise temp. 
control and  as the set temp. is attained, the 
unit adjusts its capacity to eliminate any . 
temp ﬂuctuations.
 
Potential energy saving 
per year is 25,230 
kWh. GHG emission 
reduction by 18.34 
Tons Co2 eq.
 
 
 
Sr.
No
Initiative undertaken
 
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if  
any, may be provided along 
with summary)
 
 
Outcome of the  
initiative
 
 
2 
Replacement of 
conventional 
wall mounted fans 
with energy eﬃcient 
BLDC fans 
in shop ﬂoor.
 
A BLDC motor is a Brush Less DC (Direct 
Current) motor which uses less power than 
brushed motors in an induction motor.
 
 
This change is resulting in a good amount of 
energy saving. Additionally, BLDC motors  
have a longer life span as they do not get 
heated. BLDC fans are silent compared 
to a standard fan.
 
 
 
 
Potential energy saving 
per year is 14,400 
kwh. GHG emission 
reduction by 10.46 
Tons Co2 eq.
 
3
 
Digi VCC for Air 
Compressor
 
Improves compressor durability and 
increase air end life by reducing the 
bearing loads due to variable ﬂow 
demands.
 
Potential energy saving 
per year is 22,626 
kWh.
 
GHG emission 
reduction by 16.44 
Tons Co2 eq.
 
4
 
Automation (ON/OFF) 
control in HVAC system 
for water pumps and 
electricity usage in 
shop1 and shop 3
An automated ON/OFF mechanism is 
implemented in the HVAC system. When 
there is a temperature achieved on the shop 
ﬂoor at that time, the blower and water 
pumps are under the OFF condition and at 
the time of temperature rise the blower and 
motor are automatically in ON condition. 
The OFF-condition time is maximum, so 
energy saving is achieved.
 
 
Potential energy saving 
per year is 18,990 
kWh. GHG emission 
reduction by 13.80 
Tons Co2 eq
 
5
 
Replacement of washing
machine heaters with 
Heat pump to generate 
hot water. 
Industrial Washing Machines are used for 
washing & degreasing the pump 
components with the help of hot water 65 
deg. C. Existing washing machines have 4 no 
heaters of 3 KW each to reach the designed 
temperatures. We studied heat pumps 
which use the heat of ambient air to pre-
heat the water. This results in energy saving.
 
 
  
 
-
Potential energy 
saving per year is 
10932 kWh.
 
GHG emission 
reduction by 7.94 Tons 
Co2 eq.
 
119
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
 
Installation of IFC controller 
Potential energy 
saving per year is 
90,000 kWh. GHG 
6
for Compressed Air System.
In industry, air compressors account for a 
signiϐicant amount of electricity used. Air 
compressors are used to supply process 
requirements, to operate pneumatic tools 
and to meet instrumentation needs. KSB has 
taken many energy saving initiatives in 
compressor systems, like VFD installations to 
reduce the unloading time, arresting 
compressed air leakages, reduced artiϐicial 
demand of compressed air, reduction in 
pressure settings, etc.
emission reduction by 
65.43 Tons Co2 eq.
 
 
Sr.
No
Initiative undertaken
 
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if  
any, may be provided along 
with summary)
 
 
Outcome of the  
initiative
 
 
5. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details
 in 100 words/ web link.
 
 
·
At KSB Limited, an emergency /disaster management procedure is integrated into its management 
system for dealing with such situations to minimize hazards to environment and human health.
A list of potential emergency situations has been identiﬁed and the roles and responsibilities of all 
concerned personnel are also deﬁned to handle the emergencies eﬀectively. Training and awareness 
sessions are conducted for the employees and emergency handling teams to prepare them for actual 
emergency situations. Fire-ﬁghting teams, ﬁrst aid teams have been formed and displayed all over the 
plants.
·
 
 
6.
 
Disclose any signiϐicant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain
 of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in 
this regard.
·
 
During the reporting period, there was no negative environmental impact from value chain operations. 
To evaluate their sustainability (environment, social, and governance) performance, we have selected the 
top 44 suppliers.
We performed a remote audit and site visit for the top 28 suppliers in FY 2024 as part of the supplier 
sustainability assessment.
·
 ·
 
 
7. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed for environmental impacts.
 
·
We have selected the top 44 suppliers to assess their sustainability (Environment, Social and Governance) 
performance.
In FY 2024, we completed 64% suplliers (Out of 44, 28 top supplier sustainability assessment site 
visit/remote audit done.)
·
120
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Essential Indicators
 
1.
 
a. Number of aﬃliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
 
 
·
 
6 Nos. 
 
 
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the 
total members of such body) the entity is a member of/ aﬃliated to.
 
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in inﬂuencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
Highlights 
6 Nos
No. of Afϐiliation with Trade and
Industry Chambers
S.No. 
Name the trade and industry 
chambers/associations  
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
1.  
Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce Industries and 
Agriculture (MCCIA)
 
State
 
2.  
Indian Pumps Manufacturers’ Association (IPMA)
 
National
 
3.
 
Confederation ofIndianIndustries (CII)
 
National
 
4.
 
Indo-German Chamber of Commerce (IGCC)
 
National*
 
5.
 
Indian Plumbing Association
 
National
 
6.
 
 
National*
 
*: International Partnership-helps India and German companies to collaborate and work jointly.
 
2.
 
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- 
competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
-
 
 
 
Name of authority
 
Brief of the Case
 
Corrective action taken
 
Not Applicable
German Machineryand Plant Manufacturer's Association
Leadership Indicator
 
1.  Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:  
 
 
Zero
Anti-Competitive conduct instances
121
S.No.
 
Public 
policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
 
Whether information 
available in public 
domain (Yes/No)
Frequency
 
of Review 
by Board
Web-Link,  
if available
The Company does not have a separate policy on“ policy advocacy”. For advocacy on policies related to the Pumps 
Industry, the Company works through industry associations such as Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce 
Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), Indian Pumps Manufacturers' Association (IPMA), Confederation of Indian 
Industries, Indian Plumbing Association etc. There are speciﬁed oﬃcials in the Company who are authorized for 
communicating with industrial bodies and managing Government aﬀairs in accordance with Communication 
Policy of the Company.
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Highlights
 
 
 
9,300+ 
persons beneﬁted from 
CSR Projects
 
 
73+
Job Creation in Urban Area
20,000+ 
Trees Planted
1.  Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current ﬁnancial year.
 
 
Name and 
brief detail of 
project
 
 
SIA
 
Notiﬁcation No.
 
Date of 
notiﬁcation
 
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/ No)
 
Results 
communicated in
public domain 
(Yes/No)
 
Relevant
web-link
We are checking the possibilities of conducting Social Impact Assessments for which we have identiﬁed some 
sources. 
 
 
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is 
being undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
 
S.
 
No.
 
Name of the project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
 
 
State
 
 
District
 
 
% of PAFs 
covered by 
R&R
 
Amounts paid 
to PAFs in the FY 
(in INR.)
Not Applicable, none of our projects have aﬀected the habitation of our near-by communities across our 
plants.
No. of project
 aﬀected 
families (PAFs)
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
122
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
 
3.
 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
 
·
 
The company has a process to ensure all the grievances and feedback from all stakeholders  
including communities are received and addressed. This includes : 
 
A dedicated toll-free number
 
 
A dedicated contact page on the website
 
 
Complaints / Feedback received on contact Email
 
Complaints / Feedback received directly by Company representatives
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
 
Complaints / Feedback received through Social Media Platforms
 
 
Dedicated teams within the Company manage all the complaints and feedback to ensure timely 
response.
 
 
 
4.
 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
 
 
Particulars
Current Year 2024
Previous Year 2023
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ 
Small producers
The company sources its input material from suppliers including 
MSMEs within the district and across India as well as imports, 
wherever required.
 
Sourced directly from within the 
district and neighboring districts
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or 
workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following 
locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
 
Current Year 2024
 
Previous Year 2023
 
Rural
 
6.37%
 
-
 
Semi-Urban
 
0%
 
-
 
Urban
 
72.85%
 
-
 
Metropolitan
20.80%
-
Leadership Indicator
 
 
1.  Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identiϐied in the 
Social Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identiﬁed
 
Corrective action taken
We have not conducted social impact assessments but as per our internal assessment there is no any negative 
social impact.
 
 
 2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in 
designated aspirational districts as identiϐied by government bodies
 
S.No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (inINR.)
KSB plays a vital role in implementing impactful projects based on thorough ground-level need assessments in 
and around its operational areas, focusing on underserved and needy communities.
While KSB does not operate in aspirational districts, it remains dedicated to driving positive change and making 
a meaningful impact on the lives of those in need.
 
 
 
123
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
3.  (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase 
from suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
 
·  No  
 
     
(b)From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
·
 
Nil
 
       
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
·
 
Nil
 
4.
 
Details of the beneﬁts derived and
 
shared from the intellectual properties owned oracquired by 
your entity (in the current ﬁnancial year), based on traditional knowledge:
 
S.
 
No.
 
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
 
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
 
BeneﬁtShared (Yes/ 
No)
 
Basis ofcalculating 
beneﬁt share
Nil
 
5.
 
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
 
Brief of Case
 
Correctiveaction taken
Nil
 
6.
 
Details of beneﬁciaries of CSR Projects:
 
 
S.
 
CSR Project
 
No. of persons beneﬁted from CSR 
Projects (Tentatively)
No.
 
1
 
Miyawaki Aﬀorestation -
 
PCMC and Vambori
 
6,000
2
 
Skill Development -
 
Y4D
 
182
3
 
KSB Scholarship
 
75
4
 
Don Bosco -
 
Chinchwad (Phase II)
 
200
5
 
CNC Simulator Software
 
200
6
 
Govt ITI, Satara
 
175
7
 
Govt. Polytechnic, Karad
 
100
8
 
"Hydraulic-Pneumatic Simulator Software to Govt ITI, 
Satara"
 
100
9
 
ZP School Infrastructure Development, Harsul
 
350
10
 
Garbage Collection
 
1,000
11
 
School Infrastructure Development, Vambori, Ahmednagar 
(Phase ii)
 
700
12
 
School Infrastructure Development, Palayam
 
300
 
13
 
Welding Lab Development, ITI Kavundampalayam
 
120
 
% beneﬁciaries from vulnerable & marginalized groups: 100% for all projects
.
 
 
124
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
Essential Indicators  
 
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
· 
A consumer complaint can be registered via an active toll-free service. The "Regional Service 
Coordinator" keeps monitor on the complaint resolution process, which is handled by the toll-free agent 
through the S3 (Portal) AM Module.
The Mechanism to resolve Online complaints:
Complaints are tracked on the KSB India website and on social media platforms including Facebook, 
Instagram, LinkedIn, and Twitter. 
If the Contact and location details are mentioned in the complaint, then the following steps are followed:
·
 
 
.
 
·
 
 
o
 
Digital Media Team sends the complaint details by email to the authorized person of that 
product and location. Authorized person contacts the customer and resolves the issue in the 
time frame provided to the customer.
After the issue is resolved the authorized person writes back to the customer keeping Digital 
Media Team about the resolution of the issue.
Digital Media Team responds to the customer appropriately for necessary feedback.
o
 
 
o
 
·
Contact and location details not provided in the complaint
o
Digital Media Team asks for the contact and location details of the customer.
o
 
Once the details are received, stepi., ii., and iii., as mentioned above are followed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that 
carry information about:
 
Particulars
 
As percentage to total turnover
 
Environmental and social parameters relevant to  
the product
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/orsafedisposal
The organization adheres with all relevant 
environmental regulations as well as standards for 
product safety and quality
 
 
Policy
 
 
On Cyber security and 
Data privacy
 
Zero  
 
Complaints received for data privacy, Cyber 
security, Advertising, Delivery of essential 
services and Restrictive Trade Practices
.
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner
Highlights
125
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
3.  Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
 
 
Complaints  
Current Year 2024
 
 
Remarks
 
PreviousYear 2023 
Remarks
Received
Pending at 
end of year
 
Received
 
Pending at 
end of year
 
DataPrivacy
 
0
 
0
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
Advertising
 
0
 
0
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
Cyber-security
 
0
 
0
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
Delivery of 
essential services
 
0
 
0
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
RestrictiveTrade
 
Practices
 
0
 
0
-
 
0
 
0
 
-
Customer Complaints
20,466*
 
0
 
23,275*
 
0
 
-
 
*: The ﬁgure includes Customer claims registered in SAP as well as Toll free registrations.
 
 
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Recalls
 
Number
 
Reasons for recall
 
Voluntary Recalls
 
Nil
 
Forced Recalls
Nil
 
 
 
 
 
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? 
(Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
·
Yes, cyber security policies alighned with required ISO standards, are available at KSB intranet for 
internal usage.
 
 
 
 
 
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, 
and delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of 
instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of 
products / services.
·
KSB has taken initiatives at global and local level to strengthen the cyber security posture. These include 
introduction of two factor authentication for applications, Implementation of EDR/MDR(End point 
detection and response / Managed detection and response) solution for the complete group, regular IT 
security audits and VAPT for group countries etc. There are host of other initiatives that will ensure in 
further improving the overall security footprint. No corrective actions were needed for other regulatory 
topics.
 
 
 
 
7.
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
 
a. Number of instances of data breaches
·
Nil
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identiﬁable information of customers
·
Not Applicable
c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leadership Indicator
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed 
(provide web link, if available).
·
The company ensures that all the information required to be displayed on the product labels are as per the 
applicable rules and regulation. Dealer management portal is also equipped with all the information.
During the reporting period, there have been no instances of 
product recalls on account of safety concerns.
·
Not Applicable
126
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (Contd.)
·  Product related all information is available on the website of the company www.ksbindia.co.in
We also have our Toll-Free no. 18002331299, which allow our existing as well as prospective 
customers to reachout to us in case of any queries or complaints.
 
·  
 
 
 
 
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products 
and/or services.
 
·
 
The company educates its consumers through product manuals and provides them with trouble shooting 
manual for each product category which includes vital details on product do's and don'ts, circuit diagrams 
of pump electrical connections, and procedure for operating pumps. Further, training workshops for 
educating consumers on the safe and responsible usage of products and services are organized.
 
 
 
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential 
services.
 
·
 
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per 
local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any 
survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, 
signiﬁcant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
 
·
 
The company does display the fundamental product information on the product as per local laws:
 
i.
Name plate for product speciﬁcation
 
ii. Troubleshooting guides
 
iii. MRP sticker/Barcode for warranty, wherever applicable
 
iv.
 
QR Codes for operating manuals
 
Necessary emailers and updated product information circulars are communicated to applicable 
customers in event of product discontinuation, modiﬁcations and introductions.
127
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
ANNEXURE VI TO BOARD’S REPORT
A. 
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY 
 
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy, for utilising alternate source of energy, 
Capital Investment on Energy Conservation: Covered in the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report annexed to the Board’s Report as annexure V.
 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
 
Eﬀorts made towards technology absorption, Beneﬁts derived as a result of the above eﬀorts, 
imported technology, expenditure incurred on research and development:
 
The Company continues with its eﬀorts to introduce various products for market segments 
by technology absorption. Line synchronous motor concept motor concept is established  
for submersible range of products. Various improvements in castings and it’s processes are 
under implementation to ﬁne tune the use of castings in terms of consumption, wastage and 
environmental impact. Company has a special focus on solar market and are developing a 
range of products suitable for the same. 
 
The Reﬁnery and Petrochemical market is one that calls for latest technology and engineered 
products. The Company has developed axial split casing pumps and vertical cannister 
pumps as per latest API standards for this market. Two sizes of BB1 pumps are developed 
from BP&CL range as per latest API standard and is under ﬁnal testing. We are also 
focussing on expanding the range of these products to meet customer speciﬁc requirements. 
General industry is an expanding market and company has speciﬁcally targeted to absorb 
technology from its parent company to meet speciﬁc market requirements in this sector. Two 
sizes of pumps for chemical application were developed and are under production. A 
Product to meet requirements in railway sector for Vande Bharat and metro rail as well as in 
wind energy generation is complete. Further localisation for cost eﬀectiveness of magnetic 
drive pumps are under progress . For mining market we are also developing new products 
under the guidance of parent company. Various product mix to meet the market 
requirements in the submersible pumps of sheet metal stain less steel, is a focus area. New 
products and bigger sizes of these pumps to cater to export market are under design and 
testing. In the industry segments like paper and pulp, newer models and sizes are being 
developed to cater to market requirements. In the water transportation segment, HSC 
Gamma pump range is being extended with stainless steel metallurgy and adaptation of 
better eﬃcient hydraulics. With better eﬃciencies and better metallurgy has been 
undertaken in current year. The Company has targeted speciﬁc certiﬁcations for UL&FM 
sizes for the ﬁre ﬁghting market which would open our doors for this listed market in 
airports, malls and high rise buildings. 
 
Looking at the growing needs of mechanical seals, the Company continues to oﬀer new sizes 
and variants to the market. Localisation of Mechanical  seals to meet market requirements is 
also a main focus. Solar segment is now well established and supply of pumps, motors  
structures and controllers have started in good quantities. 
 
The Company is moving ahead for localisation and import substitution in a big way. This 
really adds to our eﬀorts to meet ‘Make in India’ requirements of Indian government. The 
reduction in import content and saving foreign exchange has long term beneﬁts to the 
company and the nation. Company has targeted digitisation in all aspects of sales operation 
and service departments and processes to provide more ﬂexibility, eﬃciency reliability in its 
operations. The Company also has a focussed approach on energy eﬃcient pumps for 
128
Industrial application thereby reducing the energy consumption of the products. This is 
undertaken as part of development in new products as well as in replacement and retroﬁt 
sectors to upgrade installed base to meet better eﬃciency standards in energy consumption. 
The Company also introduced several adaptions of submersible Agriculture and Domestic 
products. 
 
The Company has been receiving and absorbing  technology from the parent company KSB 
SE, Germany and it group companies in various segments like mining, water, waste water, 
petrochemicals, energy and industrial applications.
 
The details of expenditure incurred on research and development are included in the 
Annexure V to the Board’s Report.
 
The Company has been importing technology from the parent company KSB SE, Germany 
in various segments like water, waste-water, petrochemicals, energy and industrial 
applications.
B. 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
 
Exports during the year were ` 3,500 Million. Total foreign exchange used during the year 
was ` 1,122 Million and total foreign exchange earned was ` 3,145 Million. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Gaurav Swarup
 
Mumbai, 27th February, 2025  
 
 
 
 
 
Chairman 
 
 
                                                  
 
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
129
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
ANNEXURE VII TO BOARD’S REPORT
FORM MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
KSB Limited,
Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, 
L.B.S. Marg, Mulund (West),
Mumbai 
Dear Sir / Madam,
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and 
the adherence to good corporate practices by KSB Limited (hereinafter called "the Company"). 
Secretarial audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliance and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our veriﬁcation of the Company's books, papers, minute books, forms and returns ﬁled 
and other records maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the 
Company, its oﬃcers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial 
audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
ﬁnancial year ended on December 31, 2024, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in 
place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns ﬁled and other records 
maintained by the Company for the ﬁnancial year ended on December 31, 2024 according to the 
provisions of:
i. 
The Companies Act, 2013 ('the Act') and the rules made thereunder;
ii. 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ('SCRA') and the rules made thereunder;
iii. 
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
iv. 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made there under 
to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
v. 
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 ('SEBI Act'):-
 
a. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
 
b. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;
 
c. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (during the period under review not applicable to 
the Company);
130
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
 
d. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Beneﬁts) 
Regulations, 2014; (during the period under review not applicable to the Company)
 
e. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) 
Regulations, 2008; (during the period under review not applicable to the Company)
 
f. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client 
(during the period under review not applicable to the Company);
 
g. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2009 (during the period under review not applicable to the Company); and
 
h. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 
(during the period under review not applicable to the Company);
The Company follows system driven Legal Compliance System, which tracks compliances and 
generates necessary certiﬁcates and ensures compliance of other applicable laws, however, the 
same has not been veriﬁed and audited by us.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
a. 
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
b. 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above. 
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of the Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The Changes in composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act. 
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes 
on agenda were sent at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clariﬁcations on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
As per minutes of the meetings dissenting views were recorded and noted by the Chairman 
wherever applicable. 
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period there were no speciﬁc events/actions having a major 
bearing on the Company's aﬀairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, standards.
 
For Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries
 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
 
Ashwini Inamdar, Partner
 
FCS No: F 9409, CP No: 11226
Mumbai, February 27, 2025 
UDIN: F009409F004013783
Note:T his report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as 'Annexure A' 
and forms an integral part of this report.
131
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
‘ANNEXURE A’
To,
The Members,
KSB Limited,
Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, 
L.B.S. Marg, Mulund (West), Mumbai
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. 
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain 
reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The 
veriﬁcation was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reﬂected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinion.
3. 
We have not veriﬁed the correctness and appropriateness of ﬁnancial records and Books of 
Accounts of the Company.
4. 
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the 
compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc.
5. 
The compliance of the provisions of corporate laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the veriﬁcation of 
procedures on test basis.
6. 
As regard the books, papers, forms, reports and returns ﬁled by the Company under the 
provisions referred to in our Secretarial Audit Report in Form No. MR-3 the adherence and 
compliance to the requirements of the said regulations is the responsibility of management. 
Our examination was limited to checking the execution and timeliness of the ﬁling of 
various forms, reports, returns and documents that need to be ﬁled by the Company with 
various authorities under the said regulations. We have not veriﬁed the correctness and 
coverage of the contents of such forms, reports, returns and documents.
7. 
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company nor of the eﬃcacy or eﬀectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
aﬀairs of the Company.
 
For Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries
 
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
 
Ashwini Inamdar, Partner
 
FCS No: F 9409, CP No: 11226
Mumbai, February 27, 2025 
UDIN: F009409F004013783
132
Impact in FY 2024
6000
Beneﬁciaries 
Impact in 
FY 2024
50
Beneﬁciaries 
KSB Ltd supported Apulki School for specially-abled children in Wai, Maharashtra by 
providing kitchen appliances, sports equipment, and playground materials. This effort 
helped improve the everyday experiences of the students and encouraged their overall 
development. The initiative also fostered a more engaging and supportive learning 
environment, helping to enhance the quality of care and education for the children.
Destitute Care: Caring for Every Child
KSB India supported the development of a Miyawaki forest in Nigdi by planting over
, in collaboration 
 8,000 native trees
with the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, Saytrees Environment Trust, and the Oxygen Park Residents 
Association (OPRA). This initiative plays a vital role in enhancing urban green cover and contributes meaningfully to 
carbon footprint reduction and ecological restoration. It reﬂects a strong commitment to environmental sustainability 
and community well-being through impactful green initiatives.
Environment: Creating Green Impact
The Miyawaki forest will act as 
a natural carbon sink, helping 
mitigate the impact of urban 
emissions over time.
132
133
As a part of KSB's commitment to creating meaningful impact 
through education and employability, we have established a 
new Skill Development Centre at Don Bosco ITI, Chinchwad. 
This initiative is designed to provide practical, hands-on training 
to underprivileged youth and equip them with the skills required 
to succeed in today's competitive industrial landscape.
The centre is equipped with modern learning tools and technical 
infrastructure including a ﬁtter lab, CNC simulator lab, 
hydraulic-pneumatic training kits, lathe machinery, and 
dedicated training classrooms. These resources ensure that 
students receive industry-aligned education that enhances 
both their conﬁdence and career readiness.
Through this initiative, KSB is not only supporting the technical 
training ecosystem but also playing a proactive role in bridging 
the skill gap in India. The program has already started to impact 
young lives by preparing them for sustainable employment and 
long-term career growth.
Impact in FY 2024
75
Per Quarter 
Students
KSB 
 Centre at Don Bosco ITI, Chinchwad
Skill Development
Building Skills, Building Futures: 
133
134
Empowering Education: KSB Gurukul 
Vambhori Z.P. Primary School (Girls)
 We believe that educaƟng a girl empowers a 
community, thus KSB Ltd. undertook a 
transformaƟve project - the rebuilding of KSB 
Gurukul – Z.P. Primary School for Girls in Vambhori, 
Maharashtra.
Smart TVs with 
Interactive Video Courses 
8 New Classrooms
“A Journey of Renewal – Then and Now”
New Furniture
A Science Laboratory 
and Staff Ofﬁce
Vibrant Educational 
Wall Graphics
Originally established in 1912, the school serves over 200 young girls 
and is a cornerstone of the local community. As part of our initiative, 
KSB fully redeveloped the school infrastructure, adding:
Impact in FY 2024
600
Girls
134
135
“Guiding Hands, Shaping Futures”
“Vibrant Educational Wall Graphics Aligned with Learning”
Each classroom wall is 
designed in line with the 
year-wise syllabus, making 
learning more engaging and 
visual.
Subjects like language, 
science, math, and 
environment are represented 
through colourful, child-
friendly illustrations.
These graphics support 
interactive, joyful learning 
and help teachers reinforce 
key concepts with ease.
InauguraƟon Ceremony of KSB Gurukul
135
136
 ANNEXURE VIII TO THE BOARD’S REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) ACTIVITIES 
1. 
 B rief outline on CSR Policy of the company:
 
The CSR policy of the Company contains the activities that can be undertaken by the 
Company for CSR, composition of CSR committee, details of existing charitable trust, 
annual allocation for CSR activities, areas of CSR projects, criteria for selection of CSR 
projects, modalities of execution /implementation of CSR activities and the monitoring 
mechanism of CSR activities/projects.
 
The CSR activities of the Company are aligned with the activities speciﬁed in Schedule VII of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
2. 
Composition of CSR Committee:
3. 
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects 
approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the company:
 
The link for CSR Committee composition, CSR Policy and approved CSR Projects is: 
www.ksbindia.co.in
4. 
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR 
Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable): Not Applicable
5. 
a  Average net proﬁt of the company as per section 135(5): 
` 2,371.46  Million
 
b. Two percent of average net proﬁt of the company as per 
` 47.43 Million 
 
 
section 135(5):
 
c. Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes 
NIL 
 
 
or activities of the previous ﬁnancial years:
 
d. Amount required to be set oﬀ for the ﬁnancial year, if any: 
NIL
 
e. Total CSR obligation for the ﬁnancial year : 
` 47.43 Million
6. 
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project):
 
Mode of implementation - No direct spending by the Company.
 
CSR Amount is spent through implementing agency and the name of the implementing 
Agency: KSB Care Charitable Trust, 
 
CSR Registration Number of the implementing Agency: CSR00012480
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
Sl.
 
No.
 
Name of Director
 
of  Directorship
Designation / Nature 
 
Number of 
meetings of 
CSR 
Committee 
held during the 
year  
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
Committee 
attended during the 
year
 
1
 
Ms. Sharmila Barua 
Roychowdhury
 
Chairperson and a 
member from  
1st October, 2024  
3  
1
 
2
 
Mr. Gaurav 
Swarup
 
Member 
3  
3
 
3
 
Mr. Rajeev Jain
 
Member
 
3
 
3
 
4
 
Mr. D.N. Damania
 
Chairperson and a 
member upto 
 
30th September, 2024
 
3
 
2
 
137
 1. CNC lab development for ITI  
Skill Development 
Yes 
Chinchwad,  
5.00
 
 students, providing CNC machines   
 
Maharashtra 
 
 and lab equipment, (Don Bosco) 
 2. Construction of school  
Education 
Yes 
Vambori,  
2.25
 
 infrastructure – Classrooms  
 
 
Maharashtra
 
 (ZP School) 
 3. Development of CNC Simulator  
Skill Development 
Yes 
Satara,  
1.37
 
 and CNC Lab (ITI College  
 
 
Maharashtra
 
 Satara)  
 4. Civil work in kitchen room  
Destitute Care 
Yes 
Coimbatore 
0.25
 
 (Families for Children)
 5. Provided sports and kitchen  
Destitute Care 
Yes 
Wai,  
0.37 
 
 Equipment (Aapulki, school for  
 
 
Satara,  
 
 specially abled children) 
 
 
Maharashtra
 6. Renovation of toilets for Girls’  
Sanitation and  
Yes 
Bakori, 
0.55
 
 home (Maher)  
Destitute Care 
 
Pune, 
 
  
 
 
Maharashtra 
 7. Tree plantation – Miyawaki  
Environment 
Yes 
Pimpri- 
2.07
 
 aﬀorestation (SayTrees) 
 
 
Chinchwad , 
 
  
 
 
Pune and 
 
  
 
 
Vambori, 
 
  
 
 
Maharashtra
 8. School infrastructure - Compound  Education 
Yes 
Harsul,  
2.95
 
 wall, dining hall repair, benches,  
 
 
Maharashtra
 
 toilet block for Girls (ZP School) 
 9. School infrastructure -  
Education 
Yes 
Vambori,  
6.98
 
 Construction of Class Rooms,  
 
 
Maharashtra
 
 benches, Electronic boards, and 
 
 Sports related & other equipment 
 
 (ZP Girls School) 
10. School infrastructure -  
Education 
Yes 
Palayam,  
2.73
 
 Construction of toilets and  
 
 
Coimbatore, 
 
 refurbishment of classrooms 
 
 
Tamil Nadu 
 
 (Primary School NSN) 
11. Sponsoring PCB assembly training Skill Development 
Yes 
Pune,  
3.53
 
 (Y4D Foundation)  
 
 
Maharashtra 
12. Sponsoring scholarship to  
Education and  
Yes 
Pune 
5.35
 
 engineering diploma girl students  
women 
 
 (Buddy4Study) 
empowerment  
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Sl.
No.
Name of The Project
Item from the list of 
activities in schedule 
VII to the Act.
 
Local area 
(Yes/ No).
Location of the 
project
(District, State.)
 
Amount 
spent
( ` 
Million)
 
138
13. College infrastructure - Building a  Education and  
Yes 
Satara,  
5.27
 
 Hydraulic Pneumatic lab,  
Skill development 
 
Maharashtra
 
 Hydraulic Pneumatic Simulator 
 
 Software, providing CNC machine 
 
 for CNC lab, and refurbishment of 
 
 toilets (ITI government College) 
14. College infrastructure- Building a  
Education and  
Yes 
Karad,  
1.52
 
 Mechanical Engineering Materials  Skill development 
 
Maharashtra
 
 (MEM) Lab and provide lab related 
 
 equipment. (Government 
 
 Polytechnic, Karad) 
15. Provide Garbage Collection Van  
Environment and  
Yes 
Sinnar,  
1.84
 
 (Malegaon Gram panchayat) 
Destitute Care 
 
Maharashtra 
16. Provide CNC Simulator Software 
Skill Development 
Yes 
Pimpri- 
1.22 
 
 and Interactive Board for ITI  
 
 
Chinchwad, 
 
 students (DON Bosco) 
 
 
Pune 
17. College infrastructure –  
Education and  
Yes 
Kavundam- 
2.95
 
 Development of lab with advanced  skill development 
 
palayam , 
 
 MIG & TIG welding facilities,  
 
 
Coimbatore
 
 providing lab related equipment 
 
 and welding simulator  
(a)  Amount spent on CSR Projects 
 
 
 
46.20
(b)  Amount spent in Administrative overheads  
 
 
1.32 
(c)  Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable 
 
 
0.00
(d)  Total amount spent for the Financial Year (a+b+c): 
 
 
47.52
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Sl.
No.
Name of The Project
Item from the list of 
activities in schedule 
VII to the Act.
 
Local area 
(Yes/ No).
Location of the 
project
(District, State.)
 
Amount 
spent
( ` 
Million)
 
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the ﬁnancial year:
 
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year. 
(`)  
Amount Unspent (` Million)
 
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
section 135(6). 
Amount transferred to any fund speciﬁed
under Schedule VII as per second
proviso to section 135(5).
 
Amount. 
Date of 
transfer. 
Name of the 
Fund  
Amount.  
Date of 
transfer.
47.52
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
139
ANNEXURE TO BOARD’S REPORT (Contd.)
7.  
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three ﬁnancial years: Nil
8.  
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through CSR amount spent in the 
Financial Year: No
9.  
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net proﬁt 
as per section 135(5): Not Applicable
 
 
On behalf of the Board of Directors 
 
 
For KSB Limited
                                                                                                        
 
Rajeev Jain 
Ms. Sharmila Barua Roychowdhury
Mumbai, 27th February, 2025 
Managing Director 
Chairman, CSR Committee
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
 
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
under sub- 
section (6) 
of
 
section 
135 (in 
`) 
Balance 
Amount
 
 
in 
Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
under 
sub- 
section 
(6) of 
section 
135 
 
(in `)
 
Amount 
Spent in 
the 
Financial 
Year 
 
(in Rs)
 
Amount 
 
transferred to a 
Fund as speciﬁed 
under Schedule 
 
VII as per second 
proviso to 
 
sub-
 
section (5) 
 
of section 135, 
 
if any
 
Amount 
remaining 
to be spent 
in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years 
 
(in Rs)
 
Deﬁciency,
 if any
 
Amount 
(in `)
 
Date of 
Transfer
 
1
 
NIL
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 
(i) 
Two percent of average net proﬁt of the company as  
47.43 
 
 
per sub-section (5) of section 135
 (ii) 
Total amount spent for the Financial Year 
47.52 
 (iii) 
Excess amount spent for the ﬁnancial year [(ii)-(i)] 
0 
 (iv) 
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or  
0 
 
 
activities of the previous Financial years, if any
 (v) 
Amount available for set oﬀ in succeeding Financial years  
0 
 
 
[(iii)- (iv)]
Sl. No.
 
Particular 
Amount (` Million) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(f)  Excess amount for set oﬀ, if any: Nil
140
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF KSB LIMITED
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements 
Opinion
1. 
We have audited the accompanying standalone 
ﬁnancial statements of KSB Limited (“the 
Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as  
at December 31, 2024, and the Statement of Proﬁt 
and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then 
ended, and notes to the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements, including material accounting policy 
information and other explanatory information. 
2. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid standalone ﬁnancial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act") in the manner so required and give a 
true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
of the state of aﬀairs of the Company as at 
December 31, 2024, and total comprehensive 
income (comprising of proﬁt and other 
comprehensive income), changes in equity and its 
cash ﬂows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) speciﬁed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the 
“Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements” section of our 
report. We are independent of the Company in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the 
Rules thereunder, and we have fulﬁlled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion.
Key audit matters 
4. 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgement, were of most signiﬁcance 
in our audit of the standalone ﬁnancial statements 
of the current period. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the standalone 
ﬁnancial statements as a whole and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter 
Appropriateness of Revenue Recognition (Refer to 
Note 1 (e), 2 (ii) and 20 to the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements)
The Company recognises revenue in accordance with 
Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers”. This involves application of signiﬁcant 
judgement by Management with respect to:
Ÿ Combining multiple contracts as a single contract.
Ÿ Identiﬁcation of distinct performance obligations;
Ÿ Allocation of consideration to identiﬁed 
performance obligations;
Ÿ Determination of timing of recognition of revenue 
either over a period of time or at a point in time on 
transfer of control to customers. This includes 
assessment of alternative use of the products to the 
How our audit addressed  the key  audit  matter
Our audit procedures included the following:
Ÿ Understanding and evaluation of the design and 
testing the operating eﬀectiveness of controls 
surrounding the recording of revenue in accordance 
with the principles of Ind AS 115.
Ÿ Testing of customer contracts on a sample basis to 
assess the terms for identiﬁcation of performance 
obligations in accordance with Ind AS 115 and 
comparing those to the management assessment; 
Ÿ Assessing appropriateness of management’s 
judgements and estimates involved in accounting 
for a sample of customer contracts including inquiry 
and discussion with appropriate client personnel 
especially regarding the nature of products and 
alternative use of the products to the Company. 
141
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
Company based on technical analysis as well as legal 
assessment of right to payment.
Considering the above-mentioned factors, 
appropriateness of revenue recognition has been 
considered as a Key Audit Matter. 
Ÿ Evaluation of the Company’s in-house legal 
counsel’s views regarding the Company’s right to 
payment for performance to date;
Ÿ Testing the appropriateness of timing of recognition 
of revenue (including procedures related to cut oﬀ 
testing) in line with the terms of the customer 
contracts;
Ÿ Testing the key assumptions used by the 
management to estimate contract risks, claims, 
liquidated damages etc.; 
Ÿ Verifying the reports used by management for 
monitoring contracts and their progress;
Ÿ Evaluating appropriateness of the disclosures made 
in the standalone ﬁnancial statements.
Based on above procedures, we did not identify any 
signiﬁcant exceptions in the judgement applied by the 
management in recognition of revenue.
Other Information
5. 
The Company's Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Annual 
report, but does not include the standalone 
ﬁnancial statements and our auditor's report 
thereon. The Annual report is expected to be made 
available to us after the date of this auditor's 
report.
 
Our opinion on the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements does not cover the other information 
and we will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
 
In connection with our audit of the standalone 
ﬁnancial statements, our responsibility is to read 
the other information identiﬁed above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
 
When we read the annual report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance and take appropriate 
action as applicable under the relevant laws and 
regulations.
Responsibilities of management and those charged with 
governance for the standalone ﬁnancial statements
6. 
The Company's Board of Directors is responsible 
for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone 
ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view of 
the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance, 
changes in equity and cash ﬂows of the Company in 
accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the 
Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 
of the Act. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal ﬁnancial 
controls, that were operating eﬀectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the standalone ﬁnancial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
142
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
7. 
In preparing the standalone ﬁnancial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the 
Company's ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those 
Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company's ﬁnancial reporting 
process.
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the standalone 
ﬁnancial statements
8. 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone ﬁnancial statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor's report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to inﬂuence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these standalone ﬁnancial statements.
 
9. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we 
exercise professional judgement and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:
 
● Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit 
evidence that is suﬃcient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control. 
 
● Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(I) of the 
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements in 
place and the operating eﬀectiveness of such 
controls.
 
● Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management. 
 
● Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management's use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
signiﬁcant doubt on the Company's ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor's 
report to the related disclosures in the 
standalone ﬁnancial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor's report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern.   
 
● Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the standalone ﬁnancial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
10. 
We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and 
signiﬁcant audit ﬁndings, including any signiﬁcant 
deﬁciencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit. 
11. 
We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
143
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
12. 
From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most signiﬁcance in the audit 
of the standalone ﬁnancial statements of the 
current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor's 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest beneﬁts of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
13. 
As required by the Companies (Auditor's Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) 
of Section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure 
B a statement on the matters speciﬁed in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable. 
14. 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
that: 
 
(a) We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to the 
best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
 
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the 
Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books, except that the 
backup of certain books of account and other 
books and papers maintained in electronic 
mode has not been maintained on a daily basis 
on servers physically located in India during 
the year and the matters stated in paragraph 
14(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended)(“the Rules”).
 
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Proﬁt and 
Loss (including other comprehensive income), 
the Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this 
Report are in agreement with the books of 
account. 
 
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone 
ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 
133 of the Act. 
 
(e) On the basis of written representations 
received from the directors as on December 
31, 2024, taken on record by the Board of 
Directors, none of the directors is disqualiﬁed 
as on December 31, 2024, from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act.
 
(f) With respect to the maintenance of accounts 
and other matters connected therewith, 
reference is made to our remarks in paragraph 
14(b) above on reporting under Section 
143(3)(b) and paragraph 14(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Rules.
 
(g) With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
ﬁnancial controls with reference to standalone 
ﬁnancial statements of the Company and the 
operating eﬀectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate Report in “Annexure A”.  
 
(h) With respect to the other matters to be 
included in the Auditor's Report in accordance 
with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to 
the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us:  
 
 
i. The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its ﬁnancial position 
in its standalone ﬁnancial statements – 
Refer Note 18 (b) and 30 (a) to the 
standalone ﬁnancial statements.
 
 
ii. The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts 
for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
 
 
iii. There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company during the year;
 
 
iv. (a) The management has  represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in Note 39(h) to the standalone 
ﬁnancial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or 
any other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Company to or in any other person(s) or 
144
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
entity(ies), including foreign entities 
( “ I n t e r m e d i a r i e s ” ) ,  w i t h  t h e 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneﬁciaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneﬁciaries; 
 
 
 
(b)  The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the Note 39(h) to the 
standalone ﬁnancial statements, no funds 
have been received by the Company from 
any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneﬁciaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneﬁciaries; and   
 
 
 
(c) Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to 
our notice that has caused us to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause (a) 
and (b) contain any material misstatement.  
 
v. The dividend declared and paid during the 
year by the Company is in compliance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
 
vi.  Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Company has used multiple 
accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account, which have a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and that has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software, except 
for the following: 
 
 
(i) in respect of the core accounting software, 
the audit trail is not maintained in case of 
modiﬁcation through certain access and 
changes to certain information or data 
recorded in the software;
 
 
(ii) with respect to another accounting 
software of a third party service provider 
used for maintaining certain records, the 
audit trail feature was not enabled at the 
database level to log any direct data 
changes;
 
 
 
During the course of performing our 
procedures, other than the aforesaid 
instances of audit trail not maintained 
where the question of our commenting 
does not arise, we did not notice any 
instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with. 
15. 
The Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite 
approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 
197 read with Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Vivian Pillai
Partner
Membership Number: 127791
UDIN: 25127791BMNVBC5282
Mumbai
February 27, 2025
145
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS’ REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 14(g) of the Independent 
Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of KSB 
Limited on the standalone ﬁnancial statements for the 
year ended December 31, 2024
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements under clause (i) of 
sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. 
We have audited the internal ﬁnancial controls 
with reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements 
of KSB Limited (“the Company”) as of December 
31, 2024, in conjunction with our audit of the 
standalone ﬁnancial statements of the Company 
for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
2. 
The Company’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal ﬁnancial 
controls based on the internal control over 
ﬁnancial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal ﬁnancial controls that were 
operating eﬀectively for ensuring the orderly and 
eﬃcient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds 
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of 
reliable ﬁnancial information, as required under 
the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal ﬁnancial controls, 
both applicable to an audit of internal ﬁnancial 
controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal ﬁnancial controls 
with reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements 
was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated eﬀectively in all material 
respects. 
4. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the 
internal ﬁnancial controls system with reference to 
standalone ﬁnancial statements and their operating 
eﬀectiveness. Our audit of internal ﬁnancial 
controls with reference to standalone ﬁnancial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of 
internal ﬁnancial controls with reference to 
standalone ﬁnancial statements, assessing the risk 
that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating eﬀectiveness of 
internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s 
internal ﬁnancial controls system with reference to 
standalone ﬁnancial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
standalone ﬁnancial statements
6. 
A company's internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and 
the preparation of standalone ﬁnancial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company's 
internal ﬁnancial controls with reference to 
standalone ﬁnancial statements includes those 
policies and procedures that; 
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
146
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
 
(1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reﬂect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; 
 
(2)  provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of standalone ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors 
of the company; and 
 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the company's assets that could have a 
material eﬀect on the standalone ﬁnancial 
statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements
7. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
ﬁnancial controls with reference to standalone 
ﬁnancial statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal 
ﬁnancial controls with reference to standalone 
ﬁnancial statements to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8. 
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal ﬁnancial controls 
system with reference to standalone ﬁnancial 
statements and such internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to standalone ﬁnancial statements were 
operating eﬀectively as at December 31, 2024, 
based on the internal control over ﬁnancial 
reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Vivian Pillai
Partner
Membership Number: 127791
UDIN: 25127791BMNVBC5282
Mumbai 
February 27, 2025
147
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS’ REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 13 of the Independent 
Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of KSB 
Limited on the standalone ﬁnancial statements as of and 
for the year ended December 31, 2024
In terms of the information and explanations sought by 
us and furnished by the Company, and the books of 
account and records examined by us during the course of 
our audit, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we 
report that:
i.  (a) (A) The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation, of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
 
 
(B) The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
 
(b) The Property, Plant and Equipment are 
physically veriﬁed by the Management 
according to a phased programme designed to 
cover all the items over a period of 3 years 
which, in our opinion, is reasonable having 
regard to the size of the Company and the nature 
of its assets. Pursuant to the programme, a 
portion of the Property, Plant and Equipment 
has been physically veriﬁed by the Management 
during the year and no material discrepancies 
have been noticed on such veriﬁcation. 
 
(c) The title deeds of all the immovable properties 
other than properties where the Company is the 
lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed 
in favour of the lessee, as disclosed in Note 4 to 
the standalone ﬁnancial statements, are held in 
the name or erstwhile name of the Company. 
 
(d) The Company has chosen cost model for its 
Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right 
of Use assets) and intangible assets. 
Consequently, the question of our commenting 
on whether the revaluation is based on the 
valuation by a Registered Valuer, or specifying 
the amount of change, if the change is 10% or 
more in the aggregate of the net carrying value of 
each class of Property, Plant and Equipment 
(including Right of Use assets) or intangible 
assets does not arise.
 
(e) Based on the information and explanations 
furnished to us, no proceedings have been 
initiated on or are pending against the Company 
for holding benami property under the 
Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 
1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 
1988)) and Rules made thereunder, and therefore 
the question of our commenting on whether the 
Company has appropriately disclosed the details 
in the ﬁnancial statements does not arise. 
ii.  (a)  The physical veriﬁcation of inventory excluding 
stocks with third parties has been conducted at 
reasonable intervals by the Management during 
the year and, in our opinion, the coverage and 
procedure of such veriﬁcation by Management is 
appropriate.  In respect of inventory lying with 
third parties, these have substantially been 
conﬁrmed by them. The discrepancies noticed on 
physical veriﬁcation of inventory as compared to 
book records were not 10% or more in aggregate 
for each class of inventory. 
 
(b) During the year, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rs. 
5 crores, in aggregate, from banks on the basis of 
security of current assets. The terms of sanction 
do not stipulate ﬁling of quarterly returns or 
statements with such banks, and accordingly, the 
question of our commenting on whether the 
returns or statements are in agreement with the 
unaudited books of account of the Company, 
does not arise. 
iii.  (a)  The Company has granted unsecured loans to 
532 employees. The aggregate amount during the 
year, and balance outstanding at the balance 
sheet date with respect to such loans to employees 
are as per the table given below:
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
  
Particulars 
Loans (Amount in ` Millions)
Aggregate amount of loans granted to employees during the year 
 67.42
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of the above case 
 121.00
(Also refer Note 6(b) to the ﬁnancial statements)
148
 
(b)  In respect of the aforesaid loans, the terms and 
conditions under which such loans were granted 
are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
 
(c)  In respect of the aforesaid loans, the schedule of 
repayment of principal and payment of interest 
has been stipulated, and the parties are repaying 
the principal amounts, as stipulated, and are 
also regular in payment of interest as applicable.
 
(d)  In respect of the loans, there is no amount which 
is overdue for more than ninety days.
 
(e) There were no loans which have fallen due 
during the year and were renewed/extended. 
Further, no fresh loans were granted to same 
parties to settle the existing overdue loans.
 
(f) There were no loans which were granted during 
the year that were repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of 
repayment. The Company has not granted any 
loan to promoters/related parties. 
iv.  In our opinion, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of Sections 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013 in respect of the investments made. The 
Company has not granted any loans or provided any 
guarantees or security to the parties covered under 
Sections 185 and 186. Therefore, to that extent the 
reporting under clause 3(iv) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.  
v. 
The Company has not accepted any deposits or 
amounts which are deemed to be deposits referred in 
Sections 73, 74, 75 and 76 of the Act and the Rules 
framed there under. 
vi. Pursuant to the rules made by the Central 
Government of India, the Company is required to 
maintain cost records as speciﬁed under Section 
148(1) of the Act in respect of its products. We have 
broadly reviewed the same and are of the opinion 
that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records 
have been made and maintained. We have not, 
however, made a detailed examination of the records 
with a view to determine whether they are accurate or 
complete. 
vii. (a) In our opinion, the Company is generally regular 
in depositing undisputed statutory dues in respect 
of income tax, though there has been a slight 
delay in a few cases, and is regular in depositing 
undisputed statutory dues, including provident 
fund, employees’ state insurance, professional 
tax, sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty 
of excise, value added tax, cess, goods and 
services tax and other material statutory dues, as 
applicable, with the appropriate authorities. 
 
(b) There are no statutory dues of duty of customs, 
professional tax, sales tax, value added tax, cess 
and employees’ state insurance which have not 
been deposited on account of any dispute. The 
particulars of statutory dues referred to in sub-
clause (a) as at December 31, 2024 which have 
not been deposited on account of a dispute, are as 
follows:
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
Name of the 
statute
Central Excise 
Act, 1944
Nature of dues
Excise Duty (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Excise Duty (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Excise Duty (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Amount
(` In 
million)
24.07 
574.29 
1.86 
Amount paid 
under protest
(` in million)
7.87 
191.20 
0.12 
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
August 2013 to 
June 2017
April 2013 to 
June 2017
March 2002
Forum where the 
dispute is 
pending
The Commissioner of 
CGST & Central 
Excise, Nashik, 
Maharashtra
Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (CESTAT), 
Pune, Maharashtra
Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (CESTAT), 
New Delhi
149
Name of the 
statute
Nature of dues
Amount
(` In 
millions)
Amount paid 
under protest
(` in millions)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where the 
dispute is 
pending
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Finance Act, 
1994
Goods and 
Services Tax 
Act, 2017 
Income Tax 
Act, 1961
Employees 
Provident Fund 
and 
Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act, 
1952
Service Tax (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Goods and Service Tax 
Act (including interest 
and penalty, if 
applicable)
Goods and Service Tax 
Act (including interest 
and penalty, if 
applicable)
Goods and Service Tax 
Act (including interest 
and penalty, if 
applicable)
Goods and Service Tax 
Act (including interest 
and penalty, if 
applicable)
Goods and Service Tax 
Act (including interest 
and penalty, if 
applicable)
Goods and Service Tax 
Act (including interest 
and penalty, if 
applicable)
Income Tax (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Income Tax (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Income Tax (including 
interest and penalty if 
applicable)
Provident Fund
(including interest and 
penalty, if applicable)
565.76
5.46 
13.48 
53.02 
1.47 
3.33 
0.91 
85.97 
3.80 
459.53 
5.12 
9.49
1.85 
0.55 
2.36 
 
0.06 
0.16 
0.07 
29.70 
 
-   
25.00 
1.84 
September 2004 
to March 2009
July 2017
June 2017
FY 2017-18
FY 2017-18
FY 2018-19
FY 2018-19
AY 2017 – 18
AY 2020-21
AY 2021 - 22
October 2007 to 
February 2021
Principal 
Commissioner of 
Central Excise and 
Service Tax, Pune, 
Maharashtra
Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (CESTAT),
Coimbatore
Commissioner 
(Appeal), 
Maharashtra
Commissioner 
(Appeal) Coimbatore,
Tamil Nadu
Additional 
Commissioner 
(Appeals) 
Bhubaneswar, Odisha
Commissioner 
(Appeals)
Kolkata, Bengal
Additional 
Commissioner 
(Appeals) 
Hyderabad,  
Telangana
Income Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (ITAT), 
Mumbai
Commissioner of 
Income Tax CIT (A), 
Faceless appeal
Income Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (ITAT), 
Mumbai
Regional Provident 
Fund Commissioner-
II, Nashik, 
Maharashtra
150
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
xi. (a) During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, we have neither come 
across any instance of material fraud by the 
Company or on the Company, noticed or 
reported during the year, nor have we been 
informed of any such case by the Management.  
 
(b)  During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, a report under 
Section 143(12) of the Act, in Form ADT-4, as 
prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 was not required to 
be ﬁled with the Central Government. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xi)(b) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(c) During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, and as represented to 
us by the management, no whistle-blower 
complaints have been received during the year 
by the Company. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xi)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
 xii. As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the 
Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
xiii. The Company has entered into transactions with 
related parties in compliance with the provisions of 
Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. The details of 
related party transactions have been disclosed in the 
ﬁnancial statements as required under Indian 
Accounting Standard 24 “Related Party Disclosures” 
speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Act.
xiv. (a)  In our opinion, the Company has an internal 
audit system commensurate with the size and 
nature of its business.
 
(b) The reports of the Internal Auditor for the period 
under audit have been considered by us.
viii. There are no transactions previously unrecorded in 
the books of account that have been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax 
assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
ix.  (a)  The Company has not defaulted in repayment of 
loans or other borrowings or in the payment of 
interest to any lender during the year.
 
(b) On the basis of our audit procedures, we report 
that the Company has not been declared Wilful 
Defaulter by any bank or ﬁnancial institution or 
government or any government authority.
 
(c) The Company has not obtained any term loans. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(ix)(c) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(d) According to the information and explanations 
given to us, and the procedures performed by us, 
and on an overall examination of the ﬁnancial 
statements of the Company, we report that no 
funds raised on short-term basis have been 
utilised for long-term purposes by the Company.  
 
(e) On an overall examination of the ﬁnancial 
statements of the Company, we report that the 
Company has not taken any funds from any 
entity or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiary or associate 
company. The company does not have a joint 
venture.
 
(f) According to the information and explanations 
given to us and procedures performed by us, we 
report that the Company has not raised loans 
during the year on the pledge of securities held in 
its subsidiary or associate company. The 
Company does not have a joint venture. 
x.  (a) The Company has not raised any money by way 
of initial public oﬀer or further public oﬀer 
(including debt instruments) during the year. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(x)(a) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
 
(b) The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or fully 
or partially or optionally convertible debentures 
during the year. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
151
xv.    In our opinion, the Company has not entered into 
any non-cash transactions with its directors or 
persons connected with him. Accordingly, the 
reporting on compliance with the provisions of 
Section 192 of the Act under clause 3(xv) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi. (a) The Company is not required to be registered 
under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of 
India Act, 1934. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
 
(b)  The Company has not conducted non-banking 
ﬁnancial / housing ﬁnance activities during the 
year. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
 
(c)  The Company is not a Core Investment 
Company (CIC) as deﬁned in the regulations 
made by the Reserve Bank of India. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
 
(d) Based on the information and explanations 
provided by the management of the Company, 
the Group (as deﬁned in the Core Investment 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) 
does not have any CICs, which are part of the 
Group. We have not, however, separately 
evaluated whether the information provided by 
the management is accurate and complete. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
xvii. The Company has not incurred any cash losses in 
the ﬁnancial year or in the immediately preceding 
ﬁnancial year.
xviii. There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year and accordingly the 
reporting under clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not 
applicable.
xix. On the basis of the ﬁnancial ratios, ageing and 
expected dates of realisation of ﬁnancial assets and 
payment of ﬁnancial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the ﬁnancial statements, our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and 
management plans and based on our examination of 
the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing 
has come to our attention, which causes us to believe 
that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of 
the audit report that the Company is not capable of 
meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance 
sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one 
year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state 
that this is not an assurance as to the future viability 
of the Company. We further state that our reporting 
is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report 
and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance 
that all liabilities falling due within a period of one 
year from the balance sheet date will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx. As at balance sheet date, the Company does not have 
any amount remaining unspent under Section 135(5) 
of the Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) 
of the Order is not applicable. 
xxi. The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial 
Statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of 
the said clause has been included in this report.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Vivian Pillai
Partner
Membership Number: 127791
UDIN: 25127791BMNVBC5282
Mumbai 
February 27, 2025 
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
152
Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2024
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
 
 
 
Particulars 
Notes 
As at  
 As at 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
ASSETS 
  
  
 
 
I.  
Non-current assets 
  
  
  
 
Property, plant and equipment 
3 
3,864.74 
 
3,710.40
 
Right-of-use assets 
4 
 327.18  
 
269.25
 
Capital work-in-progress 
3 
528.08 
 
310.25
 
Other Intangible assets 
5 
192.72 
 
210.24
 
Intangible assets under development 
5 
18.48 
 
13.75
 
Financial assets
 
(a) Investments 
6 (a) 
 63.15 
 
 
63.15
 
(b) Trade receivables 
7 
19.14 
 
 
42.34
 
(c) Loans 
 
6 (b) 
 80.24 
 
73.91
 
(d) Other ﬁnancial assets 
9 
77.98 
 
42.28
 
Deferred tax assets (net) 
 13 (a) 
 191.29 
 
177.85
 
Income Tax assets (net) 
 13 (b) 
 110.59 
 
183.49
 
Other non-current assets 
11 
344.18 
343.23 
 
Total non-current assets 
 
5,817.77 
 
5,440.14
II.  
Current assets  
  
  
  
 
Inventories  
10 
6,428.23 
 
6,426.34
 
Financial assets 
  
  
   
 
(a) Trade receivables 
7 
6,502.73 
4,917.19 
 
(b) Cash and cash equivalents 
8 (a) 
 958.87 
 
1,195.13
 
(c) Bank balances other than (b) above 
8 (b) 
 2,275.67 
 
1,550.40
 
(d) Loans 
 
6 (b) 
 52.95 
 
27.96
 
(e) Other ﬁnancial assets 
9 
116.69 
 
114.75
 
Other current assets 
12 
701.78 
 
429.41
 
Total current assets 
 
17,036.92 
 
14,661.18
 
Total Assets  
 
22,854.69 
 
20,101.32
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  
  
  
   
EQUITY
 
Equity share capital 
14 (a) 
 348.08 
 
348.08
 
Other equity  
14 (b) 
 13,902.76 
 
12,130.36
 
Total Equity  
 
14,250.84  
 
12,478.44
LIABILITIES
I.  
Non-current liabilities
 
Financial liabilities 
  
  
   
 
(a) Lease liabilities 
15 
21.67 
 
21.02
 
Provisions 
 
18 (a) 
 569.82 
 
437.00
 
Total non-current liabilities 
 
 591.49 
 
458.02
II.  
Current liabilities 
  
  
   
 
Financial liabilities
 
(a) Lease liabilities 
15 
12.69 
 
11.34
 
(b) Trade payables 
16 
  
 
 
-Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small  
 
347.31 
 
473.09
 
enterprises
 
-Total outstanding dues of creditors other  
 
3,405.98 
 
2,959.40
 
than micro enterprises and small enterprises 
 
(c) Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
17 
955.44 
925.02
 
Other current liabilities 
19 
2,657.72 
 
2,258.52
 
Provisions 
 
18 (b) 
 558.52 
 
537.49
 
Current tax liabilities (net) 
13 (b) 
 74.70 
   
- 
 
Total current liabilities 
 
8,012.36 
 
7,164.86
 
Total Liabilities 
 
8,603.85 
 
7,622.88
 
Total Equity and Liabilities 
 
22,854.69 
 
20,101.32
Summary of material accounting policies 
 
 
1 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 
 
 
 
This is the Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016  
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
153
Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended December 31, 2024 
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
 
 
 
Particulars 
Notes 
 Year ended  
Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Income 
 
  
 
Revenue from operations 
20 
 25,330.86  
 
22,472.38
Other income 
 
21 
414.92 
 
362.69
Total Income 
 
 
25,745.78 
 
22,835.07
Expenses  
  
 
Cost of materials consumed 
22 
12,034.04 
 
10,688.97
Purchases of stock-in-trade 
23 
2,567.34  
 
1,907.05
Changes in inventories of ﬁnished goods, 
24  
(379.94) 
 
179.08
work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Employee beneﬁts expense 
25 
3,135.19  
 
2,696.83
Finance costs 
 
26 
27.17 
 
52.90
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
27 
543.24 
 
496.78
Other expenses  
 
28 
4,598.84 
4,064.69 
Total Expenses  
 
 
22,525.88 
20,086.30 
Proﬁt before tax 
 
 
3,219.90 
 
2,748.77
Tax expense 
 
  
 
Current tax 
 
13 (b) 
 815.07 
 
721.62
Deferred tax 
 
13 (a), (b) 
 (4.19) 
 (18.98)
Total tax expense 
   
 
810.88 
702.64 
 Proﬁt for the year  
 
2,409.02 
2,046.13 
 Other comprehensive income 
  
  
 
Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss 
  
  
 
Remeasurement of post-employment beneﬁt obligations 
31 
(36.73) 
 31.73 
Income tax relating to items that will not be 
13 (a), (b) 
 9.25 
 (7.98)
reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax  
 
(27.48) 
 23.75 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
  
2,381.54 
 
2,069.88
Earnings per equity share 
 
  
 
Basic and Diluted (face value of ` 2/- each) 
 29 
13.84 
11.76 
Summary of material accounting policies 
 
 
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 
This is the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
154
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
 
Particulars 
Year ended 
 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 A.  Cash ﬂows from operating activities 
 
 
 
 
Proﬁt before tax 
 
3,219.90 
 
2,748.77
 
Adjustments for : 
 
 
 
 
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
543.24
 
 
 
496.78  
 
Net gain on disposal of property,  
(6.32) 
 
 
(2.21)
 
plant and equipment and intangible assets
 
Finance costs 
27.17 
 
 
52.90
 
Interest income 
(239.47) 
 
 
(163.27)
 
Dividend from investment in associate 
(47.41) 
 
 
(39.32)
 
Fair value (gain)/loss in derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
1.40
 
 
 
(2.72) 
 
Sundry credit balances and provisions  
- 
 
 
 
 
(3.45)
 
no longer required, written back 
 
Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss 
4.78 
 
 
8.61
 
Allowance for doubtful trade and other receivables 
71.89 
 
 
(55.49)
 
 
 
355.28 
 
291.83
Operating proﬁt before working capital changes 
 
3,575.18 
 
 
3,040.60
Adjustment for changes in working capital: 
 
 
 
(Increase) / decrease in operating assets: 
 
 
 
 
Inventories 
(1.89) 
 
 
(815.45)
 
Trade receivables 
(1,642.30) 
 
 
(789.75)
 
Loans 
(31.32) 
 
 
28.66
 
Other ﬁnancial assets 
(6.97) 
 
 
 
(46.75)
 
Other assets 
(287.64)
 
 
 
(83.94) 
 
Increase / (decrease) in operating liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
Trade payables 
319.56
 
 
 
301.27  
 
 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
98.01 
 
 
110.27
 
Other liabilities 
399.20
 
 
 
295.86 
 
Provisions 
117.12 
 
 
70.18
 
 
 
(1,036.23) 
 
(929.65)
Cash generated from operations 
 
2,538.95 
 
2,110.95
Income taxes paid (net of refunds) 
 
(667.47) 
 
(695.93)
Net cash ﬂows generated from operating activities (A) 
 
1,871.48 
 
1,415.02
Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2024 
155
B.  Cash ﬂows from investing activities 
 
 
 
 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment,  
(1,005.50) 
 
 
(932.76)
 
right of use assets and intangible assets
 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant  
10.67
 
 
 
8.34  
 
and equipment and intangible assets
 
Investment in ﬁxed deposits 
(2,589.20) 
 
 
(3,098.26)
 
Redemption of ﬁxed deposits 
1,863.91 
 
 
3,838.88
 
Interest received 
208.52 
 
 
189.80
 
Dividend from investment in associate 
47.41 
 
 
39.32
Net cash ﬂows generated from/(used in) investing activities (B) 
 
(1,464.19) 
 
45.32
C.  Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
400.00  
Proceeds from current borrowings 
 500.00
 
 
 
(400.00) 
Repayment of current borrowings 
 (500.00)
 
 
 
 (49.92) 
Interest paid 
 (23.87)
 
 
 
(13.15) 
Repayment of lease liabilities (including interest) 
(15.07)
 
 
 
(522.12) 
Dividend paid 
 (609.14)
Net cash ﬂows used in ﬁnancing activities (c)   
 
(648.08) 
 
(585.19) 
 
Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 
 
(240.79) 
 
875.15 
 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
 
1,195.13 
 
319.34 
Eﬀects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 
 
 4.53 
 
0.64 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 
958.87 
 
1,195.13 
Reconciliation of Cash and cash equivalents as per Statement of Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of following: 
As at  
As at 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents [Refer note 8 (a)] 
 958.87 
1,195.13 
Balances as per Statement of Cash Flows 
 958.87 
1,195.13
Notes: 
(i)  Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' in accordance with 'Ind AS 7 : Statement 
of Cash Flows'.
(ii)  Refer note 36 (a) for Net debt reconciliation.
The above Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date.
Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2024 (Contd.)
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
 
Particulars 
Year ended 
 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
156
A. Equity Share Capital
B.  Other equity [Refer note 14 (b)]
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
As at January 1, 2023 
 
 348.08 
Change in equity share capital 
 14 (a)  
 -   
As at December 31, 2023 
 
 348.08 
Change in equity share capital 
 14 (a)  
 -   
As at December 31, 2024 
 
 348.08 
Notes
The above Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date. 
 
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
 
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Amalgamation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total
As at January 1, 2023 
0.09 
0.10 
 3.20 
1,085.08 
0.06 
9,494.07 10,582.60 
Proﬁt for the year 
- 
 
 
- 
-  
2,046.13 
2,046.13 
Other Comprehensive Income 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Remeasurement of post-employment 
beneﬁt obligations (net of tax) 
 - 
-  
-  
-  
-  
23.75 
23.75 
Total Comprehensive Income 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,069.88 
2,069.88 
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Dividend paid 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (522.12)  (522.12)
As at December 31, 2023 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20 
1,085.08 
0.06 
11,041.83 12,130.36  
 
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Amalgamation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total
As at January 1, 2024 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20  1,085.08 
0.06 
11,041.83 12,130.36 
Proﬁt for the year 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,409.02 
2,409.02 
Other Comprehensive Income 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Remeasurement of post-employment 
beneﬁt obligations (net of tax)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  
(27.48) 
 (27.48)
Total Comprehensive Income  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,381.54 
2,381.54 
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Dividend paid  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (609.14)  (609.14)
As at December 31, 2024 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20 
1,085.08 
0.06 
12,814.23 13,902.76 
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended December 31, 2024
157
Notes forming part of the financial statements 
 
Background: KSB Limited (the 'Company') is a public limited Company domiciled in India with its registered 
oﬃce located at Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, L.B.S Marg, Mulund (West), Mumbai – 400 080. The 
Company is listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE). The Company is 
engaged in the business of manufacture of diﬀerent types of power-driven pumps and industrial valves. 
Castings are mainly produced for captive consumption. CIN of the Company is L29120MH1960PLC011635.
 
The ﬁnancial statements have been authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on February 27, 2025.
1. 
Summary of material accounting policies: 
 
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these ﬁnancial 
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
a. 
Basis of preparation
 
i. Compliance with Ind AS
 
 
The ﬁnancial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notiﬁed 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) [Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended from time to time] and other relevant provisions of the Act.
 
ii. Historical cost convention
 
 
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following:
 
 
● Derivative instruments that are measured at fair value
 
 
● Deﬁned beneﬁt plans - plan assets measured at fair value.
 
 
All assets and liabilities have been classiﬁed as current or non-current as per the Company's operating cycle 
and other criteria set out in the Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products 
and the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash 
equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for all products and services 
except for certain set of products for which operating cycle has been ascertained as 48 months for the 
purpose of current and non-current classiﬁcation of assets and liabilities.
b. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
I)  New and Amended Standards
 
 
The Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs has notiﬁed Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2023 dated March 31, 2023 to amend the following Ind AS which are eﬀective for annual periods 
beginning on or after April 1, 2023. The Company applied these amendments for the ﬁrst-time.
 
 
(i)   Deﬁnition of Accounting Estimates - Amendments to Ind AS 8
 
 
 
 The amendments clarify the distinction between changes in accounting estimates, changes in 
accounting policies and the correction of errors. It has also been clariﬁed how entities use 
measurement techniques and inputs to develop accounting estimates. The amendments had no 
impact on the Company's ﬁnancial statements.
 
 
(ii)  Disclosure of Accounting Policies - Amendments to Ind AS 1
 
 
 
 The amendments aim to help entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful by 
replacing the requirement for entities to disclose their 'signiﬁcant' accounting policies with a 
requirement to disclose their 'material' accounting policies and adding guidance on how entities 
apply the concept of materiality in making decisions about accounting policy disclosures. 
The amendments have had an impact on the Company's disclosures of accounting policies, but not 
on the measurement, recognition or presentation of any items in the Company's ﬁnancial statements.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
158
 
 
(iii)  Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction - Amendments to Ind 
AS 12 
 
 
 
 The amendments narrow the scope of the initial recognition exception under Ind AS 12, so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary diﬀerences 
such as leases.
 
 
 
 The Company previously recognised for deferred tax on leases on a net basis. As a result of these 
amendments, the Company has recognised a separate deferred tax asset in relation to its lease 
liabilities and a deferred tax liability in relation to its right-of-use assets. Since, these balances qualify 
for oﬀset as per the requirements of paragraph 74 of Ind AS 12, there is no impact in the balance 
sheet. There was also no impact on the opening retained earnings as at January 01, 2024.
 
 
 
 Apart from these, consequential amendments and editorials have been made to other Ind AS.
c. 
Segment reporting 
 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief 
operating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker is the Company's board of directors. Refer note 
33 for segment information presented.
d. 
Foreign currency translation
 
(i)   Functional and presentation currency
 
 
 Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the  
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the 'functional currency'). The ﬁnancial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is the Company's functional and presentation 
currency.
 
 (ii)  Transactions and balances
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at year end are recognised in proﬁt and loss and are presented in the Statement of Proﬁt and 
Loss on a net basis.
 
 
 Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
e. 
Revenue recognition
 
The Company recognises the revenue when a customer obtains control of a promised good or service and thus 
has the ability to direct the use and obtain the beneﬁts from the good or service in an amount that reﬂects the 
consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. 
 
The ﬁve-step process is applied for recognition of revenue:
 
 
(i) 
identify contracts with customers
 
 
(ii) 
identify the separate performance obligation
 
 
(iii) determine the transaction price of the contract 
 
 
(iv) allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations, and 
 
 
(v) 
recognise the revenue as each performance obligation is satisﬁed.
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
159
 
(i) Revenue from sale of products 
 
 
The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from parties involved, the 
rights of the parties are identiﬁed, payment terms are identiﬁed, the contract has commercial substance and 
collectability of consideration is probable. 
 
 
Company generate revenue from sale of pumps, valves and related support services. The Company may 
promise to provide distinct goods or services within a contract, for example when a contract covers 
multiple promises (e.g., supply of pumps, motors and spares), in which case the Company separates the 
contract into more than one performance obligation. If a contract is separated into more than one 
performance obligation, the Company allocates the total transaction price to each performance obligation 
on the basis of the relative standalone selling price of each distinct product or service promised in the 
contract. Where standalone selling price is not observable, the Company uses the expected cost-plus 
margin approach to allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation. 
 
 
The Company assesses for the timing of revenue recognition in case of each distinct performance 
obligation. The Company ﬁrst assesses whether the revenue can be recognized over time as it performs if 
any of the following criteria is met:
 
 
a. The customer simultaneously consumes the beneﬁts as the Company performs, or
 
 
b. The customer controls the work-in-progress, or 
 
 
c. The Company's performance does not create an asset with alternative use to the Company and the 
Company has right to payment for performance completed till date
 
 
If none of the criteria above are met, the Company recognizes revenue at a point-in-time. The point of 
recognition of revenue is determined when the control of the goods or services is transferred which is 
generally determined based on when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the 
customer. Apart from this, the Company also considers its present right to payment, the legal title to the 
goods, the physical possession and the customer acceptance in determining whether the control has been 
transferred.
 
 
In case of revenue to be recognized over time, the Company uses input method to measure the progress for 
contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as it incurs costs on 
contracts. Under the input method measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is 
measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the 
performance obligation. Revenues, including estimated fees or proﬁts, are recorded proportionally as costs 
are incurred. 
 
 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the amount of transaction price 
(net of variable consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. Due to the nature of the work 
required to be performed, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex, subject to 
many variables and requires signiﬁcant judgment. It is common for project contracts to contain penalties, 
bonuses or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable 
amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or 
cost targets and may be based upon customer discretion. The transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable consideration on account of various discounts and schemes oﬀered by the 
Company as part of the contract.
 
 
The Company estimates variable consideration using expected value method of probability-weighted 
values at an amount to which it expects to be entitled. The Company includes estimated amounts in the 
transaction price to the extent it is probable that a signiﬁcant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will 
not occur and the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The estimates of 
variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
160
are based largely on an assessment of the anticipated performance and all information (historical, current 
and forecasted) that is reasonably available. 
 
 
The Company does not expect material ﬁnancing component adjustments to contracts where the period 
between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and payment exceeds one year. As a 
consequence, the Company does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.
 
 
Contracts are modiﬁed to account for changes in contract speciﬁcations and requirements. The Company 
considers contract modiﬁcations to exist when the modiﬁcation either creates new or changes the existing 
enforceable rights and obligations. Most of the contract modiﬁcations are for goods or services that are not 
distinct from the existing contract due to the signiﬁcant integration service provided in the context of the 
contract and are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract. The eﬀect of a contract 
modiﬁcation on the transaction price and measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it 
relates, is recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a 
cumulative catch-up basis. 
 
 
The Company recognizes Advances from customers as contractual liability. 
 
 
When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned on a 
performance obligation related to a contract, a provision for the entire loss on the performance obligation 
is recognized in the period.
 
(ii) Revenue from sale of services
 
 Company generate revenue from sale of pumps, valves and related support services. Revenue from services 
is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
 
(iii) Other operating revenue
 
 Revenue comprising of income from ancillary activities incidental to the operations of the Company is 
recognized when the right to receive the income is established as per the terms of the contract. Revenue 
from export incentives majorly comprises of Duty drawback, Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme 
(MEIS) and Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) which are recognised on an 
accrual basis at speciﬁed rates. Refer note 20.
 
(iv) Other income
 
 Interest income: 
 
 Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the eﬀective 
interest rate applicable. Interest income is included in Other income in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss.
 
 Dividends:
 
 Dividends are recognised in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss only when the right to receive payment is 
established, it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the dividend will ﬂow to the 
Company, and the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
f. 
Income tax
 
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax payable on the current period's taxable income based 
on the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 
attributable to temporary diﬀerences and to unused tax losses.
 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to 
situations in which applicable tax regulations is subject to interpretation.
 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary diﬀerences arising between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the ﬁnancial statements. Deferred income tax is 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
161
also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a 
business combination that at the time of the transaction aﬀects neither accounting proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt (tax 
loss). Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially 
enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset 
is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary diﬀerences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary diﬀerences and losses.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oﬀset when there is a legally enforceable right to oﬀset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are oﬀset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to oﬀset and intends either to settle on a 
net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
 
Current and deferred tax is recognised in Statement of Proﬁt and Loss, except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
g. 
Leases
 
As a lessee:
 
Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is 
available for use by the Company. Each lease payment is allocated between the principal (liability) and ﬁnance 
cost. The ﬁnance cost is charged to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss over the lease period so as to produce a 
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. 
 
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include 
the net present value of the ﬁxed payments (including in-substance ﬁxed payments), less any lease incentives 
receivable. Company does not have any variable lease payments.
 
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the measurement of 
the liability. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be 
readily determined, the lessee's incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to 
pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with 
similar terms and conditions.
 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:
 
● 
the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability
 
● 
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received
 
● 
any initial direct costs, and
 
● 
restoration costs.
 
Right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line 
basis. If the Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated 
over the underlying asset's useful life.
 
Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis 
as an expense in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or 
less.
h. 
Impairment of assets
 
The management periodically assesses, using external and internal sources, whether there is an indication that 
an asset may be impaired. If an asset is impaired, the Company recognises an impairment loss as the excess of 
the carrying amount of the asset over the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is higher of an asset's or 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
162
cash generating unit's net selling price and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of estimated future 
cash ﬂows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. 
An impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had previously been recognised.
i. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, balances with banks in current accounts and EEFC accounts, 
ﬁxed deposits with banks with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and which are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet. Other bank balances include 
ﬁxed deposits with original maturities of more than three months and earmarked accounts which includes 
unpaid dividend.
j. 
Trade receivables
 
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business and reﬂects the Company's unconditional right to consideration (that is, payment is due only on the 
passage of time). Trade receivables are recognised initially at the transaction price as they do not contain 
signiﬁcant ﬁnancing components. The Company holds the trade receivables with the objective of collecting the 
contractual cash ﬂows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the eﬀective interest 
method, less loss allowance.
k. 
Borrowing and Borrowing costs
 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost. Any diﬀerence between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption 
amount is recognised in proﬁt or loss over the period of the borrowings using the eﬀective interest method. 
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation speciﬁed in the contract is discharged, 
cancelled or expired.
 
Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period.
 
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying 
asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the 
year in which they are incurred.
l. 
Inventories 
 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
 
Cost of raw materials, components, stores, spares, loose tools and traded goods comprises cost of purchases. 
Cost of work-in progress and ﬁnished goods comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate 
proportion of variable and ﬁxed overhead expenditure, the latter being allocated on the basis of normal 
operating capacity. Cost of inventories also include all other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Costs are assigned to individual items of inventory on the basis of weighted 
average basis. Costs of purchased inventory are determined after deducting rebates and discounts. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
m. 
Financial assets
 
i. 
Classiﬁcation 
 
 
The Company classiﬁes its ﬁnancial assets in the following measurement categories:
 
 
● those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or 
through proﬁt or loss), and
 
 
● those measured at amortised cost.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
163
 
 
The classiﬁcation depends on the entity's business model for managing the ﬁnancial assets and the 
contractual terms of the cash ﬂows.
 
 
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in proﬁt or loss or other 
comprehensive income. For investments in debt instruments, this will depend on the business model in 
which the investment is held. 
 
 
For investments in equity instruments, this will depend on whether the Company has made an irrevocable 
election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other 
comprehensive income.
 
 
The Company assesses whether the ﬁnancial asset falls within the deﬁnition of equity basis the underlying 
contractual terms and whether the Company has residual interest in the assets of the entity (investee) after 
deducting all of its liabilities. If the ﬁnancial asset does not meet the deﬁnition of equity, the disclosure of 
same is assessed based on the substance of the transaction. During the year, the Company has subscribed 
shares in a power producer entity as per the regulatory requirement as set out in Electricity Rules, 2005. 
Based on the substance of transaction, the amount has been disclosed as security deposit.
 
 
The Company reclassiﬁes debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
 
ii. Measurement
 
 
At initial recognition, the Company measures a ﬁnancial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a ﬁnancial 
asset not at fair value through proﬁt or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the ﬁnancial asset. Transaction costs of ﬁnancial assets carried at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss are expensed in Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. However, trade receivables that do not contain a 
signiﬁcant ﬁnancing component are measured at transaction price.
 
 
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their 
cash ﬂows are solely payment of principal and interest.
 
 
Debt instruments
 
 
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Company's business model for managing the 
asset and the cash ﬂow characteristics of the asset. The Company classiﬁes its debt instruments at amortised 
cost as below:
 
● Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash ﬂows where those cash ﬂows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. A gain or loss on a 
debt investment that is subsequently measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging 
relationship is recognised in proﬁt or loss when the asset is derecognised or impaired. Interest income 
from these ﬁnancial assets is included in other income using the eﬀective interest rate method.
 
 
Equity instruments
 
 
The Company subsequently measures equity investment at fair value. The Company's Management elects 
to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income on an 
instrument by instrument basis.
 
 
Investment in subsidiaries and associates
 
 
The investments in subsidiaries and associates are carried in the ﬁnancial statements at historical cost 
except when the investment, or a portion thereof, is classiﬁed as held for sale, in which case measured at 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
 
 
Investments in subsidiaries carried at cost are tested for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36 
Impairment of Assets. The carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment as a single asset by 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
164
comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying amount, any impairment loss recognised reduces the 
carrying amount of the investment.
 
iii. Impairment of ﬁnancial assets
 
 
The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a signiﬁcant 
increase in credit risk. Refer note 35(A) for details of credit risk.
 
 
For trade receivables, the Company applies the simpliﬁed approach permitted by Ind AS 109 Financial 
Instruments, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the 
receivables.
 
iv. Derecognition of ﬁnancial assets
 
 
A ﬁnancial asset is derecognised only when 
 
 
● The Company has transferred the rights to receive cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial asset or
 
 
● retains the contractual rights to receive the cash ﬂows of the ﬁnancial asset but assumes a contractual 
obligation to pay the cash ﬂows to one or more recipients.
 
 
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially 
all risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial asset. In such cases, the ﬁnancial asset is derecognised. 
Where the entity has not transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial asset, 
the ﬁnancial asset is not derecognised.
 
 
Where the entity has neither transferred a ﬁnancial asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the ﬁnancial asset, the ﬁnancial asset is derecognised if the Company has not retained control 
of the ﬁnancial asset. Where the Company retains control of the ﬁnancial asset, the asset is continued to be 
recognised to the extent of continuing involvement in the ﬁnancial asset.
n. 
Oﬀsetting ﬁnancial instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are oﬀset, and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet where there is a 
legally enforceable right to oﬀset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency 
or bankruptcy of the Company or the counterparty.
o. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
Freehold land is stated at historical cost. All other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at 
historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts associated with the item will ﬂow to the Company and 
the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a 
separate asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Statement 
of Proﬁt and Loss during the reporting period in which they are incurred.
 
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value
 
Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method/ written down value method over the useful lives of assets 
which has been assessed as under the technical advice, taking into account the nature of the asset, the estimated 
usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past history of replacement, maintenance support, etc., 
which are diﬀerent from those prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) except for server and 
networking (SLM) and furniture and ﬁxtures (WDV) which are same as prescribed in Schedule II to the Act. 
Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
165
 
   Asset  
Useful life and method of depreciation
 
   Buildings 
43 to 90 years (WDV) 
 
   Plant and equipment 
09 to 21 years (SLM) 
 
   Vehicles 
05 to 11 years (WDV) 
 
   Oﬃce equipment 
10 years (SLM) 
 
   Computer equipment 
06 years (SLM)
 
The asset's residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of the reporting 
period. 
 
An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying 
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
 
Net gains or net losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
included in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss under other income or other expenses respectively.
p. 
Intangible assets 
 
Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost net of tax/ duty credits availed, if any, and net of accumulated 
amortisation. Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of an intangible asset are determined as 
the diﬀerence between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and recognised as income 
or expense in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. Intangible assets are amortized on the straight-line method as 
follows:
   
   Asset  
Useful life 
 
   Copyrights, patents, intellectual property rights and operating rights 
7 to 15 years
 
   Computer software 
3 years
q. 
Trade and other payables
 
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Company prior to the end of 
ﬁnancial year which are unpaid. Trade and other payables are unsecured and are presented as current liabilities 
unless payment is not due within operating cycle determined by the Company after the reporting period. They 
are recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the eﬀective 
interest method. 
r. 
Provisions and Contingent liabilities
 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event and it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are determined based on the best estimate 
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date. Provisions are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date 
and adjusted to reﬂect current best estimates. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. 
Provision for warranty is computed as a percentage of sales based on the past trends observed.
 
Contingent liabilities are disclosed by way of a note to the ﬁnancial statements when there is a possible 
obligation arising from past  events, the existence of which will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Company or a present 
obligation that arises from past events where it is either not probable that an outﬂow of resources will be 
required to settle or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made.
s. 
Employee beneﬁts
 
(i) Short-term obligations
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
166
 
 
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary beneﬁts that are expected to be settled wholly 
within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service are 
recognised in respect of employees' services up to the end of the reporting period and are measured at the 
amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are presented as current 
employee beneﬁt obligations in the balance sheet.
 
(ii)  Other long-term employee beneﬁt obligations
 
 
The liabilities for Other long-term employee beneﬁts such as long service award, privileged leave and sick 
leave are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service. They are therefore measured as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The beneﬁts are discounted using the market yields at the end of the 
reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements as 
a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Statement of 
Proﬁt and Loss. The Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these 
obligations. However, based on the past experience, the Company does not expect payment of the entire 
amount of accrued leaves or availment of the entire number of accrued leaves by employees within twelve 
months and accordingly, amounts have been classiﬁed as current and non-current.
 
(iii) Post-employment obligations
 
 
The Company operates the following post-employment schemes: 
 
 
(a)  Deﬁned beneﬁt plans - gratuity and superannuation
 
 
(b)  Deﬁned contribution plans - provident fund
 
 
 
(a)  Deﬁned beneﬁt plans - gratuity and superannuation
 
 
 
 
(i)  Gratuity  
 
 
 
 
 
The Company provides for gratuity, a deﬁned beneﬁt plan (the “Gratuity Plan”) covering 
eligible employees in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, as amended from 
time to time. The Gratuity Plan provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at 
retirement, death or termination of employment, of an amount based on the respective 
employee's salary and the tenure of employment.
 
 
 
 
 
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt gratuity plans 
is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the end of the reporting period less the 
fair value of plan assets. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method.
 
 
 
 
 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outﬂows by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on 
government bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
 
 
 
 
 
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the deﬁned 
beneﬁt obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in ﬁnance cost in the 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss.
 
 
 
 
 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive 
income. They are included in retained earnings in the Statement of Changes in Equity and in 
the Balance Sheet.
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation resulting from plan amendments 
or curtailments are recognised immediately in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss as past service 
cost.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
167
 
 
 
 
(ii)  Superannuation
 
 
 
 
 
Superannuation is a beneﬁt to certain employees (depending on the grade / category of the 
employee and completed years of service) per month for each completed year of service. The 
accounting policy followed by the Company for Superannuation is consistent with accounting 
policy followed for Gratuity [Refer note 1(s)(iii)(a)(i)].
 
 
 
 (b)  Deﬁned Contribution Plans
 
 
 
 
The Company pays provident fund contributions for all employees to publicly administered 
provident funds as per local regulations. The Company has no further payment obligations once 
the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted for as deﬁned contribution 
plans and the contributions are recognised as employee beneﬁts expense when they are due.
t. 
Dividends 
 
The Company recognizes provision for Dividend and the tax thereupon, if any, once the Dividend is approved 
by the shareholders in the annual general meeting. 
u. 
Contributed equity
 
Equity shares are classiﬁed as equity.
 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds. 
v. 
Earnings per share
 
i. Basic Earnings per share
 
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
 
 
● the net proﬁt for the period attributable to equity shareholders
 
 
● by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the ﬁnancial year.
 
 
Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company's earnings per share is the net proﬁt for the period after 
deducting any attributable tax thereto for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the period and for all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares or 
share split, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that have changed the number of equity 
shares outstanding, without a corresponding change in resources.  
 
ii. Diluted Earnings per share
 
 
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the ﬁgures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
 
 
● the after-income tax eﬀect of interest and other ﬁnancing costs associated with dilutive potential equity 
shares, and
 
 
● the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming 
the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
 
Other accounting policies:
 
a. Government grants
 
 
Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the 
grant will be received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants 
relating to income are recognised in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. Refer note 1(e)(iii) for accounting 
policy related to Duty drawback, Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme (MEIS) and Remission of Duties 
and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP).
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
168
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
 
When government or related institutions provide concession in interest on borrowings or loans availed by 
the Company from ﬁnancial institutions, such interest concession is regarded as a government grant. The 
Company accounts for the interest paid at concessional rate on packing credit facility availed for export of 
goods.
 
b. Derivatives
 
 
The Company enters into certain derivative contracts to hedge risks which are not designated as hedges. 
Such contracts are accounted for at fair value through proﬁt or loss.
 
c. Rounding of amounts:
 
 
Amounts disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements are presented in INR in million rounded oﬀ to two decimal 
places as permitted by Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, unless otherwise stated.
2.   
Signiﬁcant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires the use of accounting estimates which, by deﬁnition, will 
seldom equal the actual results. Management also needs to exercise judgement in applying the company's 
accounting policies. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reliable and relevant 
under the circumstances. This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, and of items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and 
assumptions turning out to be diﬀerent than those originally assessed. Management believes that the estimates 
are the most likely outcome of future events. Detailed information about each of these estimates and 
judgements is described below.
 
Judgements
 
In the process of applying the Company's accounting policies, Management has made the following 
judgements, which have the most signiﬁcant eﬀect on the amounts recognized in the ﬁnancial statements:
 
i. 
Legal contingencies
 
 
The Company has received various orders and notices from tax authorities in respect of direct taxes and 
indirect taxes. The outcome of these matters may have a material eﬀect on the ﬁnancial position, results of 
operations or cash ﬂows. Management regularly analyzes current information about these matters and 
provides provisions for probable contingent losses including the estimate of legal expense to resolve the 
matters. In making the decision regarding the need for loss provisions, management considers the degree 
of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a suﬃciently reliable estimate of the 
amount of loss. The ﬁling of a suit or formal assertion of a claim against the Company or the disclosure of 
any such suit or assertions, does not automatically indicate that a provision of a loss may be appropriate.
 
ii. 
Revenue Recognition on Contracts with Customers
 
 
Company generate revenue from sale of Pumps, valves and related support services. Company uses 
judgement with respect to accounting of multiple contracts which need to be combined and considered as 
single contract. The Company exercises judgement with respect to identifying contracts for which 
revenue need to be recognised point in time or over time, depending upon when customer consumes the 
beneﬁt, when the control is passed to customer, whether asset created has an alternative use and whether 
the Company has right to payment for performance completed till date, either contractually or legally.
 
Estimates and assumptions
 
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting 
date, that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
169
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year, are described below. The Company based its assumptions and 
estimates on parameters available when the ﬁnancial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and 
assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising 
that are beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reﬂected in the assumptions when they occur.
 
i.  
Warranty 
 
 
The Company generally oﬀers an 18 months warranty for its products, except for certain projects where 
the warranty oﬀered may be higher to meet speciﬁc project requirements. Warranty costs are determined 
as a percentage of sales based on the past trends of the costs required to be incurred for repairs, 
replacements, material costs and servicing cost. Management estimates the related closing provision as at 
Balance Sheet date for future warranty claims based on historical warranty claim information, as well as 
recent trends that might suggest that past information may diﬀer from future claims. The assumptions 
made in current period are consistent with those in the prior year. As the time value of money is not 
considered to be material, warranty provisions are not discounted. Refer note 18 for further information.
 
ii. 
Gratuity
 
 
The cost of the deﬁned beneﬁt gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuation. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may diﬀer 
from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary 
increases, attrition rate, mortality rates and expected return on planned assets. Due to the complexities 
involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is highly sensitive to 
changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at the year end. The parameter most subject 
to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the 
management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent with the currencies 
of the post-employment beneﬁt obligation. The mortality rate is based on Indian Assured Lives Mortality 
(2012-14) Ultimate. Those mortality tables tend to change only at interval in response to demographic 
changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inﬂation rates. For 
further details about gratuity obligations are given in note 31.
 
iii. Recoverability of trade receivables
 
 
Judgements are required in assessing the recoverability of overdue trade receivables and determining 
whether a provision against those receivables is required. Factors considered include the credit rating of 
the counterparty, the amount and timing of anticipated future payments and any possible actions that can 
be taken to mitigate the risk of non-payment. Refer note 35(A) for further details.
 
iv. 
Inventories
 
 
An inventory provision is recognized for cases where the realizable value is estimated to be lower than the 
inventory carrying value. The inventory provision is estimated takinginto account various factors, 
including prevailing sale prices of inventory item and losses associated with obsolete / slow moving / 
redundant inventory items. The Company has, based on these assessments, made adequate provision in 
the books.
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
170
3 
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and ﬁxtures
Vehicles
Oﬃce 
equipment
Total
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and ﬁxtures
Vehicles
Oﬃce 
equipment
Total
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Gross carrying amount as at 
January 1, 2023 
 3.01  
 2,299.16  
 5,053.07  
 144.54  
 70.68  
 210.39  
 7,780.85 
Additions 
 -    
 327.88  
 420.24  
 52.87  
 23.55  
 147.72  
 972.26 
Disposals 
 -    
 (1.67) 
 (131.88) 
 (1.83) 
 (3.79) 
 (16.13) 
 (155.30)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 3.01  
 2,625.37  
 5,341.43  
 195.58  
 90.44  
 341.98  
 8,597.81 
Accumulated depreciation 
January 1, 2023 
 -    
 1,019.52  
 3,255.42  
 126.43  
 49.82  
 115.02  
 4,566.21 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 -    
 130.72  
 288.78  
 11.39  
 19.71  
 19.78  
 470.38 
Disposals 
 -    
 (1.50) 
 (126.30) 
 (1.76) 
 (3.71) 
 (15.91) 
 (149.18)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 -    
 1,148.74  
 3,417.90  
 136.06  
 65.82  
 118.89  
 4,887.41 
Net carrying amount as at 
December 31, 2023 
 3.01  
 1,476.63  
 1,923.53  
 59.52  
 24.62  
 223.09  
 3,710.40 
Gross carrying amount as at 
January 1, 2024 
 3.01  
 2,625.37  
 5,341.43  
 195.58  
 90.44  
 341.98  
 8,597.81 
Additions 
 -    
 129.27  
 465.15  
 7.99  
 34.93  
 20.93  
 658.27 
Disposals 
 -    
 (0.07) 
 (81.99) 
 (0.67) 
 (13.68) 
 (2.98) 
 (99.39)
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 3.01  
 2,754.57  
 5,724.59  
 202.90  
 111.69  
 359.93  
 9,156.69 
Accumulated depreciation as at 
January 1, 2024 
 -    
 1,148.74  
 3,417.90  
 136.06  
 65.82  
 118.89  
 4,887.41 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 -    
 149.17  
 272.68  
 23.49  
 24.32  
 29.92  
 499.58 
Disposals 
 -    
 (0.06) 
 (80.56) 
 (0.64) 
 (11.52) 
 (2.26) 
 (95.04)
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 -    
 1,297.85  
 3,610.02  
 158.91  
 78.62  
 146.55  
 5,291.95 
Net carrying amount as at 
December 31, 2024 
 3.01  
 1,456.72  
 2,114.57  
 43.99  
 33.07  
 213.38  
 3,864.74 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
171
Notes:
(i) Refer to note 30 (b) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and 
equipment.
(ii) Capital work-in-progress mainly includes building under construction and plant and machinery in the process of 
installation.
(iii) Gross additions to capital work-in-progress and transfers to property, plant and equipment are as follows:
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Capital work-in-progress
As at  
December 31, 2024
As at  
December 31, 2023
Opening carrying value 
 310.25  
 
 251.43
Additions 
876.10  
 1,007.53 
Transfers to property, plant and equipment 
(658.27) 
 (948.71)
Closing carrying value 
 528.08  
 310.25 
(a)  Aging of Capital work-in-progress:
As at December 31, 2023
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
(i) Projects in progress 
 281.04  
 23.72  
5.49 
 -    
310.25
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
281.04 
23.72 
5.49 
 -    
310.25
As at December 31, 2024
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
(i) Projects in progress 
 337.16  
 173.51  
15.52 
 1.89  
528.08
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Total 
337.16 
173.51 
15.52 
 1.89  
528.08
(b)  There are no assets under capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan.
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
Particulars 
Particulars 
Particulars 
172
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
4 
Right-of-use assets
          
 
Leasehold land 
Buildings 
Total
Particulars
Gross carrying amount as at January 1, 2023 
 
265.09 
50.38 
315.47 
Additions 
 
- 
13.71 
13.71 
Disposals 
 
 - 
(12.21) 
(12.21)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 
265.09 
51.88 
316.97 
Accumulated depreciation as at January 1, 2023 
 
22.61 
23.78 
46.39 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 
2.81 
10.73 
13.54 
Disposals 
 
- 
(12.21) 
(12.21)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 
25.42 
22.30 
47.72 
Net carrying amount as at December 31, 2023 
239.67 
29.58 
269.25 
 
 
 
 
 
         Particulars 
Leasehold land 
Buildings 
Total 
Gross carrying amount as at January 1, 2024 
 265.09  
 51.88  
 316.97  
Additions 
 59.64  
 13.77  
 73.41  
Disposals 
 -    
 (7.28) 
 (7.28) 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 324.73  
 58.37  
 383.10  
Accumulated depreciation as at January 1, 2024 
 25.42  
 22.30 
 47.72  
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 3.02  
 12.46  
 15.48  
Disposals 
 -    
 (7.28) 
 (7.28) 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 28.44  
 27.48  
 55.92  
Net carrying amount as at December 31, 2024 
 296.29  
 30.89  
 327.18  
Details of Leases : The Company’s leasing arrangements include land and building for oﬃce premises and service 
stations. Leasehold land mainly pertains to manufacturing plant located at Shirwal. Rental contracts for oﬃce 
premises and service stations are typically made for ﬁxed periods of 3 to 15 years, but have extension options. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Amount recognised in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss
         Particulars 
Note 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
26 
3.30 
 
2.98 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets  
27 
15.48 
 
13.54 
Expenses related to short term leases  
28 
7.88 
 
10.44 
(included in Miscellaneous expenses in Other expenses)
The total cash outﬂow for the year ended December 31, 2024 for leases is INR 22.95 million (December 31, 2023: 
INR 23.59 million). 
 
(ii) Extension and Termination option : 
Extension and termination options are included in a number of  lease contracts. These terms are used to maximise 
operational ﬂexibility in terms of managing contracts. 
 
 
 
 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
173
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Computer software
Copyrights, patents, 
intellectual property rights 
and operating rights 
 Total
Computer software
Copyrights, patents, 
intellectual property rights 
and operating rights 
 Total
(a)  Aging of Intangible assets under development:
As at December 31, 2023
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
As at December 31, 2024
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
(i) Projects in progress 
9.49 
8.99 
- 
- 
18.48 
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-   
 
Total 
9.49 
8.99 
- 
- 
18.48 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
5 
Other Intangible assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Particulars
 
Gross carrying amount 
 
as at January 1, 2023 
- 
118.97 
118.97
 
Additions 
181.81 
24.25 
206.06
 
Disposals 
- 
(3.42) 
(3.42)
 
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
181.81 
139.80 
321.61
 
Accumulated Amortisation
 
Balance as at January 1, 2023 
- 
101.92 
101.92
 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
1.25 
11.61 
12.86
 
Disposals 
- 
(3.41) 
(3.41)
 
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
1.25 
110.12 
111.37
 
Net carrying amount 
 
as at December 31, 2023 
180.56 
29.68 
210.24
 
Particulars
         
 
Gross carrying amount 
 
as at January 1, 2024 
181.81 
139.80 
321.61  
 
Additions 
- 
10.66 
10.66  
 
Disposals 
- 
(0.88) 
(0.88) 
 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
181.81 
149.58 
331.39  
 
Accumulated Amortisation
 
Balance as at January 1, 2024 
1.25 
110.12 
111.37  
 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
12.60 
15.58 
28.18  
 
Disposals 
- 
(0.88) 
(0.88) 
 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
13.85 
124.82 
138.67  
 
Net carrying amount 
 
as at December 31, 2024 
167.96 
24.76 
192.72  
(i) Projects in progress 
13.75  
 - 
- 
 -    
13.75
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
13.75 
- 
- 
 -    
13.75
         Particulars
         Particulars
174
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
6(a) 
Investments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Particulars
As at
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Investment in subsidiary
 
Pofran Sales & Agency Ltd. - 5000 equity shares 
0.50 
0.50  
 
(December 31, 2023 - 5000 equity shares) 
 
of INR 100 each fully paid 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment in associate
 
KSB MIL Controls Ltd. - 735,000 equity shares 
62.65 
  
62.65
 
(December 31, 2023 - 735,000 equity shares) 
 
of INR 10 each fully paid 
 
Investment in equity instruments of other entities
 
Mula Pravara Electric Co - operative Society Ltd. - 15,995 
0.40 
0.40
 
equity shares (December 31, 2023 - 15,995 equity shares) 
 
of INR 25 each fully paid 
  
 
Total (unquoted investments) 
 
63.55 
  
63.55
 
Less : Aggregate amount of provision 
 
(0.40) 
(0.40 
 
for impairment in the value of investments 
 
Total Investments 
 
63.15 
 
63.15
(b) There are no assets under capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan.
(c)  Intangible assets under development 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Particulars
As at
As at
 
 
 
 
       
December 31, 2024
December 31, 2023
 
Opening carrying value 
 
13.75 
   
- 
 
Additions 
 
15.39 
 
219.81 
 
Transfers to Intangible assets 
 
(10.66) 
 
(206.06)
 
Closing carrying value 
 
18.48 
13.75 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
175
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
6(b) 
Loans
 
 
 
As at 
Non-current
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Unsecured, considered good 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans to employees 
 
80.24 
 
 
73.91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
80.24 
73.91  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Unsecured, considered good 
 
Loans and advances to employees 
  
52.95 
 
 
27.96
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
52.95 
 
27.96
 
 
 
7 
Trade receivables
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Trade receivables 
  
5,946.98 
 
4,542.68 
 
Trade receivables from related parties (Refer note 32) 
795.39 
 
569.56
 
 
 
 6,742.37 
   
 
5,112.24
 
Less: Loss allowance* 
 
(220.50) 
 
(152.71)
 
 
Total 
 6,521.87 
  
4,959.53
 
Current portion 
 
 6,502.73 
   
4,917.19
 
Non-current portion 
 
 19.14 
 
42.34
 
 
 
 
Break-up of security details 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Trade receivables considered good - Unsecured 
6,521.87 
 
4,959.53 
 
Trade receivables - credit impaired 
 
220.50 
 
152.71 
 
 
 
6,742.37 
  
5,112.24
 
Less: Loss allowance* 
 
(220.50) 
 
(152.71)
 
 
Total 
6,521.87 
 
4,959.53 
 
*The net impact of change in loss allowance of INR 67.79 millions (December 31, 2023:- reversal of INR 56.29 
millions) has been included in Miscelleneous expenses (refer note 28) 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
176
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Aging of trade receivables
 
 
 
As at December 31, 2023
 
 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
Less than 6 months  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
6 months 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
Undisputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- considered good 
 1,812.36   2,883.69   126.51  
 64.55  
 18.68  
 53.74   4,959.53 
 
 
- which have signiﬁcant  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
  increase in credit risk
 
 
- credit impaired 
 -    
 1.81  
 1.09  
 55.74  
 23.52  
 15.05  
97.21
Disputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- considered good 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
- which have signiﬁcant  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
   increase in credit risk
 
 
- credit impaired 
 -    
 -    
 3.60  
 0.35  
 1.81  
 49.74  
 55.50 
 
 
                              Total 
 1,812.36   2,885.50   131.20  
 120.64  
 44.01  
 118.53   5,112.24 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2024
 
 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
Less than 6 months  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
6 months 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
Undisputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  considered good 
 1,613.36   4,127.71   424.27  
 275.38  
 30.50  
 50.65   6,521.87 
 
 
-  which have signiﬁcant   
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
   increase in credit risk
 
 
-  credit impaired 
 -    
 -    
 1.00  
 67.14  
 40.06  
 45.70  
 153.90 
 
Disputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  considered good 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
-  which have signiﬁcant   
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
  increase in credit risk
 
 
- credit impaired 
 -    
 1.10  
 -    
 16.33  
 4.97  
 44.20  
 66.60 
 
 
                              Total 
1,613.36   4,128.81   425.27  
 358.85  
 75.53  
 140.55   6,742.37 
8 (a) 
 Cash and  cash equivalents  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 In current accounts 
 
345.66 
  
191.63
 
 In EEFC accounts 
 
313.09 
 
283.28 
 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months 
300.00 
 
720.00 
 
Cash on hand 
 
0.12 
 
0.22 
 
  
Total 
958.87 
 
1,195.13 
 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
177
8 (b)  Bank balances other than 8 (a) above  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
 
As at 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed deposits* 
  
2,268.00 
  
 1,542.96
 
In earmarked accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
Unpaid dividend accounts 
 
 7.67 
 
7.44 
 
 
Total 
2,275.67 
 
1,550.40
 
*Includes INR 500.70 million (December 31, 2023: INR 988.44 million) held as lien by bank against credit facilities. 
 
 
9 
Other ﬁnancial assets 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-current 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Unsecured, considered good
 
Security deposits  
 
77.72 
 
42.28 
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed deposits with balance maturity more than one year* 
0.26  
-
    
Unsecured, considered doubtful 
 
Security deposits 
 
 5.30 
 
5.30 
 
 
 
83.28 
47.58 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful security deposits 
(5.30) 
 
 (5.30)
 
 
Total 
 77.98  
  
42.28
 
*Includes INR 0.26 million (December 31, 2023: Nil ) held as lien by bank against credit facilities. 
 
 
 
Current 
 
As at 
 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023
 
Interest accrued on deposits with banks 
 
94.36 
 
63.41 
 
Derivative asset 
 
- 
 
0.54 
 
Others* 
 
22.33 
  
50.80
 
 
Total 
116.69 
 
114.75 
 
*Others include export incentives and GST rebate receivable. 
 
 
 
10 
 Inventories  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Raw materials (includes in transit INR 97.6 million; 
 
December 31, 2023: INR 104.2 million) 
 
2,284.32 
 
2,670.49 
 
Work-in-progress 
 
2,949.68 
 
2,719.16 
 
Finished goods (includes in transit INR 259.19 million; 
 
December 31, 2023: INR 192.15 million)  
931.89 
 
774.98 
 
Stock-in-trade 
 
177.34 
 
184.83 
 
Stores and spares 
 
62.53 
 
71.14 
 
Loose tools 
 
22.47 
 
5.74 
 
 
 Total 
6,428.23 
 
6,426.34 
 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is disclosed in Note 22, 23 and 24. The cost of 
inventories recognised as an expense include write-down of inventories of INR 90.41 million (December 31, 
2023: INR 124.76 million) and reversal of write-down of inventories of INR 92.59 million (December 31, 2023: 
INR 189.30 million). 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
178
11 
Other non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Capital advances 
 
116.41 
  
130.73  
 
Advances other than capital advances
 
Prepaid expenses 
  
28.70 
  
13.43
 
Balances with government authorities
 
Considered good 
 
199.07 
199.07
 
Considered doubtful 
 
- 
 -
 
  
 
199.07
 
 
199.07  
 
Less: Provision for doubtful balances 
  
- 
 
- 
 
 
 
199.07 
  
 199.07
 
 
 Total 
344.18 
 
343.23 
12 
Other current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
 
As at 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Prepaid expenses 
  
 32.45 
 
 
23.69 
 
Balances with government authorities  
 
 
 
 
 
Considered good 
 
 68.72 
 
45.48
 
Considered doubtful 
 
 28.65  
 28.65
 
 
 
 97.37 
   
74.13
 
Less: Provision for doubtful balances  
 
(28.65) 
 
(28.65)
 
 
 
68.72 
45.48
 
Others* 
 
 
 
 
 
Considered good 
 
 600.61
 
 
360.24 
 
Considered doubtful 
 
 11.59 
 
 11.59 
 
 
  
612.20
 
 
371.83 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful balances 
 
(11.59) 
 
 (11.59)
 
 
 
600.61 
 
360.24
 
 
 Total 
701.78
 
 
429.41 
 
*Others mainly include advances paid to suppliers which would be subsequently settled against purchases. 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
179
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
13 (a) Deferred tax assets (net) 
 
 
 
 
The balance of deferred tax comprises temporary diﬀerences attributable to: 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023 
 
Deferred tax assets
 
Provision for compensated absences, gratuity,  
129.75 
 
112.51 
 
superannuation and  long service award
 
Provision for loss allowance on trade and other receivables 
67.06 
 
50.00 
 
Fair value loss on derivative instruments 
0.31 
   
- 
 
Lease Liabilities 
8.65 
 
8.14 
 
Others (including allowances on payment basis) 
88.88 
 
91.05 
 
 
294.65 
261.70
 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Impact of diﬀerence between income tax depreciation  
 
 
 
 
and depreciation in ﬁnancial reporting  
95.59  
  
 76.27
 
Right of Use Assets 
7.77 
 
7.44 
 
Fair value gain on derivative instruments 
- 
 
0.14 
 
 
103.36 
 
83.85 
 
Deferred tax assets (net) 
191.29 
 
 
177.85 
 
Changes in Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) in Statement of Proﬁt and Loss including Other Comprehensive 
Income [ credited / (charged) during the year ] 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended 
 
Year Ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Provision for compensated absences, gratuity, 
 
superannuation and  long service award 
17.24 
 
6.14 
 
Provision for loss allowance on trade and other receivables 
17.06 
 
(14.98)
 
Impact of diﬀerence between income tax depreciation and 
 
depreciation in ﬁnancial reporting  
(19.32) 
 
(4.00)
 
Fair value of derivative instruments 
0.45 
 
(0.69)
 
Lease Liabilities 
0.51 
 
0.89 
 
Right of Use Assets 
(0.33) 
  
0.75
 
Others 
(2.17) 
  
22.89
 
                                                                               Total 
13.44 
 
11.00 
13 (b) Income taxes 
 
 
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 are:
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss  
 
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Current income tax  
 
-   Current tax on proﬁt for the current year 
825.48 
 
713.15 
 
-   Adjustments for current tax of prior periods 
(10.41) 
 
8.47
 
 
815.07 
 
721.62
 
Deferred tax 
(4.19) 
 
(18.98)
 
Total tax expense reported in the 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
810.88 
 
702.64
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
180
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Other comprehensive income 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Deferred tax relating to remeasurement of  
9.25 
 
(7.98)
 
post employment beneﬁt obligations 
 
Deﬀerred tax credit/ (charge) to Other comprehensive income 
9.25 
 
 
(7.98)
 
Movement in income tax liabilities / (assets) (net) 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening balance  [payable/ (receivable)] 
(183.49) 
 
(209.18)
 
Add : Current tax payable (including tax for prior period) 
815.07 
 
721.62 
 
Less : Taxes paid (including tax paid for prior period,  
(667.47) 
 
(695.93)
 
          net of refunds)
 
Closing balance [payable/ (receivable)] 
(35.89) 
 
(183.49)
 
Income Tax assets (net) 
(110.59) 
 
(183.49)
 
Current tax liabilities (net) 
74.70 
    
- 
 
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting proﬁt multiplied by statutory income tax rate : 
 
 
Year ended 
 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023
 
Accounting proﬁt before tax 
3,219.90 
  
2,748.77
 
Tax at statutory income tax rate of 25.17%  (2023: 25.17%) 
810.38 
 
691.81 
 
Tax eﬀect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) 
 
in calculating taxable income 
 
-  Dividend Income 
(11.93) 
 
(9.90)
 
-  Donations 
11.63 
  
10.07
 
-  Other items 
11.21 
  
2.19
 
Adjustments for current-tax of prior periods 
(10.41) 
 
8.47 
 
Income tax expense 
810.88 
 
702.64
14 (a) Equity share capital 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Authorised equity share capital :
 
20,00,00,000 Equity shares of INR 2 each* 
 
(December 31, 2023 : 20,00,00,000 Equity 
 
shares of INR 2 each) 
 
400.00 
  
400.00
 
 
Total 
400.00 
 
 
400.00 
 
Issued, subscribed and paid up :
 
17,40,39,220 Equity shares of INR 2 each*  
 
(December 31, 2023 : 17,40,39,220 Equity 
 
shares of INR 2 each) 
 
348.08 
 
348.08 
 
 
Total 
348.08 
 
 
348.08 
 
(i)  
Reconciliation of number of equity shares 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year 
17,40,39,220 
17,40,39,220
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
181
*The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on April 26, 2024 recommended the sub-division/split of 
1 (One) fully paid-up equity share having a face value of ` 10 each into 5 (Five) fully paid-up equity shares having a face 
value of ` 2 each by alteration of capital clause of the Memorandum of Association (MOA) subject to the approval of 
Members of the Company. Further, the Board of Directors approved the Record Date for Split/Sub-division of Equity 
Shares. The Members of the Company approved the sub-division/Split of 1 (One) fully paid up equity share of ` 10 each 
into 5 (Five) fully paid-up equity shares of ` 2 each through an ordinary resolution passed in the Annual General Meeting 
held on June 27, 2024 with the requisite majority. The voting results were declared on June 29, 2024.
Consequent to this, the authorised share capital comprises 20,00,00,000 equity shares having a face value of ` 2 each 
aggregating to 40,00,00,000, and the paid-up capital comprises 17,40,39,220 equity shares having a face value of ` 2 
each aggregating to 34,80,78,440. The impact of this has been considered in the ﬁnancial statement. 
 
(ii)  Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares
 
 
The Company has only one class of shares referred to as equity shares having a face value of ` 2 per share. 
Each equity shareholder is entitled to one vote per share. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors 
is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting except in case of interim 
dividend. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive 
remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in 
proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  Shares of the Company held by Ultimate Holding Company / Holding Company and/ or their Subsidiaries/ 
Associates
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
7,05,54,240
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. (Holding Company) 
 
 
 
7,05,54,240  
 
(iv) Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity shares in the 
Company 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of the shareholder 
As at December 31, 2024 
 
 
As at December 31, 2023 
 
 
% holding 
No. of shares 
% holding 
No. of shares
 
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. 
40.54% 
7,05,54,240 
 
40.54% 
7,05,54,240
 
 
Industrial & Prudential Investment Co. Ltd. 
21.55% 
3,75,00,000 
  
21.55% 
3,75,00,000
 
(v)  Details of shareholding of promoters:
 
 
Name of the shareholder 
  As at 
 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
No. of  
%  
%  
No. of  
% 
%  
 
 
shares 
holding change  
shares 
holding 
change 
 
 
 
 
during 
 
 
during
 
 
 
 
the year 
 
 
 
the year
 
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. 
7,05,54,240 40.54% 
- 7,05,54,240 40.54% 
-   
 
 
Vikram Swarup Family Trust 
3,02,000 
0.17% 
- 
3,02,000 
0.17% 
-   
 
 
Vikram Swarup 
2,00,000 
0.11% 
- 
 
2,00,000 
0.11% 
-  
 
 
Gaurav Swarup 
1,70,000 
0.10% 
- 
 
1,70,000 
0.10% 
- 
 
 
Bindu Vikram Swarup 
80,000 
0.05% 
- 
80,000 
0.05% 
-
 
 
Parul Swarup 
15,290 
0.01% 
- 
 
15,290 
0.01% 
-  
 
 
Paharpur Cooling Towers Limited 
72,50,000 
4.17% 
- 
  
72,50,000 
4.17% 
- 
 
 
TKIL Industries Pvt Ltd* 
54,00,000 
3.10% 
- 
   
54,00,000 
3.10% 
-
 
 
Industrial & Prudential Investment Co. Ltd. 3,75,00,000 21.55% 
- 
3,75,00,000 21.55% 
-   
*During the reporting period, Paharpur Cooling Towers Limited acquired shares in TKIL Industries Private Limited 
(formerly known as ThyssenKrupp Industries India Private Limited), which has resulted in TKIL Industries Private 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
182
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Limited (formerly known as ThyssenKrupp Industries India Private Limited) becoming a promoter of the Company. It is 
pertinent to note that there has been no change in the number of shares held by either Paharpur Cooling Towers Limited 
or TKIL Industries Private Limited (formerly known as ThyssenKrupp Industries India Private Limited) in the 
Company, and the overall shareholding structure in the Company remains unchanged.
 
(vi)  There were neither shares bought back nor allotted either as fully paid bonus shares or under any contract 
without payment being received in cash, during the ﬁve years immediately preceding December 31, 2024. 
 
 
14 (b) Other equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Retained earnings 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening balance 
11,041.83 
 
9,494.07
 
Proﬁt for the year 
 2,409.02 
   
2,046.13
 
 
13,450.85 
 
11,540.20
 
Items of other comprehensive income recognised 
 
directly in retained earnings 
 
Remeasurement of post-employment beneﬁt 
 
obligations (net of tax) 
(27.48) 
 
 
23.75
 
Less: Dividend paid 
(609.14) 
 
(522.12)
 
Closing Balance 
 12,814.23 
11,041.83
 
Total Retained earnings 
12,814.23 
  
11,041.83
 
(ii) 
Other reserves 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Capital reserve [Refer note (i) below] 
0.09
 
 
0.09 
 
Capital redemption reserve [Refer note (i) below] 
0.10 
 
0.10 
 
Securities premium [Refer note (i) below] 
3.20 
  
3.20
 
General reserve [Refer note (ii) below] 
1,085.08 
 
1,085.08 
 
Amalgamation reserve [Refer note (i) below] 
0.06 
 
0.06 
 
Total Other reserves 
1,088.53 
 
1,088.53 
 
Total Other equity 
13,902.76 
 
 
12,130.36 
 
Nature and purpose of Other reserves: 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
These reserves pertain to reserve arising on amalgamations in the past, which is required to be statutorily 
maintained and cannot be distributed to the shareholders.
 
(ii) This reserve represents amounts transferred from retained earnings in earlier years as per the requirements 
of the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956. The reserve is a free reserve. 
 
 
 
15 
Lease liabilities 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Non-current lease liabilities 
 
 
21.67 
21.02 
 
Current lease liabilities 
 
 
12.69 
11.34 
 
 
 
 
Total 
34.36 
 
32.36
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
183
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Movement in lease liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening balance 
 
 
32.36 
28.82 
 
Add: Additions during the year (Refer note 4)  
13.77 
 
13.71
 
Add: Interest expense on lease liabilities (Refer note 26) 
 
3.30 
2.98 
 
Less: Repayment of lease liabilities 
 
(15.07) 
 
(13.15)
 
Closing balance 
 
34.36 
32.36
16 
Trade payables 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
 
small enterprises 
 347.31 
  
473.09
 
  
 
 
 
347.31 
473.09 
 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 
(i)  Related parties (Refer note 32) 
 
 
652.40 
772.06 
 
(ii)  Others 
 
 2,753.58 
   
2,187.34
 
 
 
 
 
3,405.98 
  
 
2,959.40
 
 
 
 
Total  
3,753.29 
3,432.49
 
Aging of trade payables
 
 
 
 
 
As at December 31, 2023
 
 
Unbilled 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
 
Less than  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
 
Undisputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
 
 - 
 256.78 
216.31 
- 
- 
- 
473.09
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
834.32 
948.54 1,084.05 
29.10 
16.35 
46.46 2,958.82 
 
 
Disputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.58 
0.58 
 
 
 
 
Total 
834.32 1,205.32 1,300.36 
29.10 
16.35 
47.04 3,432.49 
 
 
  
 
 
 As at December 31, 2024
 
 
Unbilled 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
 
Less than  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
 
Undisputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
- 
266.01 
81.30 
- 
- 
- 
347.31  
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
1,324.29 1,286.41 
711.92 
16.84 
9.51 
56.43 3,405.40  
 
 
Disputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-   
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.58 
0.58 
 
 
 
 
Total 
1,324.29 1,552.42 
793.22 
16.84 
9.51 
57.01 3,753.29 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
184
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Details of dues to micro and small enterprises as deﬁned under the MSMED Act, 2006
 
The Company has certain dues to suppliers registered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006  
(‘MSMED Act’). The information as required to be disclosed under MSMED Act has been determined to the extent such 
parties have been identiﬁed on the basis of information available with the Company.
 
 
 
 
December 31, December 31,
 
 
 
 
 2024 
 2023
a) 
i) The principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier  
346.53 
  
471.77
 
 
as at the year end
 
ii) The interest due remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the year end thereon 
0.35 
  
0.54
b) 
The amount of interest paid under MSMED Act, 2006 along with the  
3.89 
 
7.15
 
amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
 
during the year 
 
c) 
The amount of payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
330.72 
 
656.22
 
during the year. 
d) 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making  
0.43 
 
0.78
 
payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
 
but without adding the interest speciﬁed under the MSMED Act, 2006 
 
e) 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid as at the year end 
0.78 
  
1.32
f) 
The amount of further interest due and payable even in the succeeding years,  
0.78 
 
1.32
 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small 
 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance of a deductible expenditure under 
 
Section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
 
17 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities-current 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Security deposits 
 
133.85 
 
119.74
 
Unclaimed dividend 
 
7.67 
 
7.44 
 
Payable for purchase of property, plant and equipment 
188.78 
 
257.46
 
Derivative liability 
 
0.86 
 -
 
Dealer incentive schemes 
 
447.43 
 
387.49
 
Payable to employees 
 
176.85 
  
152.89
 
  
 
 
Total  
955.44 
 
925.02 
18 (a) Provisions - Non-current  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at  
As at
 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023
 
Provision for employee beneﬁts (Refer note 31) 
  
444.00 
339.13 
 
 
97.87 
Provision for warranty [Refer note (ii) below] 
  
125.82
  
 
 
 
 
437.00  
 
Total 
569.82
     (b)  Provisions - Current
 
 
 
 
As at  
 
 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023
 
Provision for employee beneﬁts [Refer note (i) below] 
 
367.10 
349.60 
 
Provision for warranty [Refer note (ii) below] 
 
 
51.49 
47.96 
 
Provision for litigations / contingencies [Refer note (iii) below] 
139.93 
 
139.93 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
558.52 
537.49 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
185
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Notes : 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)  Includes provision for employee bonus and incentives. For details of gratuity, superannuation, 
compensated absences and long service award, refer note 31.
 
(ii)  The Company oﬀers warranty for its products. Provision for warranty is computed as a percentage of sales 
based on the past trends observed. The time value of money is considered to be not material and hence the 
provisions are not discounted. It is expected that this expenditure will be incurred over the contractual 
warranty period.
 
(iii) Provision is towards contingencies in respect of disputed claims against the Company, the quantum of 
outﬂow and timing of which is presently unascertainable. 
 
 
 
 
Movement in provisions
 
 
 
 
Provision for warranty
Provision for litigations / 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contingencies
 
As at January 1, 2023
 
Balance at the beginning 
 
 
  
127.72
139.93
 
Charged to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss
 
Provision recognised (net of reversal) 
 
   
76.16
- 
 
Amounts used during the year 
 
   
(58.05)
- 
 
As at December 31, 2023 
 
145.83
139.93  
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for warranty Provision for litigations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/ contingencies
 
As at January 1, 2024
 
Balance at the beginning 
 145.83 
139.93  
 
Charged to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss
 
Provision recognised (net of reversal) 
100.95 
-   
 
Amounts used during the year 
(69.47) 
-  
 
As at December 31, 2024 
177.31 
139.93  
 
19 
Other current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Statutory dues payable 
  
 
203.34 
207.67 
 
Advances from customers* 
 
2,454.38 
  
2,050.85
 
 
 
 
Total 
2,657.72 
 
2,258.52 
 
*Notes: 
 
i) During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company have recognised INR 394.85 million (December 
31, 2023: INR 667.26 million) as revenue from the Advances from customer outstanding as at the beginning 
of the year.
 
ii)  Advances from customers have increased in current year mainly on account of advance received during the 
year ended December 31, 2024 as per the contractual terms with the customers. 
 
 
 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
186
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 20 
Revenue from operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 
Sale of products 
  
24,835.65 
22,067.08 
 
Sale of services 
 
364.91 
249.91 
 
 
 
 
 
25,200.56 
 
 
22,316.99 
 
Other operating revenue
 
Sale of scrap 
 
 57.43 
59.97
 
Export incentives 
  
72.87 
 
95.42
 
 
 
 
 
130.30 
  
 
155.39
 
Revenue from operations 
 
25,330.86 
22,472.38 
 
Notes: 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Disaggregated revenue information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below presents disaggregated revenue from contracts with customers for the year ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. The Company believes that this disaggregation best depicts 
how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash ﬂows are aﬀected by industry, 
market and other economic factors.
 
Geographical location of customer 
 
Year ended  
Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Within India 
 
21,700.34 
19,317.91 
 
Outside India 
 
3,500.22 
2,999.08 
 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 
25,200.56 
22,316.99  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment  
 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Pumps 
 
 
20,972.33 
18,838.22 
 
Valves 
 
 
4,228.23 
3,478.77
 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 
25,200.56 
 
22,316.99
 
 
 
 
(ii) Reconciliation of revenue recognized with contract price : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Contract price 
 
25,831.45  
 22,876.33 
 
Adjustments for discounts, incentives,  
 
 
liquidated damages, price reductions 
 
(630.89) 
 (559.34)
 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 
25,200.56  
 22,316.99
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
187
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
21 
Other income 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Interest income 
 
 
 
 
 
   - Interest income from ﬁnancials assets measured at amortised cost 
172.24 
126.89 
 
   - Others  
 
67.23 
36.38 
 
Dividend from investment in associate 
 
47.41 
 
39.32
 
Sundry credit balances and provisions no longer required, written back 
- 
 
3.45
 
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment  
6.32 
2.21 
 
and intangible assets
 
Net gain on foreign currency transactions and translations 
63.62 
 
58.81
 
Fair value gain in derivative ﬁnancial instruments  
  
- 
2.72 
 
Miscellaneous income 
 
58.10 
 
92.91
 
 
 
 
Total 
414.92 
  
 
362.69
22 
Cost of materials consumed
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening stock of raw materials 
  
2,670.49 
 
1,671.97
 
Add: Purchases 
 
11,647.87 
11,687.49 
 
Less: Closing stock of raw materials 
 
2,284.32 
 
2,670.49
 
 
 
 
 
12,034.04 
10,688.97
23 
Purchases of stock-in -trade
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Purchases of stock-in-trade 
 
2,567.34 
 
1,907.05
 
 
 
 
Total 
2,567.34 
1,907.05 
24 
Change in inventories of ﬁnished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening inventory 
 
 
 
 
    
 
-  
Finished goods 
  
774.98 
 
867.69
    
 
-  
Work-in-progress 
 
2,719.16 
2,797.47
    
 
-  
Stock-in-trade 
 
184.83 
 
192.89
 
 
 
 
 
3,678.97 
  
3,858.05
 
Less: Closing inventory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  
Finished goods 
 
931.89 
774.98 
 
 
-  
Work-in-progress 
 
 
 
2,719.16  
2,949.68
 
 
-  
Stock-in-trade 
 
177.34 
184.83
 
 
 
 
 
4,058.91 
 
 
3,678.97 
 
Net change in inventories 
  
(379.94) 
179.08
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
188
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
25 
Employee beneﬁt expense 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Salaries and wages 
 
 2,715.01 
 
2,328.66
 
Contributions to provident and other funds 
 
185.72 
 
170.28
 
Staﬀ welfare expenses 
 
234.46 
 
197.89
 
 
 
 
Total 
3,135.19 
 
2,696.83
26 
Finance costs 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Interest and other ﬁnance charges 
 
 12.79 
41.33  
 
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Refer note 4)  
3.30 
2.98
 
Net interest expense on deﬁned beneﬁt  
 
11.08 
8.59 
 
obligations (Refer note 31)
 
 
 
 
Total 
27.17 
52.90 
27 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Depreciation of property, plant and  
 
 499.58 
 
470.38
 
equipment (Refer note 3)
 
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (Refer note 4)  
15.48 
 
13.54
 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Refer note 5)  
28.18 
12.86 
 
 
 
 
Total 
543.24 
 
496.78 
28 
Other expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Processing and machining charges 
 
987.07 
1,069.39 
 
Stores consumed 
 
418.93 
483.66 
 
Tools consumed 
 
54.26 
 
40.42
 
Water, power and fuel 
 
227.39 
246.06 
 
Sitework Charges 
 
382.02 
   
-
 
Rates and taxes 
 
15.18 
 
14.22
 
Insurance  
 
39.60 
 
37.88
 
Repairs and maintenance
 
 - Buildings 
 
40.43 
 
48.71
 
 - Machinery 
 
57.34 
60.14 
 
 - Others  
 
55.41 
59.34 
 
Travelling and conveyance 
 
171.92 
177.97 
 
Packing and forwarding charges 
 
508.06 
 
497.33
 
(Net of recoveries-INR 39.48 million; December 31, 2023-INR 43.65 million)
 
Royalty charges 
 
379.50 
 
326.50
 
Trademark Charges 
 
28.23 
 
12.92
 
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility [Refer note (i) below] 
46.20 
 
40.02
 
Fair value losses in derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
1.40 
   
-
 
Legal and professional fees 
 
84.34 
 
72.46
 
IT Services 
 
231.79 
 
190.60
 
Advertisements and catalogues 
 
122.26 
 
58.94
 
Miscellaneous expenses 
 
747.51 
628.13 
 
 
 
 
Total 
4,598.84 
4,064.69 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
189
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
(i)  
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility  
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
39.03  
Contribution to KSB Care Charitable Trust 
 
46.20
 
Expenditure towards other CSR activities 
 
- 
-
 
 
0.99  
Administrative overheads 
 
1.32
 
 
 
 
 
40.02 
Total 
47.52
 
Gross amount required to be spent 
 
 
40.02 
by the Company during the year 
 
47.43
 
 
 
 
 
40.02  
Total 
47.43
 
Amount spent during the year on : 
 
 In cash 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
a. Construction/ acquisition of any asset 
 
- 
 
- 
 
b. On purposes other than (a) above 
 
47.52 
40.02
 
 
 
 
Total 
47.52 
40.02
 
Nature of CSR activities - Education, Skill development, Healthcare, Destitute care, Environment, Sanitation.
(ii) 
Payment to auditors (included in legal and professional fees) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Year ended
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
December 31, 2024
 
As auditor 
 
 
 
 
Audit fee (Including limited review) 
 
3.10 
3.50 
 
In Other Capacities
 
Fees for other services 
 
0.80 
0.80 
 
 
0.53 
Reimbursement of expenses 
 
0.35
 
 
 
 
Total 
4.25 
4.83
29 
Earnings per equity share  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to the 
 
equity shareholders of the Company 
  
2,409.02 
2,046.13 
 
Weighted average number of equity shares 
 
 17,40,39,220 
 
17,40,39,220
 
Basic and Diluted Earnings per share (in `) 
 
13.84 
  
11.76
 
*The basic and diluted earnings per share is retrospectively adjusted for the share split in accordance with Ind 
AS 33 –Earnings per Share (Refer note 14).
30 
Contingencies and commitments
 
a) 
Contingent liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts 
125.30 
110.65  
 
 
Income tax 
 
549.13 
549.40
 
 
Goods and Services Tax, Excise and Service tax 
1,242.44 
1,207.27 
 
 
Others 
 
5.19 
 
4.90 
 
 
 
 
Total 
1,922.06 
 
1,872.22
 
b) 
Capital commitments 
 
 
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account (net of advances) and not 
provided for is INR 381.42 million (December 31, 2023: INR 405.66 million)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
190
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
31 
Employee beneﬁt obligations
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023 
 
Compensated absences (Refer note B) 
  
343.12 
297.58 
 
Non-current 
 
279.93 
242.19
 
Current 
 
 
63.19 
 
55.39
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long service award (Refer note C) 
 
35.07 
36.19
 
Non-current 
 
24.60 
12.41
 
Current 
 
 
10.47 
23.78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gratuity (Refer note D) 
 
177.60 
127.12 
 
Non-current 
 
129.40 
72.20 
 
Current 
 
 
48.20 
54.92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superannuation (Refer note E) 
 
20.07 
22.33 
 
Non-current 
 
10.07 
12.33 
 
Current 
 
 
10.00 
10.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Deﬁned contribution plan 
 
 
Contributions are made to provident fund at a ﬁxed percentage of employee's salary as per the regulations. The 
contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by the government. The obligation of the Company is 
limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. The expense 
recognised during the year towards contribution to provident fund is  119.71 million (December 31, 2023 -  107.46 
`
`
million). 
 
B 
Compensated absences 
 
 
The leave obligations cover the Company's liability for privilege leave and sick leave. The amount of provision made 
during the year is 
 86.98 million (December 31, 2023 -  32.61 million). The Company does not have an unconditional 
 `
`
right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on the past experience, the Company does not expect 
payment of the entire amount of accrued leaves or availment of the entire number of accrued leaves by employees within 
twelve months and accordingly, amounts have been classiﬁed as current and non-current. 
 
C Long service award 
 
 
The Company award all the employees who complete 25 years of service in the Company and the Workmen employees 
who complete 20 or more years of service in the Company but unable to complete 25 years due to superannuation. 
The amount of provision made during the year is  5.83 million (December 31, 2023 -  9.22 million). 
`
`
 
 
Signiﬁcant estimates 
 
 
The signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions were as follows : 
 
 
  
As at December 31, 2024  
 
 
As at December 31, 2023 
 
 
Discount rate 
6.95% 
7.40%
 
 
Gold Inﬂation rate 
8.00% 
8.00%
 
 
Attrition rate 
8.00% 
7.00%
 
D Gratuity 
 
 
The Company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on 
retirement/termination is the employee's last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days to one 
month's salary multiplied for the number of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan. 
 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
191
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
(I) The amounts recognised in balance sheet and movements in the net beneﬁt obligation over the year are as follows :  
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets 
 
 
January 1, 2023 
940.17 
(839.80) 
100.37 
 
 
Current service cost 
 
59.91 
- 
59.91
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
68.58 
(61.26) 
7.32 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
128.49 
(61.26) 
67.23
 
 
Return on plan assets 
  
- 
- 
- 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
(29.41) 
- 
(29.41)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
(5.16) 
- 
(5.16)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
0.81 
 
0.81
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
(33.76) 
- 
(33.76)
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
(6.72) 
(6.72)
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(62.81) 
62.81 
-   
 
 
December 31, 2023 
972.09 
(844.97) 
127.12 
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets  
 
 
January 1, 2024 
972.09 
(844.97) 
127.12 
 
 
Current service cost 
63.52 
- 
63.52 
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
72.09 
(62.66) 
9.43 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
135.61 
(62.66) 
72.95 
 
 
Return on plan assets 
- 
19.52 
19.52 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
(30.70) 
- 
(30.70)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
50.22 
- 
50.22 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
(6.60) 
- 
(6.60)
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
12.92 
19.52 
32.44 
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
(54.91) 
(54.91)
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(82.49) 
82.49 
-   
 
 
December 31, 2024 
1,038.13 
(860.53) 
177.60  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(II) The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows: 
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Present value of funded obligation 
1,038.13 
972.09 
 
 
Fair value of plan assets 
(860.53) 
(844.97)
 
 
Deﬁcit 
177.60 
127.12
 
(III) 
Signiﬁcant estimates 
 
 
 
The signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions were as follows : 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023 
 
 
Discount rate 
6.95% 
7.40%
 
 
Salary growth rate 
8.00% 
7.50%
 
 
Attrition rate 
8.00% 
7.00%
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
192
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
(IV) 
Sensitivity of actuarial assumptions 
 
 
 
The sensitivity of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
 
 
                                                                                                        Impact on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
 
 
                                                                                                       [Increase / (Decrease)]
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Discount rate
 
 
1 % increase 
(45.60) 
(46.77)
 
 
1 % decrease 
50.48 
51.78 
 
 
Salary growth rate
 
 
1 % increase 
52.77 
54.44
 
 
1 % decrease 
(49.88) 
(51.24)
 
 
Attrition rate
 
 
1 % increase 
(4.01) 
(2.01)
 
 
1 % decrease 
5.59 
2.67 
 
The above sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a 
change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to 
the assumption, the same method is used to calculate the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet. The methods 
and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous year. 
 
 
 
Projected beneﬁts payable from the fund in future years from the date of reporting:
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023 
 
 
Upto 1 year 
  
206.83 
 
164.14
 
 
Between 2 to 5 years 
  
506.06 
445.58 
 
 
Between 6 to 10 years 
 
435.53 
 
483.11
 
 
More than 10 years 
 
375.28 
425.56 
 
 
 
Total 
 1,523.70 
 
1,518.39
 
The weighted average duration of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is 5 years. (December 31, 2023: 5 years) 
 
 
 
(V) 
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Funds managed by insurer 
100% 
100%
 
 
The Company expects to contribute INR 48.20 million towards plan assets in the next 12 months.
E 
Superannuation
 
The Company provides for superannuation for employees qualifying speciﬁed eligibility criteria. The amount of 
superannuation payable on retirement/termination is computed on the basis of employee's category and 
number of years of service. The superannuation plan is a funded plan.
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
193
Notes forming part of the financial statements (Contd.)  
(I) 
The amounts recognised in balance sheet and movements in the net beneﬁt obligation over the year are as follows :  
 
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets 
 
 
January 1, 2023 
28.72 
(11.26) 
17.46 
 
 
Current service cost 
1.57 
- 
1.57 
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
2.09 
(0.82) 
1.27 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
3.66 
(0.82) 
2.84
 
 
Return on plan assets 
 
- 
2.46 
2.46 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
(1.50) 
- 
(1.50)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
(0.12) 
- 
(0.12)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
1.19 
- 
1.19
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
(0.43) 
2.46 
2.03
 
 
Employer contributions 
 
 
 
-
- 
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(3.63) 
3.63 
 
- 
 
 
December 31, 2023 
28.32 
(5.99) 
22.33 
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets  
 
 
January 1, 2024 
28.32 
(5.99) 
22.33  
 
 
Current service cost 
1.80 
- 
1.80 
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
2.10 
(0.45) 
1.65 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
 3.90 
(0.45) 
3.45 
 
 
Return on plan assets 
- 
- 
-
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
3.46 
- 
3.46
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
0.60 
- 
0.60 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
0.23 
- 
0.23
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
4.29 
- 
4.29 
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
(10.00) 
(10.00)
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(4.63) 
4.63 
-   
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 31.88 
(11.81) 
20.07  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows: 
 
(II) 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Present value of funded obligation 
31.88 
 
28.32
 
 
Fair value of plan assets 
(11.81) 
(5.99)
 
 
Deﬁcit 
20.07 
22.33
 
(III) 
Signiﬁcant estimates 
 
 
 
The signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions were as follows : 
 
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023 
 
 
Discount rate 
6.95% 
7.40%
 
 
Attrition rate 
8.00% 
7.00%
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
194
 
(IV) 
Sensitivity of actuarial assumptions 
 
 
 
The sensitivity of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
 
 
                                                                                                        Impact on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
 
 
                                                                                                                    [Increase / (Decrease)]
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Discount rate
 
 
1 % increase 
 (1.26) 
(1.08)
 
 
1 % decrease 
 1.37 
1.17 
 
 
Attrition rate
 
 
1 % increase 
 0.19 
0.21
 
 
1 % decrease 
(0.26) 
(0.27)
 
The above sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a 
change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to 
the assumption, the same method is used to calculate the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet. The methods 
and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous year. 
 
 
 
Projected beneﬁts payable from the fund in future years from the date of reporting:
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023 
 
 
Upto 1 year 
  
8.75 
11.08 
 
 
Between 2 to 5 years 
  
18.27 
 
11.33
 
 
Between 6 to 10 years 
 
11.34 
12.22 
 
 
More than 10 years 
 
6.02 
5.34
 
 
 
Total 
44.38 
39.97 
 
The weighted average duration of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is 4 years. (December 31, 2022: 4 years) 
 
 
 
(V) 
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Funds managed by insurer 
100% 
100%
 
 
The Company expects to contribute INR 10 million towards plan assets in the next 12 months.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk exposure for the above plans 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most signiﬁcant of 
which are detailed below: 
 
 
 
 
(i)  
Asset-liability mismatch risk 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk which arises if there is a mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities. In managing 
the plan assets, Board of Trustees reviews and manages these risks associated with the funded plan. Each 
year, the Board of Trustees reviews the level of funding in the gratuity plan. Such a review includes asset - 
liability matching strategy and investment risk management policy (which includes contributing to plans 
that invest in risk averse markets).  
 
 
 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
195
 
a. 
Ultimate Parent Entity / Ultimate Controlling Party 
 
 
 
 
KSB Stiftung and Kuborth Stiftungs GmbH 
 
 
 
 
b. 
Parent Entities 
 
 
 
 
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. (Direct parent)  
 
 
 
 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA (previously KSB AG) (next most senior parent that produces Consolidated 
Financials for public use) 
 
 
 
 
c. 
Subsidiary 
 
 
 
 
 
Pofran Sales and Agency Limited 
 
 
 
 
d. 
Associate 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
e. 
Other Related Parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year:  
 
 
 
 
Fellow Subsidiaries: 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
KSB S.A.S France  
 
 
 
 
2 
KSB Inc., USA 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
KSB Pumps and Valves Pty Ltd South Africa 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
KSB Australia Pty Limited  
 
 
 
 
5 
KSB Chile S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
KSB Limited, Hongkong 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
KSB Pumps Co.Ltd., Thailand 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
P.T. KSB., Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
KSB Taiwan Co. Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
10 KSB Korea Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
11 KSB de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
 
 
 
 
 
12 REEL s.r.l. 
 
 
 
 
 
13 KSB Manufacturing B.V. (Earlier know as DP Industries B.V., Netherland)  
 
 
 
 
14 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
(ii)  
Asset volatility 
 
 
 
 
 
All plan assets are maintained in a trust fund managed by a public sector insurer i.e., LIC of India. LIC has 
a sovereign guarantee and has been providing consistent and competitive returns over the years. The 
Company has opted for a traditional fund wherein all assets are invested primarily in risk averse markets. 
The Company has no control over the management of funds but this option provides a high level of safety 
for the total corpus. A single account is maintained for both the investment and claim settlement and 
hence, 100% liquidity is ensured. 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  
Discount rate risk 
 
 
 
 
 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated using discount rate based on Government 
bonds. The decrease in the bond yield will increase the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation, however the same will 
be partially oﬀset by an increase in value of plan assets. 
 
 
 
 
(iv)  
Future salary escalation risk 
 
 
 
 
 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in salary of the plan participants will increase the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligation.
32 
Disclosure pursuant to Ind AS 24 'Related party transactions':
 
A 
Name of the related parties and nature of relationship 
 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
196
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
 
15 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy 
 
 
 
 
 
16 KSB Panama S.A.  
 
 
 
 
17 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., China  
 
 
 
 
18 KSB Finland Oy  
 
 
 
 
19 KSB ITUR SPAIN SA 
 
 
 
 
 
20 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., India  
 
 
 
 
21 GIW Industries Inc., USA  
 
 
 
 
22 KSB Middle East FZE, Dubai 
 
 
 
 
 
23 KSB Service LLC, UAE 
 
 
 
 
 
24 KSB Polska Sp. z o.o, Poland 
 
 
 
 
 
25 KSB Singapore (Asia Paciﬁc) PTE Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
26 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd. 
 
 
 
 
 
27 KSB Service Egypt LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
28 KSB Sverige AB  
 
 
 
 
29 KSB Service GmbH, Germany 
 
 
 
 
 
30 KSB New Zealand Limited  
 
 
 
 
31 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear 
 
 
 
 
 
32 KSB Vietnam Company Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
33 KSB Philippines  
 
 
 
 
34 KSB Colombia SAS 
 
 
 
 
 
35 KSB-Pompa, Armatür Sanayi 
 
 
 
 
 
36 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d. 
 
 
 
 
 
37 PT. KSB Sales Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 
38 KSB Zambia Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
39 KSB Pumps and Valves Limited, Kenya 
 
 
 
 
 
40 KSB Peru S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
41 GIW Industries, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
42 KSB Pumps and Valves Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
43 KSB Cerpadla a  
 
 
 
 
44 KSB Argentina S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
45 KSB Pumps Company Ltd.  
 
 
 
 
46 KSB Pumps Inc.  
 
 
 
 
47 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co.,Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
48 KSB Industries BV 
 
 
 
 
 
49 SISTO Armaturen S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
50 KSB BRASIL LTDA. 
 
 
 
 
 
51 KSB Ltd. Japan  
 
 
 
 
52 OOO KSB Russia 
 
 
 
 
53 KSB Pompes Et Robinetteries S.A.R.L 
 
 
 
 
 
54 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH 
 
 
 
 
 
55 KSB Belgium S.A. 
 
 
 
 
56 KSB (Schweiz) AG 
 
 
 
32   A Name of the related parties and nature of relationship (continued): 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
197
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
 
57 KSB-PUMPY+ARMATURY s.r.o., koncern 
 
 
 
 
 
58 KSB Algérie Eurl  
 
 
 
 
59 KSB Pumpy Armatury s.r.o.,koncern  
 
 
 
 
60 KSB Pompa Armatur Sanayi ve Ticaret AS Turkey 
 
 
 
 
 
61 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co.Ltd 
 
 
 
 
 
62 KSB Bombas e Valvulas,SA  
 
 
 
 
63 Kagema Industrieausrestungen GmbH 
 
 
 
 
f. 
Key Management Personnel: 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Mr. Rajeev Jain (Managing Director) 
 
 
 
 
2 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Mr. D. N. Damania (Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Mr. Pradip Shah (Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24)  
 
 
 
 
5 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
 
 
 
 
6 
Mr. V. K. Vishwanathan 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
Ms. Sharmila Roychowdhury 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
Mr. Vishal Kampani (Appointed w.e.f. 1st Oct 24) 
 
 
 
 
 
10 Mr. Ulhas Yargop (Appointed w.e.f. 1st Oct 24) 
 
 
 
 
g. 
Individuals having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the enterprise 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
 
 
 
 
h. 
Relatives of individuals having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the enterprise  
 
 
 
 
1 
Mrs. Gyan M Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Vikram Swarup Family Trust 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Mr. Vikram Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Mrs. Bindu Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Mrs. Parul Swarup 
 
 
 
 
i. 
Enterprises over which individuals having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the reporting enterprise exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence   
 
 
 
 
1 
The Industrial & Prudential Investment Co. Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Paharpur Cooling Towers Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
KSB Care Charitable Trust  
 
 
 
 
4 
TKIL Industries Pvt Ltd (Formerly known as Thyssenkrupp Industries India Private Limited) 
(w.e.f. 8th May 24) 
 
 
 
 
j. 
Post employment beneﬁt Trusts  
 
 
 
 
1 
KSB Pumps Employee's Gratuity Trust 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Grade-O-Castings Employee's Gratuity Trust  
 
 
 
 
3 
KSB Pumps (Core Employee's) Superannuation Trust 
 
 
 
32   A Name of the related parties and nature of relationship (continued): 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
198
32 B. Transactions with related parties: 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Nature of transactions
Parent
Entities
Associate 
Company
Fellow
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the reporting 
enterprise
Relatives of 
individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the enterprise
Enterprises over which 
individuals having 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over the reporting 
enterprise exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence
Post 
employment 
beneﬁt Trusts
Total
 
Purchase of goods 
525.93 
- 
107.41 
208.13 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
841.47 
 
(753.75) 
( - ) (111.85) 
(253.74) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(1,119.34)
Purchase of Property,  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
plant and equipment 
(0.16) 
( - ) 
(1.58) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(0.53) 
( - ) 
(2.27)
Sale of goods 
286.96 
- 
15.06 
1,845.83 
- 
- 
- 
171.26 
- 
2,319.11 
 
(386.59) 
( - ) 
(6.25) (1,733.97) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(17.18) 
( - ) 
(2,143.99)
Sale of services 
3.04 
- 
5.10 
23.27 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
31.41 
 
(2.90) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(14.40) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(17.30)
Site expenses 
- 
- 
- 
9.57 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
9.57 
 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(2.95) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(2.95)
Commission income 
2.53 
- 
- 
8.96 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
11.49 
 
(18.16) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(1.65) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(19.81)
Commission expenses 
- 
- 
- 
12.02 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
12.02 
 
- 
- 
- 
(1.07) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(1.07)
Dividend income 
- 
- 
47.41 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
47.41 
 
- 
- 
(39.32) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(39.32)
Liquidated damages 
- 
- 
- 
1.35 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.35 
 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(0.32) 
- 
(0.32)
Liquidated damages income 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-   
 
 (6.80) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(6.80)
Charges for technical  / 
214.89 
- 
- 
7.71 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
222.60 
professional services 
(192.60) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(7.36) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(199.96)
Royalty charges 
370.21 
- 
- 
9.29 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
379.50 
 
 (311.07) 
- 
- 
(13.20) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(324.27)
Trademark fees 
28.23 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
28.23 
 
 (12.92) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(12.92)
Warranty charges 
1.79 
- 
- 
1.83 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3.62 
 
 (0.81) 
- 
- 
(4.51) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(5.32)
Recovery of expenses 
7.70 
- 
5.37 
4.85 
- 
- 
- 
0.01 
- 
17.93 
 
(16.38) 
- 
(13.83) 
(2.44) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(32.65)
Reimbursement  
3.73 
- 
0.03 
3.76 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
7.52 
of expenses 
(0.76) 
- 
- 
(2.08) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(2.84)
Subsidiary
Company
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
199
32 B. Transactions with related parties (Contd.): 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Nature of transactions
Parent
Entities
Associate 
Company
Fellow
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the reporting 
enterprise
Relatives of 
individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the enterprise
Enterprises over which 
individuals having 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over the reporting 
enterprise exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence
Post 
employment 
beneﬁt Trusts
Total
 
LD Charges  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.54 
- 
0.54 
written back 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - )  
Remuneration 
- 
- 
- 
- 
61.84 
- 
- 
- 
- 
61.84 
 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(56.50) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(56.50)
Sitting fees paid 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.74 
0.40 
- 
- 
- 
2.14 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(1.80) 
(0.38) 
- 
- 
- 
(2.18)
Dividend paid 
246.94 
- 
- 
- 
0.09 
0.60 
2.09 
175.53 
- 
425.25 
 
(211.66) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(0.08) 
(0.51) 
(1.79) 
(134.25) 
( - ) 
(348.29)
Commission to  
- 
- 
- 
- 
10.80 
3.60 
- 
- 
- 
14.40 
Directors 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(9.60) 
(3.19) 
- 
- 
- 
(12.79)
Expenditure on Corporate  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
46.20 
- 
46.20 
Social Responsibility 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(39.03) 
- 
(39.03)
Contribution to post  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
64.92 
64.92 
employment beneﬁts 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(6.72) 
(6.72)
Outstanding balances 
arising from sales/purchases 
of goods and services
Trade receivables  
81.11 
- 
18.52 
607.75 
- 
- 
- 
88.01 
- 
795.39 
(Refer note 7) 
(80.37) 
- 
- 
(481.47) 
- 
- 
- 
(7.72) 
- 
(569.56)
Trade payables  
551.73 
- 
6.55 
94.12 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
652.40 
(Refer note 16) 
(665.90) 
( - ) 
(8.33) 
(97.83) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(772.06)
Advances from  
45.79 
- 
- 
68.64 
- 
- 
- 
0.75 
- 
115.18 
related parties  
(41.81) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(39.29) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(4.00) 
( - ) 
(85.10)
(Refer note 19) 
Advances to related parties 
4.44 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4.44 
(Refer note 12) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
-   
Subsidiary
Company
Notes :  
1. Previous year's ﬁgures are shown in brackets. 
2. The Company enters into a variety of transactions with the related parties on arm’s length basis.  
Terms and conditions for outstanding balances 
3. All outstanding balances are unsecured and payable in cash. 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
200
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
32 C.  Transactions with related parties: 
 
I 
Key management personnel compensation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Particulars  
 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Short term employee beneﬁts 
 55.46  
 
 52.47
 
 
Post-employment beneﬁts 
6.38  
 
 4.03
 
 
 
 
Total 
61.84  
 56.50
 
II 
Material transactions with related parties 
 
 
Sr.  
Nature of transactions 
Name of the party 
Year ended  
Year ended 
 
 
No.  
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
1 
Purchase of goods 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
525.93 
753.75 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
107.41 
 
111.85
 
 
 
 
KSB BV 
85.89 
97.89 
 
 
2 
Purchase of Property, 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
- 
1.58 
 
 
 
plant and equipment 
Paharpur Cooling  
- 
  
0.53
 
 
 
 
Towers Limited
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Sale of goods 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
 286.96 
386.59 
 
 
 
 
KSB Middle East FZE,  
482.09 
326.33 
 
 
 
 
Dubai
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Sale of services 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
3.04 
 
2.90
 
 
 
 
KSB Tech Private Limited 
20.51 
 
14.40
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
5.10 
   
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Site expenses 
KSB Pumps and Valves  
 1.62  
  
-  
 
 
 
 
Pty Ltd South Africa 
 
 
 
 
PT KSB INDONESIA 
 1.08  
   
 -
 
 
 
 
KSB Brasil LTDA. 
 6.62  
 -   
 
 
 
 
KSB Algérie Eurl 
 -    
 0.61 
 
 
 
 
KSB Malaysia Pumps &  
 0.18  
 1.94 
 
 
 
 
Valves Sdn. Bhd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
Commission income 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
2.53 
18.16 
 
 
 
 
KSB S.A.S, France 
3.92 
 
1.65
 
 
 
 
KSB Shanghai Pump Co.  
2.36 
-   
 
 
 
 
Ltd., China
 
 
 
 
KSB Sverige AB 
1.22 
 
-  
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
Commission expenses 
KSB Polska Sp. z o.o. [PL] 
6.13 
 
-  
 
 
 
 
KSB Italia S.p.A. 
5.65 
 
-  
 
 
 
 
KSB Pompa Armatur  
- 
0.99 
 
 
 
 
Sanayi ve Ticaret
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
Trademark fees 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
28.23 
12.92 
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
201
 
 
9 
Dividend income 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
47.41 
 
39.32
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Liquidated damages 
Paharpur Cooling  
- 
0.32 
 
 
 
 
Towers Limited
 
 
 
 
KSB Shanghai Pump Co.  
0.99 
   
-
 
 
 
 
Ltd., China
 
 
 
 
KSB Valves (Changzhou)  
0.36 
   
-
 
 
 
 
Co.,Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
Liquidated damages  
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
- 
 
6.80
 
 
 
income
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
Charges for technical  / 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
214.89 
 
192.60
 
 
 
professional services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
Royalty charges 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
370.21 
311.07 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
Warranty charges 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
1.79 
0.81 
 
 
 
 
KSB Vietnam Company Ltd. 
- 
 
1.80
 
 
 
 
KSB Pumps Co. Ltd,  
0.07 
 
1.37
 
 
 
 
Thailand
 
 
 
 
KSB Pumps and Valves Pty  
0.64 
0.72 
 
 
 
 
Ltd South Africa 
 
 
 
 
KSB Singapore  
0.72 
 
0.04
 
 
 
 
(Asia Paciﬁc) PTE Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
Recovery of expenses 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
5.37 
 
13.83
 
 
 
 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
7.70 
 
16.38
 
 
 
 
KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., India 
2.57 
 
-  
 
 
 
 
KSB S.A.S France 
1.97 
  
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
Reimbursement  
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
3.73 
0.76 
 
 
 
of expenses 
KSB Valves (Changzhou)  
0.60 
0.71 
 
 
 
 
Co.,Ltd.
 
 
 
 
KSB Service GmbH,  
0.87 
 
1.14
 
 
 
 
Germany
 
 
 
 
KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., India 
1.29 
  
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
Expenses write oﬀ 
TKIL Industries Private 
0.03 
   
-
 
 
 
 
 Limited( w.e.f. 8th May 24)
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
LD Charges written  
TKIL Industries Private  
0.54 
 
-  
 
 
 
back 
Limited( w.e.f. 8th May 24)
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
Remuneration 
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
61.84 
56.50 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
32 C.  Transactions with related parties:
 
II 
Material transactions with related parties (continued) 
 
Sr.  
Nature of transactions 
Name of the party 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
No.  
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
202
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
33 
Segment reporting
 
As per Ind AS 108 Operating Segments, when a ﬁnancial report contains both consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
and separate ﬁnancial statements for the parent, segment information needs to be presented only in case of 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Accordingly, segment information has been provided only in the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements. 
 
 
 
 
32 C.  Transactions with related parties:
 
II 
Material transactions with related parties (continued) 
 
 
 
20 
Sitting fees paid 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
0.40 
0.38 
 
 
 
 
Mr. D. N. Damania  
0.30 
 
0.38
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Pradip Shah   
0.29 
0.37 
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Mr. V. K. Vishwanathan 
0.31 
 
0.28
 
 
 
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
0.33 
 
0.33
 
 
 
 
Ms. Sharmila Roy  
0.30 
 
0.28
 
 
 
 
Chowdhury
 
 
 
 
Mr. Vishal Kampani  
0.07 
   
-
 
 
 
 
(Appointed w.e.f. 1st Oct 24)
 
 
 
 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
0.16 
0.16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
Dividend paid 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. 
246.94 
 
211.66
 
 
 
 
The Industrial & Prudential  
131.25 
 
112.50
 
 
 
 
Investment Co. Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
Commission to Directors Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
3.60 
3.19 
 
 
 
 
Mr. D. N. Damania  
1.80 
1.60 
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Pradip Shah   
1.80 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
 1.80  
 
 1.60
 
 
 
 
Mr. V. K. Vishwanathan 
 1.80  
 
 1.60
 
 
 
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
 1.80  
 
 1.60
 
 
 
 
Ms. Sharmila  
 1.80  
 1.60 
 
 
 
 
Roychowdhury 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
Expenditure on  
KSB Care Charitable Trust 
46.20 
 
39.03
 
 
 
Corporate Social 
 
 
 
Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
Contribution to post 
KSB Pumps Employee's  
54.81 
 
6.72
 
 
 
 employment beneﬁts 
Gratuity Trust 
 
 
 
 
KSB Pumps  
10.00 
  
- 
 
 
 
 
(Core Employee's) 
 
 
 
 
Superannuation Trust 
 
 
 
Note : 
 
 
  1.  “Material transactions with related parties” denote entities accounting for 10% or more of the 
aggregate for that category of balance during respective period.
Sr.  
Nature of transactions 
Name of the party 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
No.  
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
203
34 
Fair value measurements 
 
 
 
 
 
Except derivative instruments, all ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. 
Derivative instruments are classiﬁed as fair value through proﬁt or loss. The fair value is determined using 
forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The instruments fall under level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as 
per Ind AS 113 Fair Value Measurements. Level 2 fair value ﬁnancial instruments are those which are not traded 
in an active market, which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity 
speciﬁc estimates. Signiﬁcant inputs required to measure a level 2 fair value are observable. The fair value of all 
the instruments measured at amortised cost is not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from the carrying value of such 
instruments. 
 
 
 
 
35 
Financial risk management 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's activities exposes it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. In order to minimise any adverse 
eﬀects on the ﬁnancial performance of the Company, derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as foreign exchange 
forward contracts are taken. This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the 
entity manages the risk.
 
The Company's risk management is carried out by the Company's treasury department under policies approved 
by the board of directors. The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies 
covering speciﬁc areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments and non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
(A) 
Credit risk
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
ﬁnancing activities, including deposits with banks and other ﬁnancial instruments. For banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions, only high rated banks/ ﬁnancial institutions are accepted. The balances with banks, loans given to 
employees, security deposits are subject to low credit risk and the risk of default is negligible or nil.  The 
Company has recognized provision based on assumptions about risk of default, expected loss rates and speciﬁc 
identiﬁcation method.
I 
Trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit risk arises from the possibility that customer will not be able to settle their obligations as and when agreed. 
To manage this, the Company periodically assesses the ﬁnancial reliability of customers, taking into account the 
ﬁnancial condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts, ageing of accounts receivable and 
forward looking information. Individual credit limits are set accordingly. The Company has recognized the 
provision based on assumptions about risk of default, expected loss rates based on payment proﬁle and historic 
credit losses experienced. 
 
Expected credit loss for trade receivables under simpliﬁed approach 
 
Trade receivables 
 
Year ended December 31, 2023
 
 
 
 Weighted 
Gross  
Allowance 
Net 
Credit
 
 
 
average loss rate 
 
 
 
impaired 
 
Outstanding for following  
0% 
1,812.36 
- 
1,812.36 
No
 
periods from the due date
  
Not due 
 
Less than 6 months 
0% 
 2,885.50 
(1.81) 
2,883.69  
No
 
6 months - 1 year  
4% 
131.20  
 (4.69) 
126.51  
No
 
1-2 years 
46%  
120.64 
 (56.09) 
64.55  
No
 
2-3 years  
58% 
44.01 
 (25.33) 
18.68 
No
 
More than 3 years 
55%  
118.53  
 (64.79) 
53.74 
No
 
 
Total 
 
 
5,112.24 
(152.71) 
4,959.53 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
204
 
Trade receivables 
 Year ended December 31, 2024
 
Gross  
Allowance 
Net
 
 
 Weighted 
 
Credit
 
 
 
average loss rate 
 
 
 
impaired 
 
 
0% 
1,613.36 
- 
1,613.36 
No 
Outstanding for following 
 
periods from the due date
  
Not due 
 
Less than 6 months 
0% 
4,128.81 
(1.10) 
4,127.71 
No
 
6 months - 1 year  
0% 
425.27 
(1.00) 
424.27 
No
 
1-2 years 
23% 
358.85 
(83.47) 
275.38 
No 
 
2-3 years  
60% 
75.53 
(45.03) 
30.50 
No
 
More than 3 years 
64% 
140.55 
(89.90) 
50.65 
No
 
 
Total 
 
6,742.37 
(220.50) 
6,521.87  
 
 
Movement of provision for loss allowance : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for 
 
 
 
 
Loss allowance  
  
 
 
Provision as at January 1, 2023 
 
 
209.00 
 
 
Change during the year 
 
 
(56.29)
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2023 
 
 
152.71 
 
 
Change during the year 
 
67.79  
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2024 
 
220.50  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II 
Other ﬁnancial assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company’s exposure to investments, loans, security deposits and other ﬁnancial assets are considered to 
be low risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss allowance as at year end reconciles to the opening loss allowance as follows: 
 
 
Movement of provision for loss allowance : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for 
 
 
 
 
Loss allowance  
  
 
 
Provision as at January 1, 2023 
 
 
5.30 
 
 
Change during the year 
 
   
- 
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2023 
 
  
5.30
 
 
Change during the year 
 
-    
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2024 
 
5.30
(B) 
Liquidity risk 
 
 
 
 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining suﬃcient cash and marketable securities and the 
availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due 
and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, the Company's treasury 
maintains ﬂexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. 
 
 
 
The table below analyses the Company's ﬁnancial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their 
contractual maturities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities based on undiscounted cash ﬂows:
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
 
Upto 1 year  
Above 1 year 
Upto 1 year  Above 1 year
 
 
Trade payables 
 3,753.29 
- 
 
3,432.49 
-
 
 
Lease liabilities 
 
13.89 
26.86 
12.42 
26.73 
 
 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
  
 
955.44 
- 
925.02 
-  
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
205
(C) 
Market risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I)  Foreign currency risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is engaged in international trade and  thereby exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from 
foreign currency transactions, primarily with respect to the EUR and USD. Foreign exchange risk arises from 
future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the 
Company's functional currency (INR). The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its 
exposure in foreign currency risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i) Foreign currency risk exposure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period expressed in INR 
million, are as follows :- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
EUR 
USD AUD SGD GBP BDT 
EUR 
USD AUD GBP BDT
 
Financial assets 
 
Trade receivables 
217.37 
895.08 
- 
- 0.24 0.25  
 
  
153.94   653.68  
 -    
 -    0.20 
 
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- In current accounts 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 2.17 
 
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    0.76 
 
- In EEFC accounts 
107.25 
205.84 
- 
- 
- 
- 
    
 
54.31   228.97  
 -    
 -    
 -
 
Derivative assets - Foreign  
(61.44) (101.37) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
    
   
-  (37.49) 
 -    
 -    
 -
 
exchange forward contracts
 
(Sell Foreign Currency) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net exposure to foreign  
263.18 
999.55 
- 
- 0.24 2.42 
 
 
208.25   845.16  
 -    
 -    0.96 
 
currency risk (assets) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade payables 
 250.94 
112.29 0.11 0.06 0.99 0.59 
  
  
351.94   110.11   0.11   1.10   1.36
 
Derivative liabilities - Foreign  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
exchange forward contracts 
 
(Buy Foreign Currency) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net exposure to foreign 
 250.94 
112.29 0.11 0.06 0.99 0.59 
  
  
351.94   110.11   0.11   1.10   1.36
 
 currency risk (liabilities) 
 
ii) 
Sensitivity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sensitivity of proﬁt and loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency 
denominated ﬁnancials instruments: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact on proﬁt before tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
EUR sensitivity
 
INR/EUR - Increase by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
0.61 
(7.18) 
 
 
7.18  
INR/EUR - Decrease by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
(0.61)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USD sensitivity
 
INR/USD - Increase by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
44.36 
36.75  
 
 
(36.75) 
INR/USD - Decrease by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
(44.36)
 
* Holding all other variables constant 
 
 
 
 
 
II) 
Interest rate risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's main interest rate risk arises from short term borrowings and deposits taken / placed over 
a period of time on frequent basis thereby exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Company's 
policy is to have ﬁxed interest rate at the time of deal execution. 
 
 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
206
36 
Capital management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a)  
Risk management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard their ability to continue as a going 
concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders, 
and maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. For the purpose of the Company's 
capital management, capital includes issued equity capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the 
equity holders of the parent. The primary objective of the Company's capital management is to maximise 
the shareholders value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of 
changes in economic conditions. The Company is debt-free and has net cash and bank balance as at years 
ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
 
 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023.
 
 
Net debt reconciliation
 
 
This section sets out an analysis of net debt and the movements in net debt for each of the periods 
presented.  
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended
Year ended 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
 
December 31, 2024
 
 
Cash and bank balance
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents [Refer note 8 (a)] 
 
958.87 
1,195.13  
 
 
Other bank balance [Refer note 8 (b)] 
 
 
 2,268.00 
1,542.96 
 
 
Borrowings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current borrowings 
 
 
- 
-  
 
 
Net cash and bank balance 
 
 
3,226.87 
2,738.09 
 
 
The amount of net cash and bank balance considering the amount of lease liability of  34.36 million 
`
(December 31, 2023:  32.36 million) is  3,192.51 million (December 31, 2023:  2,705.73 million)
`
`
`
 
 
Net debt reconciliation - Current borrowings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended
Year ended 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
 
December 31, 2024
 
 
Nebt debt at the beginning of the year 
 
-  
   
- 
 
 
Net cashﬂows [Inﬂow/(Outﬂow)] 
 
-  
    
 -
 
 
Interest on borrowings 
 
6.97 
 
27.31 
 
 
Interest paid on borrowings 
 
(6.97) 
 
 
(27.31)
 
 
Nebt debt at the end of the year 
 
-  
   
 
-
 
b)  
Dividends
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
(i) Equity shares
 
 
 
Final dividend paid for the year ended  
   609.14 
 
522.12 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023 of  3.50* 
`
 
 
 
(December 31, 2022 of  3.00*) 
`
 
 
 
per fully paid share 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Dividends not recognised at the end of 
 
 
 
the reporting period
 
 
 
The directors have recommended the payment of 
  696.16 
609.14
 
 
 
a ﬁnal dividend of  4.00 per fully paid equity 
 `
 
 
 
share (December 31, 2023 -  3.50*). This 
`
 
 
 
proposed dividend is subject to the approval of 
 
 
 
shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting. 
 
 
 
*Dividend per equity share disclosed in above note represents dividends declared  previously, 
retrospectively adjusted for the share split (Refer note 14).
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
207
37 
With eﬀect from August 5, 2022, the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs (MCA) has amended the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 as per which backup of books of accounts and other books and papers maintained in 
electronic mode is required to be kept on servers physically located in India on a daily basis.  The Company has a 
process in place to take backup on a daily basis. During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company has 
taken the backup of its ERP system used for maintaining books of accounts. However, due to a technical issue, 
daily backup of certain working ﬁles and papers maintained in electronic mode has not been maintained on 
certain occasions on servers physically located in India. 
38 
The Company has complied with the requirements of The Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 with respect to the 
usage of accounting software with a feature of recording audit trail except for matters listed below
 
a) Feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility has operated throughout the year for all transactions in 
respect of the core accounting software (SAP) which the company has used for maintaining its books of 
accounts, except that the due to certain inherent and other technical challenges, audit trail is not maintained 
for certain records and changes made.
 
b) Further, from the purpose of payroll processing the Company uses software of third-party service provider 
for certain records. Due to certain inherent and other technical challenges, the audit trail feature was not 
enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes.
39. 
Additional regulatory information
 
(a) Analytical ratios
 
Sr.  Ratio 
Numerator 
Denominator 
December 
 Change %
December
 
No.  
 
 
31, 2024 
31, 2023
 
(i) 
Current ratio 
Current assets 
Current liabilities 
2.13 
 
3.90%
2.05
 
(ii) 
Return on equity ratio Net proﬁt after tax 
Average* share  
18.03% 
 
3.11%
17.48%
 
 
 
 
holders equity
 
(iii) Inventory turnover  
Cost of goods sold 
Average* inventory 
2.21 
 
4.25%
2.12
 
 
ratio 
 
(iv) Trade receivables  
Total Sales 
Average* Trade  
4.40 
 
-10.57%
4.92
 
 
turnover ratio 
 
receivables
 
(v) 
Trade payables  
Purchases 
Average* Trade  
5.25 
 
-3.14%
5.42
 
 
turnover ratio 
 
payables
 
(vi) Net capital  
Total Sales 
Working capital 
2.80 
 
-6.35%
2.99
 
 
turnover ratio
 
(vii) Net proﬁt ratio 
Net proﬁt after tax 
Total Sales 
9.54% 
 
4.38%
9.14%
 
(viii) Return on capital 
Earnings before  
Capital employed 
23.45% 
 
1.08%
23.20%
 
 
 employed 
interest and tax
 
(ix) Return on  
Earnings before 
Average*  
15.12% 
 
2.09% 
14.81%
 
 
investment 
 interest and tax 
total assets
 
 
Total Sales = Revenue from operations less Export incentives
 
 
Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth less Deferred tax assets
 
 
Working capital = Current assets less Current liabilities
 
 
"*Average = ((Opening + Closing) / 2)" 
 
Note:- The reason for variance should be provided for any change in the ratio by more than 25% as compared to 
the ratio of preceding year, as per the requirements of Schedule III.
 
(b) Details of benami property held 
 
 
 
 
 
No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the company under the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder. 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
208
 
(c) 
Borrowing secured against current assets 
 
 
 
 
The Company has placed ﬁxed deposits of INR 500.96 million (December 31, 2023: INR 988.44 million)  
under lien with banks and has availed the overdraft facilities against the same. Thus,  the Company is not 
required to ﬁle quarterly returns or statement of current assets with the banks. 
 
 
(d) Wilful defaulter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or ﬁnancial institution or government or 
any government authority. 
 
 
 
 
(e) 
Relationship with struck oﬀ companies  
 
 
 
 
Below are the details of transactions with the companies struck oﬀ under Companies Act, 2013 or 
Companies Act, 1956.
 
Sr 
Name of the  
Nature of  
Balance outstanding as  
Relationship
 
 
struck oﬀ Company 
transactions 
 at December 31, 2023 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
1 
Soares Engineers Private Limited 
Payables 
0.27 
Non related party 
 
2 
Hi-Tech Engineering Corporation 
Payables 
 3.27 
Non related party 
 
3 
Airmech Engineers Private Limited 
Payables 
 -*  
Non related party
 
Sr 
Name of the  
Nature of  
Balance outstanding as  
Relationship
 
 
struck oﬀ Company 
transactions 
 at December 31, 2024 
 
1 
Soares Engineers Private Limited 
Payables 
0.14 
Non related party
 
2 
Resurgent Power Systems Private Limited 
Payables 
0.69 
Non related party
 
* amount below rounding oﬀ norms of the Group 
 
(f) 
Compliance with number of layers of companies 
 
 
 
 
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013. 
 
 
(g) Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements 
 
 
 
 
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact in the year 
ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
 
(h) Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium 
 
 
 
 
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or 
any other sources or kind of funds) to any other person or entity, including foreign entity (Intermediary) 
with the understanding that the Intermediary shall: 
 
 
 
 
i. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneﬁciaries) or
 
 
ii.  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneﬁciaries 
 
 
 
The Company has not received any funds from any person or entity, including foreign entity (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall: 
 
 
 
i.  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneﬁciaries) or 
 
 
 
 
ii.  provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneﬁciaries 
 
 
(i) 
Undisclosed income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the year ended December 31, 2024 and 
December 31, 2023 in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in 
the books of account. 
 
 
 
 
 
(j) 
Details of cryptocurrency or virtual currency 
 
 
 
 
The Company has not traded or invested in cryptocurrency or virtual currency during the year ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
209
In terms of our report of even date
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530)
 
 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary 
 
(k) Valuation of Property, plant and equipment, Right-of-use assets and Other intangible assets 
 
 
 
The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment or right-of-use assets or intangible assets 
during the year ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
40 
During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company has ﬁled for renewal application with Income Tax 
authorities for Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreement for the period from April 01, 2023 to March 31, 2028 and 
is awaiting the approval. The initial application for Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreement for the period from 
April 01, 2018 to March 31, 2023 was ﬁled in the year ended December 31, 2018 and the same is under approval 
with the Income Tax authorities.  
 
 
 
41 
Events occurring after the reporting period 
 
 
 
 
Refer to note 36 (b) (ii) for the ﬁnal dividend recommended by the directors which is subject to the approval of 
shareholders in the ensuing general meeting.  
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the financial statements  (Contd.)
210
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF KSB LIMITED
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1. 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements of KSB Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its 
subsidiary (Holding Company and its subsidiary 
together referred to as “the Group”) and its 
associate company (refer Note 34 to the attached 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements), which 
comprise the consolidated Balance Sheet as at 
December 31, 2024, and the consolidated 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements, material accounting policy 
information and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements”).
2.  
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid consolidated ﬁnancial statements give 
the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
of the consolidated state of aﬀairs of the Group 
and its associate company as at December 31, 
2024, and consolidated total comprehensive 
income (comprising of proﬁt and other 
comprehensive income), consolidated changes in 
equity and its consolidated cash ﬂows for the year 
then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.  
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) speciﬁed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the 
“Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group and its 
associate company in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements in India in terms 
of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant 
provisions of the Act, and we have fulﬁlled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained, other than the 
unaudited ﬁnancial statements as certiﬁed by the 
management and referred to in sub-paragraph 14 
of the Other Matters section below, is suﬃcient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters
4.  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most signiﬁcance in 
our audit of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
of the current period. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter 
Appropriateness of Revenue Recognition
(Refer to Note 1 (f), 2 (ii) and 20 to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements)
The Group recognises revenue in accordance with Ind 
AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. 
This involves application of signiﬁcant judgement by 
Management with respect to:
• Combining multiple contracts as a single contract.
• Identiﬁcation of distinct performance obligations;
• Allocation of consideration to identiﬁed 
performance obligations;
How our audit addressed  the key  audit  matter
Our audit procedures included the following:
Ÿ Understanding and evaluation of the design and 
testing the operating eﬀectiveness of controls 
surrounding the recording of revenue in accordance 
with the principles of Ind AS 115.
Ÿ Testing of customer contracts on a sample basis to 
assess the terms for identiﬁcation of performance 
obligations in accordance with Ind AS 115 and 
comparing those to the management assessment; 
Ÿ Assessing appropriateness of management’s 
judgements and estimates involved in accounting 
211
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
• Determination of timing of recognition of revenue 
either over a period of time or at a point in time on 
transfer of control to customers. This includes 
assessment of alternative use of the products to the 
Group based on technical analysis as well as legal 
assessment of right to payment.
Considering the above-mentioned factors, 
appropriateness of revenue recognition has been 
considered as a Key Audit Matter. 
for a sample of customer contracts including inquiry 
and discussion with appropriate client personnel 
especially regarding the nature of products and 
alternative use of the products to the Group. 
Ÿ Evaluation of the Holding Company’s in-house legal 
counsel’s views regarding the Group’s right to 
payment for performance to date;
Ÿ Testing the appropriateness of timing of recognition 
of revenue (including procedures related to cut oﬀ 
testing) in line with the terms of the customer 
contracts;
Ÿ Testing the key assumptions used by the 
management to estimate contract risks, claims, 
liquidated damages etc.; 
Ÿ Verifying the reports used by management for 
monitoring contracts and their progress;
Ÿ Evaluating appropriateness of the disclosures made 
in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Ÿ Based on above procedures, we did not identify any 
signiﬁcant exceptions in the judgement applied by 
the management in recognition of revenue.
Other Information
5. 
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included 
in the Annual report but does not include the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual report is 
expected to be made available to us after the date 
of this auditor’s report.
 
Our opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements does not cover the other information 
and we will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
 
In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements, our responsibility is to read 
the other information identiﬁed above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated.
 
When we read the annual report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance and take appropriate 
action as applicable under the relevant laws and 
regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
6. 
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these consolidated ﬁnancial statements in term of 
the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair 
view of the consolidated ﬁnancial position, 
consolidated ﬁnancial performance and 
consolidated cash ﬂows, and changes in equity of 
the Group including its associate company in 
accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the 
Accounting Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 
of the Act. The respective Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group and of its 
associate company are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and for 
212
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal ﬁnancial 
controls, that were operating eﬀectively for 
ensuring accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements by the Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
7. 
In preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements, the respective Board of Directors of 
the companies included in the Group and of its 
associate company are responsible for assessing 
the ability of the Group and of its associate 
company to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so.
8. 
The respective Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group and of its 
associate company are responsible for overseeing 
the ﬁnancial reporting process of the Group and of 
its associate company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
9. 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
inﬂuence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements.
10. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we 
exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is suﬃcient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than 
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(I) of the Act, 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding company has adequate 
internal ﬁnancial controls with reference to 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements in place and the 
operating eﬀectiveness of such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by management.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
signiﬁcant doubt on the ability of the Group and 
its associate company to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of 
our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group and its associate 
company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, 
213
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation. 
• 
Obtain suﬃcient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the ﬁnancial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group and its 
associate company to express an opinion on the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the ﬁnancial 
statements of such entities included in the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements of which we are 
the independent auditors. 
11. 
We communicate with those charged with 
governance of the Holding Company and such 
other entities included in the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other 
matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and signiﬁcant audit ﬁndings, including any 
signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
12. 
We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards. 
13. 
From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most signiﬁcance in the audit 
of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the 
current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest beneﬁts of such communication.
Other Matters
14. 
We did not audit the ﬁnancial statements of one 
subsidiary whose ﬁnancial statements reﬂect total 
assets of Rs 1.74 million and net assets of Rs 1.64 
million as at December 31, 2024, total revenue of 
Rs. Nil, total comprehensive income (comprising 
of loss and other comprehensive income) of Rs 
(0.05) million and net cash ﬂows amounting to Rs 
(0.01) million for the year ended on that date, as 
considered in the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements. These ﬁnancial statements are 
unaudited and have been furnished to us by the 
Management, and our opinion on the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements insofar as it 
relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of this subsidiary and our report in terms 
of sub-section (3) of Section 143 [including Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014] of the Act including report on Other 
Information insofar as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiary, is based solely on such unaudited 
ﬁnancial statements. In our opinion and according 
to the information and explanations given to us by 
the Management, these ﬁnancial statements are 
not material to the Group.
 
Our opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements, and our report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements below, is not modiﬁed 
in respect of the above matter with respect to our 
reliance on the ﬁnancial statements certiﬁed by the 
Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements     
15. 
As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the 
Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 
(“CARO 2020”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) 
of Section 143 of the Act, we report that there are 
no qualiﬁcations or adverse remarks included in 
their CARO 2020 reports issued in respect of the 
standalone ﬁnancial statements of the companies 
which are included in these Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
16. 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we 
report, to the extent applicable, that:
a. 
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
b. 
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid consolidated ﬁnancial statements have 
214
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books, except that the 
backup of certain books of account and other 
books and papers maintained in electronic mode 
has not been maintained by the Holding Company 
on a daily basis on servers physically located in 
India during the year. Further in case of associate, 
in the absence of suﬃcient appropriate audit 
evidence, we are unable to verify the evidence 
whether the backup of books of account and other 
books and papers maintained in electronic mode 
has been kept on a daily basis on servers physically 
located in India for every Sunday's during the 
period from January 1, 2024 to February 15, 
2024. Further, based on our examination, we 
noted a few instances (October 7, 2024 to 
October 9, 2024) during the year where the 
backup could not be taken due to restoration 
activity. Also refer to the matters stated in 
paragraph 14(h)(vi) below on reporting under 
Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended)(“the Rules”). 
c. 
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the 
Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
(including other comprehensive income), the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt 
with by this Report are in agreement with the 
relevant books of account and records maintained 
for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
d. 
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements comply with the Accounting 
Standards speciﬁed under Section 133 of the Act.
e. 
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company and its associate company incorporated 
in India as on December 31, 2024, taken on record 
by the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and its associate company incorporated 
in India, none of the directors of the Group 
companies and its associate company 
incorporated in India is disqualiﬁed as on 
December 31, 2024, from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
f. 
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and 
other matters connected therewith, reference is 
made to our remarks in paragraph 14(b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 
14(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of 
the Rules. 
g. 
With respect to the adequacy of internal ﬁnancial 
controls with reference to consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements of the Group and the operating 
eﬀectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in Annexure A.
h. 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us:
i. 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements disclose the 
impact, if any, of pending litigations on the 
consolidated ﬁnancial position of the Group and 
its associate company– Refer Note 18 (b) and 30 
(a) to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
ii. 
The Group and its associate company did not 
have any long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts as at December 31, 2024 for which there 
were any material foreseeable losses.
iii. 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts 
required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Holding 
Company and its associate company incorporated 
in India during the year.
iv. 
(a) The respective Managements of the Holding 
Company and its associate company which are 
companies incorporated in India whose ﬁnancial 
statements have been audited under the Act have 
represented to us and to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in Note 41(g) 
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, no funds 
(which are material either individually or in the 
aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Holding Company or associate company to or 
in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Holding Company or associate 
215
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT (Contd.)
company (“Ultimate Beneﬁciaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneﬁciaries.
(b)  
The respective Managements of the Holding 
Company and its associate company which are 
companies incorporated in India whose ﬁnancial 
statements have been audited under the Act have 
represented to us and to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the Note 
41(g) to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, no 
funds (which are material either individually or in 
the aggregate) have been received by the Holding 
Company or associate company from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Holding Company or associate company shall, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identiﬁed in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneﬁciaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneﬁciaries.
(c)  
Based on the audit procedures, that has been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, performed by us, nothing has 
come to our notice that has caused us to believe 
that the representations under sub-clause (i) and 
(ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any material 
misstatement.       
v. 
The dividend declared and paid during the year by 
the Holding Company and its associate  company 
is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.     
vi. 
Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Holding Company and associate 
company have used multiple accounting software 
for maintaining their books of account, which 
have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility and that has operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software, except for the following: 
In case of Holding Company
(a)  
in respect of the core accounting software, the 
audit trail is not maintained in case of 
modiﬁcation through certain access and changes 
to certain information or data recorded in the 
software;
(b)  
with respect to another accounting software of a 
third party service provider used for maintaining 
certain records, the audit trail feature was not 
enabled at the database level to log any direct data 
changes;
In case of associate Company
(a)  
In the absence of adequate evidence of necessary 
controls and documentation regarding whether 
audit trail feature is enabled for all relevant 
transactions during the period January 1, 2024 to 
December 11, 2024, we are unable to comment on 
the audit trail feature of the core accounting 
software. The audit trail feature has operated 
from December 12, 2024, except for certain 
information or data;
(b)  
in respect of the second accounting software of a 
third party service provider used for maintaining 
certain records, the audit trail feature was not 
enabled at the database level to log any direct data 
changes;
(c) 
in respect of the third accounting software used by 
the Company, the accounting software did not 
have a feature of audit trail (edit log) facility.
 
During the course of performing our procedures, 
other than the aforesaid instances of audit trail not 
maintained where the question of our 
commenting does not arise, we did not notice any 
instance of audit trail feature being tampered 
with.
17. 
The Group and its associate company have paid/ 
provided for managerial remuneration in 
accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read 
with Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Vivian Pillai
Partner
Membership Number: 127791 
UDIN: 25127791BMNVBD1835
Mumbai
February 27, 2025
216
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS’ REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 16(g) of the Independent 
Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of KSB 
Limited on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the 
year ended December 31, 2024
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements under clause (i) of 
sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. 
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements of the Company as of and for 
the year ended December 31, 2024, we have 
audited the internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements of 
KSB Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Holding Company”) and its associate company, 
which are companies incorporated in India, as of 
that date. 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
2. 
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and its associate company, to whom 
reporting under clause (i) of sub section 3 of 
Section 143 of the Act in respect of the adequacy of 
the internal ﬁnancial controls with reference to 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements is applicable, 
which are companies incorporated in India, are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal ﬁnancial controls based on internal 
control over ﬁnancial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the 
Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal ﬁnancial 
controls that were operating eﬀectively for 
ensuring the orderly and eﬃcient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
ﬁnancial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI and the Standards on Auditing deemed to be 
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal ﬁnancial controls, both 
applicable to an audit of internal ﬁnancial controls 
and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and 
the Guidance Note require that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements was 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated eﬀectively in all material respects.
4. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the 
internal ﬁnancial controls system with reference to 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements and their 
operating eﬀectiveness. Our audit of internal 
ﬁnancial controls with reference to consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal ﬁnancial controls with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
eﬀectiveness of internal control based on the 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
5. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our audit opinion on the Holding 
Company’s internal ﬁnancial controls system with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
217
ANNEXURE TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Contd.)
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements
6. 
A company's internal ﬁnancial control with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and 
the preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company's internal ﬁnancial control with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that;
 
(1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reﬂect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company's assets that could 
have a material eﬀect on the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements
7. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
ﬁnancial controls with reference to consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal 
ﬁnancial controls with reference to consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal ﬁnancial control with 
reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8. 
In our opinion, the Holding Company and its 
associate company, which are companies 
incorporated in India, have, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal ﬁnancial controls 
system with reference to consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements and such internal ﬁnancial controls 
with reference to consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
were operating eﬀectively as at December 31, 
2024, based on the internal control over ﬁnancial 
reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Vivian Pillai
Partner
Membership Number: 127791
UDIN: 25127791BMNVBD1835
Mumbai 
February 27, 2025
218
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2024
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
 
 
 
Particulars 
Notes 
As at  
 As at 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
ASSETS 
 
 
 
I.  
Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment 
3 
 3,864.74   
3,710.40
 
Right-of-use assets 
4 
 327.18      
269.25 
 
Capital work-in-progress 
3 
 528.08     
 
 
310.25 
 
Other Intangible assets 
5 
 192.72 
  
210.24 
 
 
Intangible assets under development 
5 
 
  
18.48        
13.75  
 
Financial assets 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Investments 
6 (a) 
878.28      
 
795.36
 
(b)  Trade receivables 
7 
 19.14        
 
42.34 
 
(c)  Loans  
6 (b) 
 80.24        
 
73.91
 
(d)  Other ﬁnancial assets 
9 
77.98        
42.28 
 
Assets for current tax (net) 
13 (b) 
 112.17 
185.07 
 
Other non-current assets 
11 
 344.18 
 
343.23
 
Total non-current assets 
 
 6,443.19  
   
5,996.08
II.  
Current assets  
 
 
 
 
Inventories  
10 
6,428.23 
6,426.34 
 
Financial assets 
 
(a)  Trade receivables 
7 
 6,502.73 
 
4,917.19
 
(b)  Cash and cash equivalents 
8 (a) 
 959.01   
 
1,195.28
 
(c)  Bank balances other than (b) above 
8 (b) 
2,275.67   
1,550.40 
 
(d)  Loans  
6 (b) 
 52.95 
27.96
 
(e)  Other ﬁnancial assets 
9 
 116.69      
114.75
 
Other current assets 
12 
 701.81      
429.43 
 
Total current assets 
 
 17,037.09  
14,661.35 
 
Total Assets  
 
 23,480.28  
  
 20,657.43
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY  
 
 
Equity share capital 
14 (a) 
 348.08  
 
 
348.08
Other equity 
 
14 (b) 
 14,505.42 
12,671.01 
Total Equity 
 
 
 14,853.50  
13,019.09
LIABILITIES  
 
 
 
I.  
Non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Lease liabilities 
15 
21.67 
 
21.02
 
Provisions 
 
18 (a) 
 569.82 
437.00 
 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) 
13 (a) 
 22.83 
15.40 
 
Total non-current liabilities 
 
 614.32    
473.42 
II.  
Current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Lease liabilities 
15 
 12.69 
11.34 
 
(b)  Trade payables 
16 
 
 
 
-Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises  
 
347.31 
473.09 
 
 
and small enterprises 
 
 
 
 
-Total outstanding dues of creditors other than  
 
 3,406.08 
 
2,959.46
 
 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 
(c)  Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
17 
955.44  
925.02
 
Other current liabilities 
19 
2,657.72 
 
2,258.52
 
Provisions 
 
18 (b) 
 558.52 
537.49
 
Current tax liabilities (net) 
13 (b) 
74.70 
-
 
Total current liabilities 
 
 8,012.46 
  
7,164.92 
 
Total Liabilities 
 
 8,626.78 
7,638.34 
 
Total Equity and Liabilities  
 
 23,480.28 
20,657.43 
Summary of material accounting policies 
 
 
1 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
 
 
 
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016  
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Company Secretary
219
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended December 31, 2024 
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
 
 
 
Particulars 
Notes 
 Year ended  
Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Income 
 
 
Revenue from operations 
20 
25,330.86  
22,472.38
Other income 
 
21 
 367.51 
323.37
Total Income  
 
 
25,698.37  
 
 
22,795.75
Expenses  
 
Cost of materials consumed 
22 
 12,034.04 
10,688.97 
Purchases of stock-in-trade 
23 
  2,567.34 
1,907.05 
Changes in inventories of ﬁnished goods,  
work-in-progress and stock-in-trade 
24 
 (379.94)         
179.08
Employee beneﬁts expense 
25 
3,135.19  
 2,696.83 
Finance costs 
 
26 
 27.17    
52.90 
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
27 
 543.24 
 496.78
Other expenses  
 
28 
 4,598.89   
4,064.75 
Total Expenses  
 
  
22,525.93  
20,086.36
Proﬁt before share of net proﬁt of associate accounted  
 
for using the equity method and tax 
 
 
 
3,172.44 
2,709.39 
Share of net proﬁt of associate accounted for using 
the equity method  
 
134.06      
94.10 
Proﬁt before tax 
 
  
3,306.50 
 
 
2,803.49
Tax expense 
 
 
Current tax 
 
13 (b) 
 815.07 
721.62 
Deferred tax 
 
13 (a), (b) 
 16.68 
 (5.46)
Total tax expense 
 
  
831.75 
716.16
Proﬁt for the year 
 
  
2,474.75 
 
 
2,087.33
Other comprehensive income 
 
 
Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss 
 
 
Remeasurement of post-employment beneﬁt obligations 
31 
 (36.73) 
 31.73
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to 
proﬁt or loss 
 
13 (a), (b) 
 9.25 
 (7.98) 
Share of Other comprehensive income of associate 
accounted for using the equity method 
 
 (3.72) 
 (1.03)
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax  
 
 (31.20) 
 
 
 22.72
Total comprehensive income for the year 
 
2,443.55 
2,110.05
Earnings per equity share 
 
 
Basic and Diluted (face value of ` 2/- each) 
29 
 14.22 
11.99
Summary of material accounting policies 
 
 
1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016  
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
220
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2024 
 
Particulars 
Year ended
 
 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
A. Cash ﬂows from operating activities
 
2,803.49
Proﬁt before tax 
 
3,306.50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjustments for :
 
 
 
496.78  
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
543.24 
 
Net gain on disposal of property, 
 
plant and equipment and intangible assets
(6.32)
 
 
  
(2.21) 
 
   
 
52.90   
Finance costs 
 27.17 
 
 
 
(163.27) 
Interest income 
 (239.47)
 
 
  
(2.72)  
Fair value (gain)/loss in derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
1.40
 
Sundry credit balances and provisions 
 
no longer required, written back 
- 
  
(3.45) 
 
 
 
 
8.61  
Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss 
 4.78
 
 
 
(55.49) 
 
Allowance for doubtful trade and other receivables 
 71.89 
 
 
 
(94.10) 
 
Share of net proﬁt of associate 
(134.06)
 
 
 
 
 
237.05
268.63
 
3,040.54
Operating proﬁt before working capital changes 
 
3,575.13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjustment for changes in working capital: 
 
 
 
 
(Increase) / decrease in operating assets: 
 
 
 
 
Inventories 
 (1.89) 
  
(815.45) 
 
 
 
(789.75) 
Trade receivables 
 (1,642.30) 
 
 
  
28.66  
Loans 
(31.32)
 
 
  
(46.75) 
Other ﬁnancial assets 
 (6.97)
 
 
  
(83.95) 
Other assets 
(287.64)
 
Increase / (decrease) in operating liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
Trade payables 
319.60  
 
301.28  
 
 
 
 
110.27  
 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
98.01
 
 
 
295.86   
Other liabilities 
 399.20 
 
    
 
70.18  
Provisions 
117.12
 
 
  
 
 
(929.65)
(1,036.19)
 
 
 
 
 
2,110.89
Cash generated from operations 
 
 2,538.94 
 
 
(695.92)
Income taxes paid (net of refunds) 
 
(667.47)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,414.97 
Net cash ﬂows generated from operating activities (A) 
 
 1,871.47
 
 
 
 
B.  Cash ﬂows from investing activities 
 
 
 
 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 
 
and intangible assets 
 (1,005.50)  
 
(932.76) 
 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant 
 
and equipment and intangible assets 
 10.67 
 
8.34  
 
 
  
(3,098.26) 
Investment in ﬁxed deposits 
 (2,589.20)
 
 
 
3,838.88  
Redemption of ﬁxed deposits 
 1,863.91
 
 
 
189.80  
Interest received 
 208.52 
 
  
 
39.32  
Income from trade investments (non-current) 
 47.41  
 
Net cash ﬂows generated from/(used in) 
 
investing activities (B) 
 
(1464.19) 
  
45.32
221
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2024 (Contd.)
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
C.  
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
400.00 
Proceeds from current borrowings 
 500.00
 
 
 
(400.00) 
Repayment of current borrowings 
 (500.00)
 
 
 
(49.92) 
Interest paid 
(23.87)
 
 
 
(13.15) 
Repayment of lease liabilities 
(15.07)
 
 
 
(522.12) 
Dividend paid 
 (609.14)
 
(585.19)
Net cash ﬂows used in ﬁnancing activities (c)  
 
(648.08) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and cash 
 
875.10
equivalents (A+B+C) 
 
(240.80) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
319.54 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
 
 1,195.28
 
 
 
0.64 
Eﬀects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  
4.53
 
 
 
1,195.28 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 
959.01
Reconciliation of Cash and cash equivalents as per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of following: 
As at  
As at 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents [Refer note 8 (a)] 
 959.01 
1,195.28 
Balances as per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
959.01 
1,195.28 
Notes: 
(i)  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' in accordance with 'Ind AS 
7 : Statement of Cash Flows'. 
 
 
 
(ii)  Refer note 38 (a) for Net debt reconciliation. 
 
 
 
The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.  
 
This is the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date.
 
Particulars 
 
Year ended 
 
 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
222
(All amounts in  million, unless otherwise stated)
`
A. Equity Share Capital
B.  Other equity [Refer note 14 (b)]
As at January 1, 2023 
 
 348.08 
Change in equity share capital 
 14 (a)  
 -   
As at December 31, 2023 
 
 348.08 
Change in equity share capital 
 14 (a)  
 -   
As at December 31, 2024 
 
 348.08 
Notes
The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.  
 
 
 
This is the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop 
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary
 
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Amalgamation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total
As at January 1, 2023 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20 
1,085.97 
0.06 
9,993.66 11,083.08 
Proﬁt for the year 
- 
-  
- 
 -    
-  
2,087.33 
2,087.33 
Other Comprehensive Income 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Remeasurement of post-employment 
beneﬁt obligations (net of tax) 
-  
-  
-  
-  
- 
22.72 
22.72
Total Comprehensive Income 
- 
 - 
 -  
-    
-  
2,110.05 
2,110.05
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Dividend paid 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (522.12)  (522.12)
As at December 31, 2023 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20 
1,085.97 
0.06 
11,581.59 12,671.01
 
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Amalgamation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total
As at January 1, 2024 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20   1,085.97  
0.06 
11,581.59 12,671.01  
Proﬁt for the year 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,474.75 
2,474.75
Other Comprehensive Income 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Remeasurement of post-employment 
beneﬁt obligations (net of tax) - 
- 
- 
- 
-  
- 
(31.20) 
(31.20)
Total Comprehensive Income - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,443.55 
2,443.55
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Dividend paid - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 - 
(609.14) 
(609.14)
As at December 31, 2024 
0.09 
0.10 
3.20  1,085.97  
0.06 
13,416.00 14,505.42
Consolidated Statement of changes in equirty for the year ended December 31, 2024 
223
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements 
 
Background: KSB Limited (the 'Company') is a public limited Company domiciled in India with its registered 
oﬃce located at Oﬃce No. 601, Runwal R-Square, L.B.S Marg, Mulund (West), Mumbai – 400 080. The 
Company is listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE). The Company is 
engaged in the business of manufacture of diﬀerent types of power-driven pumps and industrial valves. 
Castings are mainly produced for captive consumption. CIN of the Company is L29120MH1960PLC011635. 
 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the ﬁnancial statements of KSB Limited and its subsidiary 
company (jointly referred to as the 'Group') and its associate company (Refer Note 34 to the attached 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements).
 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on February 27, 
2025.
1. 
Summary of material accounting policies: 
 
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise 
stated. 
a. 
Basis of preparation
 
i. Compliance with Ind AS
 
 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS) notiﬁed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) [Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from time to time] and other relevant provisions of the Act.
 
ii. Historical cost convention
 
 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:
 
 
● Derivative instruments that are measured at fair value
 
 
● Deﬁned beneﬁt plans - plan assets measured at fair value.
 
 
All assets and liabilities have been classiﬁed as current or non-current as per the Group's operating cycle and 
other criteria set out in the Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the 
time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the 
Group has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for all products and services except for certain set of 
products for which operating cycle has been ascertained as 48 months for the purpose of current and non-
current classiﬁcation of assets and liabilities.
b. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
I)  New and Amended Standards
 
 
The Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs has notiﬁed Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2023 dated March 31, 2023 to amend the following Ind AS which are eﬀective for annual periods 
beginning on or after April 1, 2023. The Group applied these amendments for the ﬁrst-time.
 
 
(i)  Deﬁnition of Accounting Estimates - Amendments to Ind AS 8
 
 
 
The amendments clarify the distinction between changes in accounting estimates, changes in 
accounting policies and the correction of errors. It has also been clariﬁed how entities use 
measurement techniques and inputs to develop accounting estimates. The amendments had no impact 
on the Consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
 
 
(ii)  Disclosure of Accounting Policies - Amendments to Ind AS 1
 
 
 
The amendments aim to help entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful by 
replacing the requirement for entities to disclose their 'signiﬁcant' accounting policies with a 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
224
requirement to disclose their 'material' accounting policies and adding guidance on how entities apply 
the concept of materiality in making decisions about accounting policy disclosures. The amendments 
have had an impact on the Group's disclosures of accounting policies, but not on the measurement, 
recognition or presentation of any items in the Consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
 
 
(iii)  Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction - Amendments to Ind 
AS 12 
 
 
 
The amendments narrow the scope of the initial recognition exception under Ind AS 12, so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary diﬀerences such 
as leases.
 
 
 
The Group previously recognised for deferred tax on leases on a net basis. As a result of these 
amendments, the Group has recognised a separate deferred tax asset in relation to its lease liabilities 
and a deferred tax liability in relation to its right-of-use assets. Since, these balances qualify for oﬀset 
as per the requirements of paragraph 74 of Ind AS 12, there is no impact in the balance sheet. There 
was also no impact on the opening retained earnings as at January 01, 2024.
 
 
 
Apart from these, consequential amendments and editorials have been made to other Ind AS.
c. 
Segment reporting 
 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief 
operating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker is the Group's board of directors. Refer note 33 
for segment information presented.
d. 
Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
 
(i) Subsidiaries 
 
 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the group has control. The group 
controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with 
the entity and has the ability to aﬀect those returns through its power to direct the relevant activities of the 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They 
are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to 
account for business combinations by the group. The group combines the ﬁnancial statements of the 
company and its subsidiary line by line adding together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income and 
expenses. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group 
companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of 
an impairment of the transferred asset. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
 
(ii) Associates 
 
 
Associates are all entities over which the group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence but not control or joint control. 
This is generally the case where the group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in 
associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting after initially being recognised at cost.
 
(iii) Equity method
 
 
Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted 
thereafter to recognise the group's share of the post-acquisition proﬁts or losses of the investee in proﬁt and 
loss, and the group's share of other comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income. 
Dividends received or receivable from associates are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
225
the investment. When the group's share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its 
interest in the entity, including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognise 
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other entity. Unrealised 
gains on transactions between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the group's 
interest in this entity. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. The carrying amount of 
equity accounted investments are tested for impairment in accordance with the policy of the Group.
e. 
Foreign currency translation
 
(i)  Functional and presentation currency
 
 
Items included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the 'functional currency'). The consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is the Group's functional and presentation 
currency.
 
(ii)  Transactions and balances
 
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at year end are recognised in proﬁt and loss and are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and 
Loss on a net basis.
 
 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
f. 
Revenue recognition
 
The Group recognises the revenue when a customer obtains control of a promised good or service and thus has 
the ability to direct the use and obtain the beneﬁts from the good or service in an amount that reﬂects the 
consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. 
 
The ﬁve-step process is applied for recognition of revenue:
 
 
i. 
identify contracts with customers
 
 
ii. identify the separate performance obligation
 
 
iii. determine the transaction price of the contract 
 
 
iv. allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations, and 
 
 
v. recognise the revenue as each performance obligation is satisﬁed.
 
i. Revenue from sale of products
 
 
The Group accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from parties involved, the rights 
of the parties are identiﬁed, payment terms are identiﬁed, the contract has commercial substance and 
collectability of consideration is probable. 
 
 
Group generate revenue from sale of pumps, valves and related support services. The Group may promise to 
provide distinct goods or services within a contract, for example when a contract covers multiple promises 
(e.g., supply of pumps, motors and spares), in which case the Group separates the contract into more than 
one performance obligation. If a contract is separated into more than one performance obligation, the 
Group allocates the total transaction price to each performance obligation on the basis of the relative 
standalone selling price of each distinct product or service promised in the contract. Where standalone 
selling price is not observable, the Group uses the expected cost-plus margin approach to allocate the 
transaction price to each distinct performance obligation. 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
226
 
 
The Group assesses for the timing of revenue recognition in case of each distinct performance obligation. 
The Group ﬁrst assesses whether the revenue can be recognized over time as it performs if any of the 
following criteria is met:
 
 
(a) The customer simultaneously consumes the beneﬁts as the Group performs, or
 
 
(b) The customer controls the work-in-progress, or 
 
 
(c) The Group's performance does not create an asset with alternative use to the Group and the Group has 
right to payment for performance completed till date 
 
 
If none of the criteria above are met, the Group recognizes revenue at a point-in-time. The point of 
recognition of revenue is determined when the control of the goods or services is transferred which is 
generally determined based on when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the 
customer. Apart from this, the Group also considers its present right to payment, the legal title to the goods, 
the physical possession and the customer acceptance in determining whether the control has been 
transferred.
 
 
In case of revenue to be recognized over time, the Group uses input method to measure the progress for 
contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as it incurs costs on 
contracts. Under the input method measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is 
measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the 
performance obligation. Revenues, including estimated fees or proﬁts, are recorded proportionally as costs 
are incurred. 
 
 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the amount of transaction price 
(net of variable consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. Due to the nature of the work 
required to be performed, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex, subject to 
many variables and requires signiﬁcant judgment. It is common for project contracts to contain penalties, 
bonuses or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable 
amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or 
cost targets and may be based upon customer discretion. The transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable consideration on account of various discounts and schemes oﬀered by the Group 
as part of the contract.
 
 
The Group estimates variable consideration using expected value method of probability-weighted values at 
an amount to which it expects to be entitled. The Group includes estimated amounts in the transaction price 
to the extent it is probable that a signiﬁcant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur and 
the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The estimates of variable 
consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are 
based largely on an assessment of the anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and 
forecasted) that is reasonably available. 
 
 
The Group does not expect material ﬁnancing component adjustments to contracts where the period 
between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and payment exceeds one year. As a 
consequence, the Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.
 
 
Contracts are modiﬁed to account for changes in contract speciﬁcations and requirements. The Group 
considers contract modiﬁcations to exist when the modiﬁcation either creates new or changes the existing 
enforceable rights and obligations. Most of the contract modiﬁcations are for goods or services that are 
not distinct from the existing contract due to the signiﬁcant integration service provided in the context of 
the contract and are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract. The eﬀect of a contract 
modiﬁcation on the transaction price and measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it 
relates, is recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a 
cumulative catch-up basis. 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
227
 
 
The Group recognizes Advances from customers as contractual liability.
 
 
When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned on a 
performance obligation related to a contract, a provision for the entire loss on the performance obligation 
is recognized in the period.
 
(ii)   Revenue from sale of services
 
 
Group generate revenue from sale of pumps, valves and related support services. Revenue from services is 
recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
 
(iii) Other operating revenue
 
 
Revenue comprising of income from ancillary activities incidental to the operations of the Group is 
recognized when the right to receive the income is established as per the terms of the contract. Revenue 
from export incentives majorly comprises of Duty drawback, Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme 
(MEIS) and Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) which are recognised on an 
accrual basis at speciﬁed rates. Refer note 20.
 
(iv) Other income
 
 
Interest income:
 
 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the eﬀective 
interest rate applicable. Interest income is included in Other income in the Consolidated Statement of 
Proﬁt and Loss.
 
 
Dividends:
 
 
Dividends are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss only when the right to receive 
payment is established, it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the dividend will ﬂow to 
the Group, and the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
g. 
Income tax
 
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax payable on the current period's taxable income 
based on the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and 
liabilities attributable to temporary diﬀerences and to unused tax losses.
 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at 
the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations is subject to interpretation. 
 
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary diﬀerences arising between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Deferred income tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction aﬀects neither accounting 
proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt (tax loss). Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary diﬀerences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary diﬀerences and losses.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oﬀset when there is a legally enforceable right to oﬀset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are oﬀset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to oﬀset and intends either to settle on a 
net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
228
 
Current and deferred tax is recognised in Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
h. 
Leases
 
As a lessee:
 
Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is 
available for use by the Group. Each lease payment is allocated between the principal (liability) and ﬁnance 
cost. The ﬁnance cost is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. 
 
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include 
the net present value of the ﬁxed payments (including in-substance ﬁxed payments), less any lease incentives 
receivable. Group does not have any variable lease payments.
 
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the measurement of 
the liability. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be 
readily determined, the lessee's incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to 
pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with 
similar terms and conditions.
 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:
 
● the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability
 
● any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received
 
● any initial direct costs, and
 
● restoration costs.
 
Right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line 
basis. If the Group is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over 
the underlying asset's useful life.
 
Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis 
as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 
12 months or less.
i. 
Impairment of assets
 
The management periodically assesses, using external and internal sources, whether there is an indication that 
an asset may be impaired. If an asset is impaired, the Group recognises an impairment loss as the excess of the 
carrying amount of the asset over the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is higher of an asset's or cash 
generating unit's net selling price and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of estimated future cash 
ﬂows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. An 
impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined if no impairment loss had previously been recognised.
j. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, balances with banks in current accounts and EEFC accounts, 
ﬁxed deposits with banks with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and which are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Other bank 
balances include ﬁxed deposits with original maturities of more than three months and earmarked accounts 
which includes unpaid dividend.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
229
k. 
Trade receivables
 
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business and reﬂects group's unconditional right to consideration (that is, payment is due only on the 
passage of time). Trade receivables are recognised initially at the transaction price as they do not contain 
signiﬁcant ﬁnancing components. The group holds the trade receivables with the objective of collecting the 
contractual cash ﬂows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the eﬀective interest 
method, less loss allowance.
l. 
Borrowing and Borrowing costs
 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost. Any diﬀerence between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and 
the redemption amount is recognised in proﬁt or loss over the period of the borrowings using the eﬀective 
interest method. Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation speciﬁed in the contract 
is discharged, cancelled or expired. Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Group has an 
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period.
 
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying 
asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the 
year in which they are incurred.
m. 
Inventories 
 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
 
Cost of raw materials, components, stores, spares, loose tools and traded goods comprises cost of purchases. 
Cost of work-in progress and ﬁnished goods comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate 
proportion of variable and ﬁxed overhead expenditure, the latter being allocated on the basis of normal 
operating capacity. Cost of inventories also include all other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Costs are assigned to individual items of inventory on the basis of weighted 
average basis. Costs of purchased inventory are determined after deducting rebates and discounts. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
n. 
Financial assets
 
(i) Classiﬁcation
 
 
The Group classiﬁes its ﬁnancial assets in the following measurement categories:
 
 
● those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or 
through proﬁt or loss), and
 
 
● those measured at amortised cost.
 
The classiﬁcation depends on the entity's business model for managing the ﬁnancial assets and the contractual 
terms of the cash ﬂows.
 
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in proﬁt or loss or other 
comprehensive income. For investments in debt instruments, this will depend on the business model in which 
the investment is held. 
 
For investments in equity instruments, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrevocable election 
at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive 
income.
 
The Group assesses whether the ﬁnancial asset falls within the deﬁnition of equity basis the underlying 
contractual terms and whether the Group has residual interest in the assets of the entity (investee) after 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
230
deducting all of its liabilities. If the ﬁnancial asset does not meet the deﬁnition of equity, the disclosure of same 
is assessed based on the substance of the transaction. During the year, the Group has subscribed shares in a 
power producer entity as per the regulatory requirement as set out in Electricity Rules, 2005. Based on the 
substance of transaction, the amount has been disclosed as security deposit.
 
The Group reclassiﬁes debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets 
changes.
 
ii. Measurement
 
 
At initial recognition, the Group measures a ﬁnancial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a ﬁnancial 
asset not at fair value through proﬁt or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
of the ﬁnancial asset. Transaction costs of ﬁnancial assets carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss are 
expensed in Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. However, trade receivables that do not contain a 
signiﬁcant ﬁnancing component are measured at transaction price
 
 
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their 
cash ﬂows are solely payment of principal and interest.
 
Debt instruments
 
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group's business model for managing the asset 
and the cash ﬂow characteristics of the asset. The Group classiﬁes its debt instruments at amortised cost as 
below:
 
● Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash ﬂows where those cash ﬂows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. A gain or loss on a debt 
investment that is subsequently measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship is 
recognised in proﬁt or loss when the asset is derecognised or impaired. Interest income from these ﬁnancial 
assets is included in other income using the eﬀective interest rate method.
 
Equity instruments
 
The Group subsequently measures equity investment at fair value. The Group's Management elects to present 
fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income on an instrument by 
instrument basis.
 
iii. Impairment of ﬁnancial assets
 
 
The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated with its assets carried at 
amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a signiﬁcant 
increase in credit risk. Refer note 37(A) for details of credit risk.
 
 
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simpliﬁed approach permitted by Ind AS 109 Financial 
Instruments, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the 
receivables.
 
iv. Derecognition of ﬁnancial assets
 
 
A ﬁnancial asset is derecognised only when 
 
 
● The Group has transferred the rights to receive cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial asset or
 
 
● retains the contractual rights to receive the cash ﬂows of the ﬁnancial asset but assumes a contractual 
obligation to pay the cash ﬂows to one or more recipients.
 
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Group evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks 
and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial asset. In such cases, the ﬁnancial asset is derecognised. Where the 
entity has not transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial asset, the ﬁnancial 
asset is not derecognised.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
231
 
Where the entity has neither transferred a ﬁnancial asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the ﬁnancial asset, the ﬁnancial asset is derecognised if the Group has not retained control of the 
ﬁnancial asset. Where the Group retains control of the ﬁnancial asset, the asset is continued to be recognised to 
the extent of continuing involvement in the ﬁnancial asset.
o. 
Oﬀsetting ﬁnancial instruments
 
Financial assets and liabilities are oﬀset, and the net amount is reported in the consolidated balance sheet 
where there is a legally enforceable right to oﬀset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a 
net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be 
contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of 
default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparty.
p. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
Freehold land is stated at historical cost. All other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at 
historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts associated with the item will ﬂow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Consolidated 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss during the reporting period in which they are incurred.
 
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value
 
Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method/ written down value method over the useful lives of assets 
which has been assessed as under the technical advice, taking into account the nature of the asset, the estimated 
usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past history of replacement, maintenance support, etc., 
which are diﬀerent from those prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) except for server and 
networking (SLM) and furniture and ﬁxtures (WDV) which are same as prescribed in Schedule II to the Act. 
Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:
 
Asset  
 
 
Useful life and method of depreciation
 
Buildings  
 
43 to 90 years (WDV)
 
Plant and equipment 
09 to 21 years (SLM)
 
Vehicles 
 
 
05 to 11 years (WDV)
 
Oﬃce equipment 
 
10 years (SLM)
 
Computer equipment 
06 years (SLM)
 
The asset's residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of the reporting 
period.
 
An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying 
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
 
Net gains or net losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
included in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss under other income or other expenses respectively.
q. 
Intangible assets 
 
Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost net of tax/ duty credits availed, if any, and net of accumulated 
amortisation. Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of an intangible asset are determined as 
the diﬀerence between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and recognised as income 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
232
or expense in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. Intangible assets are amortized on the straight-
line method as follows:
 
Asset  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Useful life 
 
Copyrights, patents, intellectual property rights and operating rights 
7 to 15 years
 
Computer software  
 
 
 
 
 
3 years
r. 
Trade and other payables
 
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of ﬁnancial 
year which are unpaid. Trade and other payables are unsecured and are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within operating cycle determined by the Group after the reporting period. They are 
recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the eﬀective interest 
method. 
s. 
Provisions and Contingent liabilities
 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event and it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are determined based on the best estimate 
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date. Provisions are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date 
and adjusted to reﬂect current best estimates. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. 
Provision for warranty is computed as a percentage of sales based on the past trends observed.
 
Contingent liabilities are disclosed by way of a note to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements when there is a 
possible obligation arising from past  events, the existence of which will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group or a present 
obligation that arises from past events where it is either not probable that an outﬂow of resources will be 
required to settle or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made.
t. 
Employee beneﬁts
 
(i)  Short-term obligations
 
 
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary beneﬁts that are expected to be settled wholly 
within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service are 
recognised in respect of employees' services up to the end of the reporting period and are measured at the 
amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are presented as current 
employee beneﬁt obligations in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
(ii)  Other long-term employee beneﬁt obligations
 
 
The liabilities for Other long-term employee beneﬁts such as long service award, privileged leave and sick 
leave are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service. They are therefore measured as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The beneﬁts are discounted using the market yields at the end of 
the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. The Group does not have an unconditional 
right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Group does 
not expect all employees to take the full amount of accrued leave or require payment within twelve 
months and accordingly, amounts have been classiﬁed as current and non-current
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
233
 
 (iii) Post-employment obligations
 
 
The Group operates the following post-employment schemes: 
 
 
(a)  Deﬁned beneﬁt plans - gratuity and superannuation
 
 
(b)  Deﬁned contribution plans - provident fund
 
(a)  Deﬁned beneﬁt plans - gratuity and superannuation
 
 
(i)  Gratuity 
 
 
 
The Group provides for gratuity, a deﬁned beneﬁt plan (the “Gratuity Plan”) covering eligible 
employees in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, as amended from time to time. The 
Gratuity Plan provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death or termination 
of employment, of an amount based on the respective employee's salary and the tenure of 
employment.
 
 
 
The liability or asset recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt gratuity 
plans is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the end of the reporting period less the 
fair value of plan assets. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method.
 
 
 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outﬂows by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
 
 
 
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in ﬁnance cost in the Consolidated 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss.
 
 
 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive 
income. They are included in retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
and in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
 
 
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation resulting from plan amendments or 
curtailments are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss as past 
service cost.
 
 
(ii)  Superannuation
 
 
 
Superannuation is a beneﬁt to certain employees (depending on the grade / category of the employee 
and completed years of service) per month for each completed year of service. The accounting policy 
followed by the Group for Superannuation is consistent with accounting policy followed for Gratuity 
[Refer note 1(t)(iii)(a)(i)].
 
(b)  Deﬁned Contribution Plans
 
 
The Group pays provident fund contributions for all employees to publicly administered provident funds 
as per local regulations. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been 
paid. The contributions are accounted for as deﬁned contribution plans and the contributions are 
recognised as employee beneﬁts expense when they are due. 
u. 
Dividends 
 
The Group recognizes provision for Dividend and the tax thereupon, if any, once the Dividend is approved by 
the shareholders in the annual general meeting. 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
234
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
v. 
Contributed equity
 
Equity shares are classiﬁed as equity.
 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds. 
w. 
Earnings per share
 
i. 
Basic Earnings per share
 
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
 
 
● 
the net proﬁt for the period attributable to equity shareholders
 
 
● 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the ﬁnancial year.
 
Earnings considered in ascertaining the Group's earnings per share is the net proﬁt for the period after 
deducting any attributable tax thereto for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the period and for all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares or share 
split, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that have changed the number of equity shares 
outstanding, without a corresponding change in resources.  
 
ii. 
Diluted Earnings per share
 
 
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the ﬁgures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
 
 
● 
the after-income tax eﬀect of interest and other ﬁnancing costs associated with dilutive potential 
equity shares, and
 
 
● 
the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming 
the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
 
Other accounting policies
 
a. 
Government grants
 
 
Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received, and the Group will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants 
relating to income are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Proﬁt and Loss. Refer note 1(f)(iii) 
for accounting policy related to Duty drawback, Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme (MEIS) and 
Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP).
 
 
When government or related institutions provide concession in interest on borrowings or loans availed 
by the Group from ﬁnancial institutions, such interest concession is regarded as a government grant. 
The Group accounts for the interest paid at concessional rate on packing credit facility availed for 
export of goods.
 
b. 
Derivatives
 
 
The Group enters into certain derivative contracts to hedge risks which are not designated as hedges. 
Such contracts are accounted for at fair value through proﬁt or loss.
 
c. 
Rounding of amounts:
 
 
Amounts disclosed in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in INR in million rounded oﬀ 
to two decimal places as permitted by Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, unless otherwise stated.
2.   
Signiﬁcant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires the use of accounting estimates which, by deﬁnition, will 
seldom equal the actual results. Management also needs to exercise judgement in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
235
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reliable and 
relevant under the circumstances. This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, and of items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and 
assumptions turning out to be diﬀerent than those originally assessed. Management believes that the estimates 
are the most likely outcome of future events. Detailed information about each of these estimates and 
judgements is described below.
 
Judgements
 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, Management has made the following judgements, 
which have the most signiﬁcant eﬀect on the amounts recognized in the ﬁnancial statements:
 
i. 
Legal contingencies
 
 
The Group has received various orders and notices from tax authorities in respect of direct taxes and 
indirect taxes. The outcome of these matters may have a material eﬀect on the ﬁnancial position, results of 
operations or cash ﬂows. Management regularly analyzes current information about these matters and 
provides provisions for probable contingent losses including the estimate of legal expense to resolve the 
matters. In making the decision regarding the need for loss provisions, management considers the degree 
of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a suﬃciently reliable estimate of the 
amount of loss. The ﬁling of a suit or formal assertion of a claim against the Group or the disclosure of any 
such suit or assertions, does not automatically indicate that a provision of a loss may be appropriate.
 
ii. Revenue Recognition on Contracts with Customers
 
 
Group generate revenue from sale of Pumps, valves and related support services. Group uses judgement 
with respect to accounting of multiple contracts which need to be combined and considered as single 
contract. The Group exercises judgement with respect to identifying contracts for which revenue need to 
be recognised point in time or over time, depending upon when customer consumes the beneﬁt, when the 
control is passed to customer, whether asset created has an alternative use and whether the Group has 
right to payment for performance completed till date, either contractually or legally.
 
Estimates and assumptions
 
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting 
date, that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year, are described below. The Group based its assumptions and estimates 
on parameters available when the ﬁnancial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions 
about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are 
beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reﬂected in the assumptions when they occur.
 
i.  Warranty 
 
 
The Group generally oﬀers an 18 months warranty for its products, except for certain projects where the 
warranty oﬀered may be higher to meet speciﬁc project requirements. Warranty costs are determined as a 
percentage of sales based on the past trends of the costs required to be incurred for repairs, replacements, 
material costs and servicing cost. Management estimates the related closing provision as at Balance Sheet 
date for future warranty claims based on historical warranty claim information, as well as recent trends 
that might suggest that past information may diﬀer from future claims. The assumptions made in current 
period are consistent with those in the prior year. As the time value of money is not considered to be 
material, warranty provisions are not discounted. Refer note 18 for further information.
 
ii. Gratuity
 
 
The cost of the deﬁned beneﬁt gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuation. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may diﬀer 
from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
236
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
increases, attrition rate, mortality rates and expected return on planned assets. Due to the complexities 
involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is highly sensitive to 
changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at the year end. The parameter most subject to 
change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the 
management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent with the currencies 
of the post-employment beneﬁt obligation. The mortality rate is based on Indian Assured Lives Mortality 
(2012-14) Ultimate. Those mortality tables tend to change only at interval in response to demographic 
changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inﬂation rates. For 
further details about gratuity obligations are given in note 31.
 
iii. Recoverability of trade receivables
 
 
Judgements are required in assessing the recoverability of overdue trade receivables and determining 
whether a provision against those receivables is required. Factors considered include the credit rating of 
the counterparty, the amount and timing of anticipated future payments and any possible actions that can 
be taken to mitigate the risk of non-payment. Refer note 37(A) for further details.
 
iv. Inventories
 
 
An inventory provision is recognized for cases where the realizable value is estimated to be lower than the 
inventory carrying value. The inventory provision is estimated taking into account various factors, 
including prevailing sale prices of inventory item and losses associated with obsolete / slow moving / 
redundant inventory items. The Company has, based on these assessments, made adequate provision in 
the books.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
237
3 
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and ﬁxtures
Vehicles
Oﬃce 
equipment
Total
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and ﬁxtures
Vehicles
Oﬃce 
equipment
Total
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Gross carrying amount as at 
January 1, 2023 
 3.01  
 2,299.16  
 5,053.07  
 144.54  
 70.68  
 210.39  
 7,780.85 
Additions 
 -    
 327.88  
 420.24  
 52.87  
 23.55  
 147.72  
 972.26 
Disposals 
 -    
 (1.67) 
 (131.88) 
 (1.83) 
 (3.79) 
 (16.13) 
 (155.30)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 3.01  
 2,625.37  
 5,341.43  
 195.58  
 90.44  
 341.98  
 8,597.81 
Accumulated depreciation 
January 1, 2023 
 -    
 1,019.52  
 3,255.42  
 126.43  
 49.82  
 115.02  
 4,566.21 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 -    
 130.72  
 288.78  
 11.39  
 19.71  
 19.78  
 470.38 
Disposals 
 -    
 (1.50) 
 (126.30) 
 (1.76) 
 (3.71) 
 (15.91) 
 (149.18)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 -    
 1,148.74  
 3,417.90  
 136.06  
 65.82  
 118.89  
 4,887.41 
Net carrying amount as at 
December 31, 2023 
 3.01  
 1,476.63  
 1,923.53  
 59.52  
 24.62  
 223.09  
 3,710.40 
Gross carrying amount as at 
January 1, 2024 
 3.01  
 2,625.37  
 5,341.43  
 195.58  
 90.44  
 341.98  
 8,597.81 
Additions 
 -    
 129.27  
 465.15  
 7.99  
 34.93  
 20.93  
 658.27 
Disposals 
 -    
 (0.07) 
 (81.99) 
 (0.67) 
 (13.68) 
 (2.98) 
 (99.39)
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 3.01  
 2,754.57  
 5,724.59  
 202.90  
 111.69  
 359.93  
 9,156.69 
Accumulated depreciation as at 
January 1, 2024 
 -    
 1,148.74  
 3,417.90  
 136.06  
 65.82  
 118.89  
 4,887.41 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 -    
 149.17  
 272.68  
 23.49  
 24.32  
 29.92  
 499.58 
Disposals 
 -    
 (0.06) 
 (80.56) 
 (0.64) 
 (11.52) 
 (2.26) 
 (95.04)
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 -    
 1,297.85  
 3,610.02  
 158.91  
 78.62  
 146.55  
 5,291.95 
Net carrying amount as at 
December 31, 2024 
 3.01  
 1,456.72  
 2,114.57  
 43.99  
 33.07  
 213.38  
 3,864.74 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
238
Notes:
(i) Refer to note 30 (b) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and 
equipment.
(ii) Capital work-in-progress mainly includes building under construction and plant and machinery in the process of 
installation.
(iii) Gross additions to capital work-in-progress and transfers to property, plant and equipment are as follows:
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Capital work-in-progress
As at  
December 31, 2024
As at  
December 31, 2023
Opening carrying value 
 310.25  
 
 251.43
Additions 
876.10  
 1,007.53 
Transfers to property, plant and equipment 
(658.27) 
 (948.71)
Closing carrying value 
 528.08  
 310.25 
(a)  Aging of Capital work-in-progress:
As at December 31, 2023
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
(i) Projects in progress 
 281.04  
 23.72  
5.49 
 -    
310.25
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
281.04 
23.72 
5.49 
 -    
310.25
As at December 31, 2024
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
(i) Projects in progress 
 337.16  
 173.51  
15.52 
 1.89  
528.08
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
Total 
337.16 
173.51 
15.52 
 1.89  
528.08
(b)  There are no assets under capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan.
Particulars 
Particulars 
Particulars 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
239
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
4 
Right-of-use assets
                       Particulars  
Leasehold land 
Buildings 
Total
Gross carrying amount as at January 1, 2023 
 
265.09 
50.38 
315.47 
Additions  
 
- 
13.71 
13.71 
Disposals 
 
 - 
(12.21) 
(12.21)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 
265.09 
51.88 
316.97 
Accumulated depreciation as at January 1, 2023 
 
22.61 
23.78 
46.39 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 
2.81 
10.73 
13.54 
Disposals 
 
- 
(12.21) 
(12.21)
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
 
25.42 
22.30 
47.72 
Net carrying amount as at December 31, 2023 
239.67 
29.58 
269.25 
 
 
 
 
 
                        Particulars  
Leasehold land 
Buildings 
Total 
Gross carrying amount as at January 1, 2024 
 265.09  
 51.88  
 316.97  
Additions 
 59.64  
 13.77  
 73.41  
Disposals 
 -    
 (7.28) 
 (7.28) 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 324.73  
 58.37  
 383.10  
Accumulated depreciation as at January 1, 2024 
 25.42  
 22.30 
 47.72  
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
 3.02  
 12.46  
 15.48  
Disposals 
 -    
 (7.28) 
 (7.28) 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
 28.44  
 27.48  
 55.92  
Net carrying amount as at December 31, 2024 
 296.29  
 30.89  
 327.18  
Details of Leases : The Group’s leasing arrangements include land and building for oﬃce premises and service 
stations. Leasehold land mainly pertains to manufacturing plant located at Shirwal. Rental contracts for oﬃce 
premises and service stations are typically made for ﬁxed periods of 3 to 15 years, but have extension options. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Amount recognised in the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss
 
Note 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
26 
3.30 
 
2.98 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets  
27 
15.48 
 
13.54 
Expenses related to short term leases (included in   
28 
7.88 
 
10.44 
Miscellaneous expenses in Other expenses)
The total cash outﬂow for the year ended December 31, 2024 for leases is INR 22.95 million (December 31, 2023: 
INR 23.59 million). 
 
(ii) Extension and Termination option : 
Extension and termination options are included in a number of  lease contracts. These terms are used to maximise 
operational ﬂexibility in terms of managing contracts. 
 
 
 
 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
240
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Computer software
Copyrights, patents, 
intellectual property rights 
and operating rights 
 Total
Computer software
Copyrights, patents, 
intellectual property rights 
and operating rights 
 Total
(a)  Aging of Intangible assets under development:
As at December 31, 2023
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
As at December 31, 2024
Less than
1 – 2
More than 
Total
2 – 3
 one year
year
3 years
year
(i) Projects in progress 
9.49 
8.99 
- 
- 
18.48 
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-   
 
Total 
9.49 
8.99 
- 
- 
18.48 
5 
Other Intangible assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross carrying amount 
 
as at January 1, 2023 
- 
118.97 
118.97
 
Additions 
181.81 
24.25 
206.06
 
Disposals 
- 
(3.42) 
(3.42)
 
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
181.81 
139.80 
321.61
 
Accumulated Amortisation
 
Balance as at January 1, 2023 
- 
101.92 
101.92
 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
1.25 
11.61 
12.86
 
Disposals 
- 
(3.41) 
(3.41)
 
Balance as at December 31, 2023 
1.25 
110.12 
111.37
 
Net carrying amount 
 
as at December 31, 2023 
180.56 
29.68 
210.24
 
Gross carrying amount 
 
as at January 1, 2024 
181.81 
139.80 
321.61  
 
Additions 
- 
10.66 
10.66  
 
Disposals 
- 
(0.88) 
(0.88) 
 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
181.81 
149.58 
331.39  
 
Accumulated Amortisation
 
Balance as at January 1, 2024 
1.25 
110.12 
111.37  
 
Charge for the year (Refer note 27) 
12.60 
15.58 
28.18  
 
Disposals 
- 
(0.88) 
(0.88) 
 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 
13.85 
124.82 
138.67  
 
Net carrying amount 
 
as at December 31, 2024 
167.96 
24.76 
192.72  
(i) Projects in progress 
13.75  
 - 
- 
 -    
13.75
(ii) Projects temporarily suspended 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
Total 
13.75 
- 
- 
 -    
13.75
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
241
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
6(a) 
Investments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Investment in associate
 
KSB MIL Controls Ltd. - 735,000 
 
878.28 
 
795.36 
 
equity shares (December 31, 2023 - 
 
735,000 equity shares) 
 
of INR 10 each fully paid 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment in equity instruments of  
 
0.40 
0.40
 
other entities Mula Pravara Electric Co - operative 
 
Society Ltd. - 15,995  equity shares 
 
(December 31, 2023 - 15,995 equity shares) 
 
of INR 25 each fully paid 
 
Total (unquoted investments) 
 
878.68 
 
795.76 
 
Less : Aggregate amount of provision  
 
(0.40) 
(0.40)
 
for impairment  in the value of investments  
 
 
Total Investments 
 
878.28 
 
795.36 
 
(b) There are no assets under capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan.
(c) 
 Intangible assets under development 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening carrying value 
 
13.75 
   
- 
 
Additions 
 
15.39 
 
219.81 
 
Transfers to Intangible assets 
 
(10.66) 
 
(206.06)
 
Closing carrying value 
 
18.48 
13.75 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
242
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
6(b) 
Loans
 
 
 
As at 
Non-current
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Unsecured, considered good 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans to employees 
 
80.24 
 
 
73.91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
80.24 
73.91  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Unsecured, considered good 
 
Loans and advances to employees 
  
52.95 
 
 
27.96
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
52.95 
 
27.96
 
 
 
7 
Trade receivables
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Trade receivables 
  
5,946.98 
 
4,542.68 
 
Trade receivables from related parties (Refer note 32) 
795.39 
 
569.56
 
 
 
 6,742.37 
   
 
5,112.24
 
Less: Loss allowance* 
 
(220.50) 
 
(152.71)
 
 
Total 
 6,521.87 
  
4,959.53
 
Current portion 
 
 6,502.73 
   
4,917.19
 
Non-current portion 
 
 19.14 
 
42.34
 
 
 
 
Break-up of security details 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Trade receivables considered good - Unsecured 
6,521.87 
 
4,959.53 
 
Trade receivables - credit impaired 
 
220.50 
 
152.71 
 
 
 
6,742.37 
  
5,112.24
 
Less: Loss allowance* 
 
(220.50) 
 
(152.71)
 
 
Total 
6,521.87 
 
4,959.53 
 
*The net impact of change in loss allowance of INR 67.79 millions (December 31, 2023:- reversal of INR 56.29 
millions) has been included in Miscelleneous expenses (refer note 28) 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
243
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Aging of trade receivables
 
 
 
As at December 31, 2023
 
 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
Less than 6 months  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
6 months 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
Undisputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- considered good 
 1,812.36   2,883.69   126.51  
 64.55  
 18.68  
 53.74   4,959.53 
 
 
- which have signiﬁcant  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
  increase in credit risk
 
 
- credit impaired 
 -    
 1.81  
 1.09  
 55.74  
 23.52  
 15.05  
97.21
Disputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- considered good 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
- which have signiﬁcant  
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
   increase in credit risk
 
 
- credit impaired 
 -    
 -    
 3.60  
 0.35  
 1.81  
 49.74  
 55.50 
 
 
                              Total 
 1,812.36   2,885.50   131.20  
 120.64  
 44.01  
 118.53   5,112.24 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2024
 
 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
Less than 6 months  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
6 months 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
Undisputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  considered good 
 1,613.36   4,127.71   424.27  
 275.38  
 30.50  
 50.65   6,521.87 
 
 
-  which have signiﬁcant   
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
   increase in credit risk
 
 
-  credit impaired 
 -    
 -    
 1.00  
 67.14  
 40.06  
 45.70  
 153.90 
 
Disputed trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  considered good 
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
-  which have signiﬁcant   
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
 
  increase in credit risk
 
 
- credit impaired 
 -    
 1.10  
 -    
 16.33  
 4.97  
 44.20  
 66.60 
 
 
                              Total 
1,613.36   4,128.81   425.27  
 358.85  
 75.53  
 140.55   6,742.37 
8 (a) 
 Cash and  cash equivalents  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 In current accounts 
 
345.80 
 
191.78 
 
 In EEFC accounts 
 
313.09 
 
283.28
 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months 
300.00 
 
720.00
 
Cash on hand 
 
 
0.12 
0.22 
 
  
Total 
 
959.01 
1,195.28  
 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
244
8 (b)  Bank balances other than 8 (a) above  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
 
As at 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed deposits* 
  
2,268.00 
  
 1,542.96
 
In earmarked accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
Unpaid dividend accounts 
 
 7.67 
 
7.44 
 
 
Total 
2,275.67 
 
1,550.40
 
*Includes ` 500.70 million (December 31, 2023: ` 988.44 million) held as lien by bank against credit facilities.  
 
9 
Other ﬁnancial assets 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-current 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Unsecured, considered good
 
Security deposits  
 
77.72 
  
42.28
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed deposits with balance maturity more than one year* 
0.26  
-
    
Unsecured, considered doubtful 
 
Security deposits 
  
5.30 
 
5.30 
 
 
 
83.28 
47.58 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful security deposits 
(5.30) 
 
 (5.30)
 
 
Total 
 77.98  
 
42.28 
 
*Includes  0.26 million (December 31, 2023: Nil ) held as lien by bank against credit facilities. 
 
 
`
 
Current 
 
As at 
 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023
 
Interest accrued on deposits with banks 
 
94.36 
 
63.41 
 
Derivative asset 
 
- 
 
0.54 
 
Others* 
 
22.33 
  
50.80
 
 
Total 
116.69 
 
114.75 
 
*Others include export incentives and GST rebate receivable 
 
 
 
10 
 Inventories  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Raw materials (includes in transit INR 97.6 million; 
 
December 31, 2023: INR 104.2 million) 
 
2,284.32 
 
2,670.49 
 
Work-in-progress 
 
2,949.68 
 
2,719.16 
 
Finished goods (includes in transit INR 259.19 million; 
 
December 31, 2023: INR 192.15 million)  
931.89 
 
774.98 
 
Stock-in-trade 
 
177.34 
 
184.83 
 
Stores and spares 
 
62.53 
 
71.14 
 
Loose tools 
 
22.47 
 
5.74 
 
 
 Total 
6,428.23 
 
6,426.34 
 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is disclosed in Note 22, 23 and 24. The cost of 
inventories recognised as an expense include write-down of inventories of  ` 90.41 million (December 31, 2023: 
` 124.76 million) and reversal of write-down of inventories of ` 92.59 million (December 31, 2023: ` 189.30 
million). 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
245
11 
Other non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Capital advances 
 
116.41 
  
130.73  
 
Advances other than capital advances
 
Prepaid expenses 
  
28.70 
  
13.43
 
Balances with government authorities
 
Considered good 
 
199.07 
199.07
 
Considered doubtful 
 
- 
 -
 
  
 
199.07
 
 
199.07  
 
Less: Provision for doubtful balances 
  
- 
 
- 
 
 
 
199.07 
  
 199.07
 
 
 Total 
344.18 
 
343.23 
12 
Other current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
 
As at 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Prepaid expenses 
  
 32.45
 
 
 
23.69  
 
Balances with government authorities  
 
 
 
 
 
Considered good 
 
 68.74 
 
45.50
 
Considered doubtful 
 
28.65 
28.65
 
 
 
 97.39 
   
74.15 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful balances  
 
(28.65) 
 
(28.65)
 
 
 
68.74 
45.50
 
Others* 
 
 
 
 
 
Considered good 
 
 600.62
 
 
360.24 
 
Considered doubtful 
 
 11.59
 
 
11.59 
 
 
  
612.21
 
 
371.83 
 
Less: Provision for doubtful balances 
 
(11.59) 
 
(11.59)
 
 
 
600.62 
 
360.24
 
 
 Total 
701.81 
429.43
 
*Others mainly include advances paid to suppliers which would be subsequently settled against purchases. 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
246
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
13 (a) Deferred tax assets (net) 
 
 
 
 
The balance of deferred tax comprises temporary diﬀerences attributable to: 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023 
 
Deferred tax assets
 
Provision for compensated absences, gratuity,  
129.75 
 
112.51 
 
superannuation and  long service award
 
Provision for loss allowance on trade and other receivables 
67.06 
 
50.00 
 
Fair value loss on derivative instruments 
0.31 
   
- 
 
Lease Liabilities 
8.65 
 
8.14 
 
Others (including allowances on payment basis) 
88.88 
 
91.05 
 
 
294.65 
261.70
 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Impact of diﬀerence between income tax depreciation  
 
 
 
 
and depreciation in ﬁnancial reporting  
95.59  
  
 76.27
 
Right of Use Assets 
7.77 
 
7.44 
 
Fair value gain on derivative instruments 
- 
 
0.14 
 
Unremitted earnings of associate 
214.12 
193.25
 
 
317.48
 
 
277.10 
 
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) (net)
(22.83)
 
 
(15.40) 
 
Changes in Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) in Statement of Proﬁt and Loss including Other Comprehensive 
Income [ credited / (charged) during the year ] 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended 
 
Year Ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Provision for compensated absences, gratuity, 
 
superannuation and  long service award 
17.24 
 
6.14 
 
Provision for loss allowance on trade and other receivables 
17.06 
 
(14.98)
 
Impact of diﬀerence between income tax depreciation and 
 
depreciation in ﬁnancial reporting  
(19.32) 
 
(4.00)
 
Fair value of derivative instruments 
0.45 
 
(0.69)
 
Lease Liabilities 
0.51 
 
0.89 
 
Right of Use Assets 
(0.33) 
  
0.75
 
Unremitted earnings of associate 
(20.87) 
 
(13.52)
 
Others 
(2.17) 
  
22.89
 
                                                                               Total 
 
(7.43) 
(2.52) 
13 (b) Income taxes 
 
 
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 are:
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss  
 
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Current income tax  
 
-   Current tax on proﬁt for the current year 
825.48 
 
713.15 
 
-   Adjustments for current tax of prior periods 
(10.41) 
 
8.47
 
 
815.07 
 
721.62
 
Deferred tax 
16.68 
 
(5.46)
 
Total tax expense reported in the 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
831.75 
 
716.16
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
247
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Other comprehensive income 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Deferred tax relating to remeasurement of  
9.25 
 
(7.98)
 
post employment beneﬁt obligations 
 
Deﬀerred tax credit/ (charge) to Other comprehensive income 
9.25 
 
 
(7.98)
 
Movement in income tax liabilities / (assets) (net) 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening balance  [payable/ (receivable)] 
(185.07) 
 
(210.77)
 
Add : Current tax payable (including tax for prior period) 
815.07 
 
721.62 
 
Less : Taxes paid (including tax paid for prior period,  
(667.47) 
 
(695.92)
 
          net of refunds)
 
Closing balance [payable/ (receivable)] 
(37.47) 
 
(185.07)
 
Income Tax assets (net) 
(112.17) 
 
(185.07)
 
Current tax liabilities (net) 
74.70 
    
- 
 
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting proﬁt multiplied by statutory income tax rate : 
 
 
Year ended 
 
Year ended
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023
 
Accounting proﬁt before tax 
3,306.50 
 
2,803.49
 
Tax at statutory income tax rate of 25.17%  (2023: 25.17%) 
 
832.18 
705.58 
 
Tax eﬀect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) 
 
in calculating taxable income 
 
-  Dividend Income 
(11.93) 
 
(9.90)
 
-  Donations 
11.63 
 
10.07 
 
-  Other items 
10.28 
 
1.94 
 
Adjustments for current-tax of prior periods 
 
(10.41) 
8.47 
 
Income tax expense 
831.75 
716.16
14 (a) Equity share capital 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Authorised equity share capital :
 
20,00,00,000 Equity shares of INR 2 each* 
 
(December 31, 2023 : 20,00,00,000 Equity 
 
shares of INR 2 each) 
 
400.00 
  
400.00
 
 
Total 
400.00 
 
 
400.00 
 
Issued, subscribed and paid up :
 
17,40,39,220 Equity shares of INR 2 each*  
 
(December 31, 2023 : 17,40,39,220 Equity 
 
shares of INR 2 each) 
 
348.08 
 
348.08 
 
 
Total 
348.08 
 
 
348.08 
 
(i)  
Reconciliation of number of equity shares 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year 
17,40,39,220 
17,40,39,220
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
248
 
 
*The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on April 26, 2024 recommended the sub-
division/split of 1 (One) fully paid-up equity share having a face value of  10 each into 5 (Five) fully paid-up 
`
equity shares having a face value of  2 each by alteration of capital clause of the Memorandum of Association 
`
(MOA) subject to the approval of Members of the Company. Further, the Board of Directors approved the 
Record Date for Split/Sub-division of Equity Shares as April 1, 2024. The Members of the Company approved 
the sub-division/Split of 1 (One) fully paid up equity share of  10 each into 5 (Five) fully paid-up equity shares 
`
of  2 each through an ordinary resolution passed in the Annual General Meeting held on June 27, 2024 with 
`
the requisite majority. The voting results were declared on June 29, 2024.
 
 
Consequent to this, the authorised share capital comprises 20,00,00,000 equity shares having a face value 
of  2 each aggregating to 40,00,00,000, and the paid-up capital comprises 17,40,39,220 equity shares 
`
having a face value of  2 each aggregating to 34,80,78,440. The impact of this has been considered in the 
`
ﬁnancial statement. 
 
(ii)  Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares
 
 
There is only one class of shares referred to as equity shares having a face value of ` 2 per share. Each 
equity shareholder is entitled to one vote per share. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is 
subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting except in case of interim 
dividend. In the event of liquidation of the Group, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive 
remaining assets of the Group, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in 
proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  Shares of the Company held by Ultimate Holding Company / Holding Company and/ or their Subsidiaries/ 
Associates
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
7,05,54,240
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. (Holding Company) 
 
 
 
7,05,54,240  
 
(iv) Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity shares in the 
Company 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of the shareholder 
As at December 31, 2024 
 
 
As at December 31, 2023 
 
 
% holding 
No. of shares 
% holding 
No. of shares
 
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. 
40.54% 
7,05,54,240 
 
40.54% 
7,05,54,240
 
 
Industrial & Prudential Investment Co. Ltd. 
21.55% 
3,75,00,000 
  
21.55% 
3,75,00,000
 
(v)  Details of shareholding of promoters:
 
 
Name of the shareholder 
  As at 
 
   As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
No. of  
%  
%  
No. of  
% 
%  
 
 
shares 
holding change  
shares 
holding 
change 
 
 
 
 
during 
 
 
during
 
 
 
 
the year 
 
 
 
the year
 
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. 
7,05,54,240 40.54% 
- 7,05,54,240 40.54% 
-   
 
 
Vikram Swarup Family Trust 
3,02,000 
0.17% 
- 
3,02,000 
0.17% 
-   
 
 
Vikram Swarup 
2,00,000 
0.11% 
- 
 
2,00,000 
0.11% 
-  
 
 
Gaurav Swarup 
1,70,000 
0.10% 
- 
 
1,70,000 
0.10% 
- 
 
 
Bindu Vikram Swarup 
80,000 
0.05% 
- 
80,000 
0.05% 
-
 
 
Parul Swarup 
15,290 
0.01% 
- 
 
15,290 
0.01% 
-  
 
 
Paharpur Cooling Towers Limited 
72,50,000 
4.17% 
- 
  
72,50,000 
4.17% 
- 
 
 
TKIL Industries Pvt Ltd* 
54,00,000 
3.10% 
- 
   
54,00,000 
0.00% 
-
 
 
Industrial & Prudential Investment Co. Ltd. 3,75,00,000 21.55% 
- 
3,75,00,000 21.55% 
-   
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
249
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
 
*During the reporting period, Paharpur Cooling Towers Limited acquired shares in TKIL Industries Private 
Limited (formerly known as ThyssenKrupp Industries India Private Limited), which has resulted in TKIL 
Industries Private Limited (formerly known as ThyssenKrupp Industries India Private Limited) becoming a 
promoter of the Company. It is pertinent to note that there has been no change in the number of shares held 
by either Paharpur Cooling Towers Limited or TKIL Industries Private Limited (formerly known as 
ThyssenKrupp Industries India Private Limited) in the Company, and the overall shareholding structure in 
the Company remains unchanged.
 
(vi)  There were neither shares bought back nor allotted either as fully paid bonus shares or under any contract 
without payment being received in cash, during the ﬁve years immediately preceding December 31, 2024. 
 
 
14 (b) Other equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
Retained earnings 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening balance 
11,581.59 
 
9,993.66
 
Proﬁt for the year 
 2,474.75 
   
2,087.33
 
 
14,056.34 
 
12,080.99
 
Less: Dividend paid 
(609.14) 
 
(522.12)
 
Items of other comprehensive income recognised 
 
directly in retained earnings
 
Remeasurement of post-employment beneﬁt 
 
obligations (net of tax) 
(31.20) 
  
22.72
 
Closing Balance 
13,416.00 
 
11,581.59 
 
Total Retained earnings 
13,416.00 
11,581.59 
 
(ii) 
Other reserves 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Capital reserve [Refer note (i) below] 
0.09
 
 
0.09 
 
Capital redemption reserve [Refer note (i) below] 
0.10 
 
0.10 
 
Securities premium [Refer note (i) below] 
3.20 
  
3.20
 
General reserve [Refer note (ii) below] 
1,085.97
 
 
1,085.97  
 
Amalgamation reserve [Refer note (i) below] 
0.06 
 
0.06 
 
Total Other reserves 
1,089.42
 
 
1,089.42 
 
Total Other equity 
14,505.42 
 
 
12,671.01
 
Nature and purpose of Other reserves: 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
These reserves pertain to reserve arising on amalgamations in the past, which is required to be statutorily 
maintained and cannot be distributed to the shareholders.
 
(ii) This reserve represents amounts transferred from retained earnings in earlier years as per the requirements 
of the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956. The reserve is a free reserve. 
 
 
 
15 
Lease liabilities 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Non-current lease liabilities 
 
 
21.67 
21.02 
 
Current lease liabilities 
 
 
12.69 
11.34 
 
 
 
 
Total 
34.36 
 
32.36
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
250
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Movement in lease liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening balance 
 
 
32.36 
28.82 
 
Add: Additions during the year (Refer note 4)  
13.77 
 
13.71
 
Add: Interest expense on lease liabilities (Refer note 26) 
 
3.30 
2.98 
 
Less: Repayment of lease liabilities 
 
(15.07) 
 
(13.15)
 
Closing balance 
 
34.36 
32.36
16 
Trade payables 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
 
small enterprises 
 347.31 
  
473.09
 
  
 
 
 
347.31 
473.09 
 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 
(i)  Related parties (Refer note 32) 
 
 
652.40 
772.06 
 
(ii)  Others 
 
 2,753.68 
   
2,187.40 
 
 
 
 
 
3,406.08 
  
 
2,959.46
 
 
 
 
Total  
 3,753.39 
3,432.55 
 
Aging of trade payables
 
 
 
 
 
As at December 31, 2023
 
 
Unbilled 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
 
Less than  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
 
Undisputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
 
 - 
 256.78 
216.31 
- 
- 
- 
473.09
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
834.38 
948.54 1,084.05 
29.10 
16.35 
46.46 2,958.88 
 
 
Disputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.58 
0.58 
 
 
 
 
Total 
834.38 1,205.32 1,300.36 
29.10 
16.35 
47.04 3,432.55 
 
 
  
 
 
 As at December 31, 2024
 
 
Unbilled 
Not due 
Outstanding for following periods from the due date
 
 
 
 
Less than  
1-2  
2-3  
More than  Total
 
 
 
 
1 year 
years 
years 
3 years
 
 
Undisputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
- 
266.01 
81.30 
- 
- 
- 
347.31   
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
1,324.39 1,286.41 
711.92 
16.84 
9.51 
56.43 3,405.50
 
 
Disputed trade payables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Micro enterprises and  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-   
 
 
 
small enterprises
 
 
 
Others 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.58 
0.58 
 
 
 
 
Total 
1,324.39 1,552.42 
793.22 
16.84 
9.51 
57.01 3,753.39 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
251
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
  
 
Details of dues to micro and small enterprises as deﬁned under the MSMED Act, 2006
 
The Group has certain dues to suppliers registered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006  
(‘MSMED Act’). The information as required to be disclosed under MSMED Act has been determined to the extent such 
parties have been identiﬁed on the basis of information available with the Group.
 
 
 
 
December 31, December 31,
 
 
 
 
 2024 
 2023
a) 
i) The principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier  
346.53 
  
471.77
 
 
as at the year end
 
ii) The interest due remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the year end thereon 
0.35 
  
0.54
b) 
The amount of interest paid under MSMED Act, 2006 along with the  
3.89 
 
7.15
 
amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
 
during the year 
 
c) 
The amount of payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
330.72 
 
656.22
 
during the year. 
d) 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making  
0.43 
 
0.78
 
payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
 
but without adding the interest speciﬁed under the MSMED Act, 2006 
 
e) 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid as at the year end 
0.78 
  
1.32
f) 
The amount of further interest due and payable even in the succeeding years,  
0.78 
 
1.32
 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small 
 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance of a deductible expenditure under 
 
Section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
 
17 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities-current 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Security deposits 
 
133.85 
 
119.74
 
Unclaimed dividend 
 
7.67 
 
7.44 
 
Payable for purchase of property, plant and equipment 
188.78 
 
257.46
 
Derivative liability 
 
0.86 
 -
 
Dealer incentive schemes 
 
447.43 
 
387.49
 
Payable to employees 
 
176.85 
  
152.89
 
  
 
 
Total  
955.44 
 
925.02 
18 (a) Provisions - Non-current  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at  
As at
 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023
 
Provision for employee beneﬁts (Refer note 31) 
  
444.00 
339.13 
 
 
97.87 
Provision for warranty [Refer note (ii) below] 
  
125.82
  
 
 
 
 
437.00  
 
Total 
569.82
     (b)  Provisions - Current
 
 
 
 
As at  
 
 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023
 
Provision for employee beneﬁts [Refer note (i) below] 
 
367.10 
349.60 
 
Provision for warranty [Refer note (ii) below] 
 
 
51.49 
47.96 
 
Provision for litigations / contingencies [Refer note (iii) below] 
139.93 
 
139.93 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
558.52 
537.49 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
252
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Notes : 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)  Includes provision for employee bonus and incentives. For details of gratuity, superannuation, 
compensated absences and long service award, refer note 31.
 
(ii)  The Group oﬀers warranty for its products. Provision for warranty is computed as a percentage of sales 
based on the past trends observed. The time value of money is considered to be not material and hence the 
provisions are not discounted. It is expected that this expenditure will be incurred over the contractual 
warranty period.
 
(iii) Provision is towards contingencies in respect of disputed claims against the Group, the quantum of outﬂow 
and timing of which is presently unascertainable. 
 
 
 
 
Movement in provisions
 
 
 
 
Provision for warranty
Provision for litigations / 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contingencies
 
As at January 1, 2023
 
Balance at the beginning 
 
  
 127.72
139.93
 
Charged to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss
 
Provision recognised (net of reversal) 
 
   
76.16
- 
 
Amounts used during the year 
 
   
(58.05)
- 
 
As at December 31, 2023 
 
145.83
139.93  
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for warranty Provision for litigations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/ contingencies
 
As at January 1, 2024
 
Balance at the beginning 
 145.83 
139.93  
 
Charged to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss
 
Provision recognised (net of reversal) 
100.95 
-   
 
Amounts used during the year 
(69.47) 
-  
 
As at December 31, 2024 
177.31 
139.93  
 
19 
Other current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Statutory dues payable 
  
 
203.34 
207.67 
 
Advances from customers* 
 
2,454.38 
  
2,050.85
 
 
 
 
Total 
2,657.72 
 
2,258.52 
 
*Notes: 
 
i) During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Group have recognised INR 394.85 million (December 31, 
2023: INR 667.26 million) as revenue from the Advances from customer outstanding as at the beginning of 
the year.
 
ii)  Advances from customers have increased in current year mainly on account of advance received during the 
year ended December 31, 2024 as per the contractual terms with the customers. 
 
 
 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
253
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 20 
Revenue from operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended 
Year ended
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 
Sale of products 
  
24,835.65 
22,067.08 
 
Sale of services 
 
364.91 
249.91 
 
 
 
 
 
25,200.56 
 
 
22,316.99 
 
Other operating revenue
 
Sale of scrap 
 
 57.43 
59.97
 
Export incentives 
  
72.87 
 
95.42
 
 
 
 
 
130.30 
  
 
155.39
 
Revenue from operations 
 
25,330.86 
22,472.38 
 
Notes: 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Disaggregated revenue information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below presents disaggregated revenue from contracts with customers for the year ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. The Company believes that this disaggregation best depicts 
how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash ﬂows are aﬀected by industry, 
market and other economic factors.
 
Geographical location of customer 
 
Year ended  
Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Within India 
 
21,700.34 
19,317.91 
 
Outside India 
 
3,500.22 
2,999.08 
 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 
25,200.56 
22,316.99  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment  
 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Pumps 
 
 
20,972.33 
18,838.22 
 
Valves 
 
 
4,228.23 
3,478.77
 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 
25,200.56 
 
22,316.99
 
 
 
 
(ii) Reconciliation of revenue recognized with contract price : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Contract price 
 
25,831.45  
 22,876.33 
 
Adjustments for discounts, incentives,  
 
 
liquidated damages 
 
(630.89) 
 (559.34)
 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
 
25,200.56  
 22,316.99
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
254
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
21 
Other income 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Interest income 
 
 
 
 
 
 - Interest income from ﬁnancials assets measured at amortised cost 
172.24 
126.89 
 
   - Others  
 
67.23 
36.38 
 
Sundry credit balances and provisions no longer required,  
- 
 
3.45
 
written back
 
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment  
6.32 
2.21 
 
and intangible assets
 
Net gain on foreign currency transactions and translations 
63.62 
58.81 
 
Fair value gain in derivative ﬁnancial instruments - 
- 
 
2.72
 
Miscellaneous income 
 
58.10 
92.91 
 
 
 
 
Total 
367.51 
 
 
323.37 
22 
Cost of materials consumed
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening stock of raw materials 
  
2,670.49 
 
1,671.97
 
Add: Purchases 
 
11,647.87 
11,687.49 
 
Less: Closing stock of raw materials 
 
2,284.32 
 
2,670.49
 
 
 
 
 
12,034.04 
10,688.97
23 
Purchases of stock-in -trade
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Purchases of stock-in-trade 
 
2,567.34 
 
1,907.05
 
 
 
 
Total 
2,567.34 
1,907.05 
24 
Change in inventories of ﬁnished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Opening inventory 
 
 
 
 
    
 
-  
Finished goods 
  
774.98 
 
867.69
    
 
-  
Work-in-progress 
 
2,719.16 
2,797.47
    
 
-  
Stock-in-trade 
 
184.83 
 
192.89
 
 
 
 
 
3,678.97 
  
3,858.05
 
Less: Closing inventory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  
Finished goods 
 
931.89 
774.98 
 
 
-  
Work-in-progress 
 
 
 
2,719.16  
2,949.68
 
 
-  
Stock-in-trade 
 
177.34 
184.83
 
 
 
 
 
4,058.91 
 
 
3,678.97 
 
Net change in inventories 
  
(379.94) 
179.08
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
255
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
25 
Employee beneﬁt expense 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Salaries and wages 
 
 2,715.01 
 
2,328.66
 
Contributions to provident and other funds 
 
185.72 
 
170.28
 
Staﬀ welfare expenses 
 
234.46 
 
197.89
 
 
 
 
Total 
3,135.19 
 
2,696.83
26 
Finance costs 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Interest and other ﬁnance charges 
 
 12.79 
41.33  
 
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Refer note 4)  
3.30 
2.98
 
Net interest expense on deﬁned beneﬁt  
 
11.08 
8.59 
 
obligations (Refer note 31)
 
 
 
 
Total 
27.17 
52.90 
27 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Depreciation of property, plant and  
 
 499.58 
 
470.38
 
equipment (Refer note 3)
 
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (Refer note 4)  
15.48 
 
13.54
 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Refer note 5)  
28.18 
12.86 
 
 
 
 
Total 
543.24 
 
496.78 
28 
Other expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Processing and machining charges 
 
987.07 
 
1,069.39
 
Stores consumed 
 
418.93 
483.66 
 
Tools consumed 
 
54.26 
 
40.42
 
Water, power and fuel 
 
227.39 
 
246.06
 
Sitework Charges 
 
382.02 
  
- 
 
Rates and taxes 
 
15.18 
14.22 
 
Insurance  
 
39.60 
 
37.88
 
Repairs and maintenance
 
 - Buildings 
 
40.43 
 
48.71
 
 - Machinery 
 
57.34 
60.14 
 
 - Others  
 
55.41 
59.34 
 
Travelling and conveyance 
 
171.92 
 
177.97
 
Packing and forwarding charges 
 
508.06 
 
497.33
 
(Net of recoveries-INR 39.48 million; December 31, 2023-INR 43.65 million)
 
Royalty charges 
 
379.50 
 
326.50
 
Trademark Charges 
 
28.23 
12.92 
 
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility [Refer note (i) below] 
46.20 
 
40.02
 
Fair value losses in derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
1.40 
   
-
 
Legal and professional fees 
 
84.34 
 
72.46
 
IT Services 
 
231.79 
 
190.60
 
Advertisements and catalogues 
 
122.26 
58.94 
 
Miscellaneous expenses 
 
747.56 
 
628.19
 
 
 
 
Total 
 4,598.89 
4,064.75 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
256
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
(i) 
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility  
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
39.03  
Contribution to KSB Care Charitable Trust 
 
46.20
 
Expenditure towards other CSR activities 
 
- 
-
 
 
0.99  
Administrative overheads  
 
1.32
 
 
 
 
 
40.02 
Total 
47.52
 
Gross amount required to be spent 
 
 
40.02 
by the Group during the year 
 
47.43
 
 
 
 
 
40.02  
Total 
47.43
 
Amount spent during the year on : 
 
 In cash 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
a. Construction/ acquisition of any asset 
 
- 
 
- 
 
b. On purposes other than (a) above 
 
47.52 
40.02
 
 
 
 
Total 
47.52 
40.02
 
Nature of CSR activities - Education, Skill development, Healthcare, Destitute care, Environment, Sanitation.
(ii) 
Payment to auditors (included in legal and professional fees) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Year ended
Year ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
December 31, 2024
 
As auditor 
 
 
 
 
Audit fee (Including limited review) 
 
3.10 
3.50 
 
In Other Capacities
 
Fees for other services 
 
0.80 
0.80 
 
 
0.53 
Reimbursement of expenses 
 
0.35
 
 
 
 
Total 
4.25 
4.83
29 
Earnings per equity share  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to the 
 
equity shareholders of the Company 
  
2,474.75 
2,087.33 
 
Weighted average number of equity shares 
 
 17,40,39,220 
17,40,39,220
 
Basic and Diluted Earnings per share (in `) 
 
14.22 
  
11.99
 
*The basic and diluted earnings per share is retrospectively adjusted for the share split in accordance with Ind 
AS 33 –Earnings per Share (Refer note 14).
30 
Contingencies and commitments
 
a) 
Contingent liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts 
125.30 
110.65  
 
 
Income tax 
 
549.13 
549.40
 
 
Goods and Services Tax, Excise and Service tax 
1,242.44 
1,207.27 
 
 
Others 
 
5.19 
 
4.90 
 
 
 
 
Total 
1,922.06 
 
1,872.22
 
b) 
Capital commitments 
 
 
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account (net of advances) and not 
provided for is  381.42 million (December 31, 2023:  405.66 million)
`
`
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
257
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
31 
Employee beneﬁt obligations
 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023 
 
Compensated absences (Refer note B) 
  
343.12 
297.58 
 
Non-current 
 
279.93 
242.19
 
Current 
 
 
63.19 
 
55.39
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long service award (Refer note C) 
 
35.07 
36.19
 
Non-current 
 
24.60 
12.41
 
Current 
 
 
10.47 
23.78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gratuity (Refer note D) 
 
177.60 
127.12 
 
Non-current 
 
129.40 
72.20 
 
Current 
 
 
48.20 
54.92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superannuation (Refer note E) 
 
20.07 
22.33 
 
Non-current 
 
10.07 
12.33 
 
Current 
 
 
10.00 
10.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Deﬁned contribution plan 
 
 
Contributions are made to provident fund at a ﬁxed percentage of employee's salary as per the regulations. The 
contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by the government. The obligation of the Group is 
limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. The expense 
recognised during the year towards contribution to provident fund is  119.71 million (December 31, 2023 -  107.46 
`
`
million). 
 
B 
Compensated absences 
 
 
The leave obligations cover the Group's liability for privilege leave and sick leave. The amount of provision made during 
the year is  86.98 million (December 31, 2023 -  32.61 million). The Group does not have an unconditional right to defer 
`
`
settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on the past experience, the Group does not expect payment of the 
entire amount of accrued leaves or availment of the entire number of accrued leaves by employees within twelve months 
and accordingly, amounts have been classiﬁed as current and non-current. 
 
C Long service award 
 
 
The Group award all the employees who complete 25 years of service in the Group and the Workmen employees who 
complete 20 or more years of service in the Group but unable to complete 25 years due to superannuation. The amount of 
provision made during the year is  5.83 million (December 31, 2023 -  9.22 million). 
`
`
 
 
Signiﬁcant estimates 
 
 
The signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions were as follows : 
 
 
  
As at December 31, 2024  
 
 
As at December 31, 2023 
 
 
Discount rate 
6.95% 
7.40%
 
 
Gold Inﬂation rate 
8.00% 
8.00%
 
 
Attrition rate 
8.00% 
7.00%
 
D Gratuity 
 
 
The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on 
retirement/termination is the employee's last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days to one 
month's salary multiplied for the number of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan. 
 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
258
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
(I) The amounts recognised in balance sheet and movements in the net beneﬁt obligation over the year are as follows :  
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets 
 
 
January 1, 2023 
940.17 
(839.80) 
100.37 
 
 
Current service cost 
 
59.91 
- 
59.91
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
68.58 
(61.26) 
7.32 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
128.49 
(61.26) 
67.23
 
 
Return on plan assets 
  
- 
- 
- 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
(29.41) 
- 
(29.41)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
(5.16) 
- 
(5.16)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
0.81 
- 
0.81
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
(33.76) 
- 
(33.76)
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
(6.72) 
(6.72)
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(62.81) 
62.81 
-   
 
 
December 31, 2023 
972.09 
(844.97) 
127.12 
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets  
 
 
January 1, 2024 
972.09 
(844.97) 
127.12 
 
 
Current service cost 
63.52 
- 
63.52 
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
72.09 
(62.66) 
9.43 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
135.61 
(62.66) 
72.95 
 
 
Return on plan assets 
- 
19.52 
19.52 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
(30.70) 
- 
(30.70)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
50.22 
- 
50.22 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
(6.60) 
- 
(6.60)
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
12.92 
19.52 
32.44 
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
(54.91) 
(54.91)
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(82.49) 
82.49 
-   
 
 
December 31, 2024 
1,038.13 
(860.53) 
177.60  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(II) The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows: 
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Present value of funded obligation 
1,038.13 
972.09 
 
 
Fair value of plan assets 
(860.53) 
(844.97)
 
 
Deﬁcit 
177.60 
127.12
 
(III) 
Signiﬁcant estimates 
 
 
 
The signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions were as follows : 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023 
 
 
Discount rate 
6.95% 
7.40%
 
 
Salary growth rate 
8.00% 
7.50%
 
 
Attrition rate 
8.00% 
7.00%
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
259
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
(IV) 
Sensitivity of actuarial assumptions 
 
 
 
The sensitivity of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
 
 
                                                                                                        Impact on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
 
 
                                                                                                       [Increase / (Decrease)]
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Discount rate
 
 
1 % increase 
(45.60) 
(46.77)
 
 
1 % decrease 
50.48 
51.78 
 
 
Salary growth rate
 
 
1 % increase 
52.77 
54.44
 
 
1 % decrease 
(49.88) 
(51.24)
 
 
Attrition rate
 
 
1 % increase 
(4.01) 
(2.01)
 
 
1 % decrease 
5.59 
2.67 
 
The above sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a 
change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to 
the assumption, the same method is used to calculate the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet. The methods 
and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous year. 
 
 
 
Projected beneﬁts payable from the fund in future years from the date of reporting:
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023 
 
 
Upto 1 year 
  
206.83 
 
164.14
 
 
Between 2 to 5 years 
  
506.06 
445.58 
 
 
Between 6 to 10 years 
 
435.53 
 
483.11
 
 
More than 10 years 
 
375.28 
425.56 
 
 
 
Total 
 1,523.70 
 
1,518.39
 
The weighted average duration of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is 5 years. (December 31, 2023: 5 years) 
 
 
 
(V) 
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Funds managed by insurer 
100% 
100%
 
 
The Group expects to contribute INR 48.20 million towards plan assets in the next 12 months.
E 
Superannuation
 
The Group provides for superannuation for employees qualifying speciﬁed eligibility criteria. The amount of 
superannuation payable on retirement/termination is computed on the basis of employee's category and 
number of years of service. The superannuation plan is a funded plan.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
260
(I) 
The amounts recognised in balance sheet and movements in the net beneﬁt obligation over the year are as follows :  
 
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets 
 
 
January 1, 2023 
28.72 
(11.26) 
17.46 
 
 
Current service cost 
1.57 
- 
1.57 
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
2.09 
(0.82) 
1.27 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
3.66 
(0.82) 
2.84
 
 
Return on plan assets 
 
- 
2.46 
2.46 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
(1.50) 
- 
(1.50)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
(0.12) 
- 
(0.12)
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
1.19 
- 
1.19
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
(0.43) 
2.46 
2.03
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
 
-  
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(3.63) 
3.63 
-  
 
 
December 31, 2023 
28.32 
(5.99) 
22.33 
 
 
Particulars 
Present value of  
Fair value of 
Net amount 
 
 
 
obligation 
plan assets  
 
 
January 1, 2024 
28.32 
(5.99) 
22.33  
 
 
Current service cost 
1.80 
- 
1.80 
 
 
Interest expense/(income) 
2.10 
(0.45) 
1.65 
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
 3.90 
(0.45) 
3.45 
 
 
Return on plan assets 
- 
- 
-
 
 
(Gain)/loss from experience changes 
3.46 
- 
3.46
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in ﬁnancial assumptions 
0.60 
- 
0.60 
 
 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 
0.23 
- 
0.23
 
 
Total amount recognised in 
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income 
4.29 
- 
4.29 
 
 
Employer contributions 
- 
(10.00) 
(10.00)
 
 
Beneﬁts paid 
(4.63) 
4.63 
-   
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 31.88 
(11.81) 
20.07  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows: 
 
(II) 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Present value of funded obligation 
31.88 
 
28.32
 
 
Fair value of plan assets 
(11.81) 
(5.99)
 
 
Deﬁcit 
20.07 
22.33
 
(III) 
Signiﬁcant estimates 
 
 
 
The signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions were as follows : 
 
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
December 31, 2023 
 
 
Discount rate 
6.95% 
7.40%
 
 
Attrition rate 
8.00% 
7.00%
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
261
 
(IV) 
Sensitivity of actuarial assumptions 
 
 
 
The sensitivity of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
 
 
                                                                                                        Impact on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
 
 
                                                                                                                    [Increase / (Decrease)]
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Discount rate
 
 
1 % increase 
 (1.26) 
(1.08)
 
 
1 % decrease 
 1.37 
1.17 
 
 
Attrition rate
 
 
1 % increase 
 0.19 
0.21
 
 
1 % decrease 
(0.26) 
(0.27)
 
 
The above sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the 
respective assumptions occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual 
change. It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When 
calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method is used to calculate the liability recognised 
in the Balance Sheet. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did 
not change compared to the previous year. 
 
 
 
 
 
Projected beneﬁts payable from the fund in future years from the date of reporting:
 
 
 
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023 
 
 
Upto 1 year 
  
8.75 
11.08 
 
 
Between 2 to 5 years 
  
18.27 
 
11.33
 
 
Between 6 to 10 years 
 
11.34 
12.22 
 
 
More than 10 years 
 
6.02 
5.34
 
 
 
Total 
44.38 
39.97 
 
 
The weighted average duration of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is 4 years. (December 31, 2023: 4 years) 
 
 
(V) 
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
 
 
Particulars  
As at 
As at
 
 
 
December 31, 2024  
 December 31, 2023
 
 
Funds managed by insurer 
100% 
100%
 
 
The Group expects to contribute INR 10 million towards plan assets in the next 12 months.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk exposure for the above plans 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most signiﬁcant of which 
are detailed below: 
 
 
 
 
(i)  
Asset-liability mismatch risk 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk which arises if there is a mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities. In managing 
the plan assets, Board of Trustees reviews and manages these risks associated with the funded plan. Each 
year, the Board of Trustees reviews the level of funding in the gratuity plan. Such a review includes asset - 
liability matching strategy and investment risk management policy (which includes contributing to plans 
that invest in risk averse markets).  
 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
262
 
a. 
Ultimate Parent Entity / Ultimate Controlling Party  
 
 
 
 
KSB Stiftung and Kuborth Stiftungs GmbH 
 
 
 
 
b. 
Parent Entities 
 
 
 
 
 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. (Direct parent)  
 
 
 
 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA (previously KSB AG) (next most senior parent that produces Consolidated 
Financials for public use) 
 
 
c. 
Associate 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
d. 
Other Related Parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year:  
 
 
 
 
Fellow Subsidiaries: 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
KSB S.A.S France  
 
 
 
 
2 
KSB Inc., USA 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
KSB Pumps and Valves Pty Ltd South Africa 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
KSB Australia Pty Limited  
 
 
 
 
5 
KSB Chile S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
KSB Limited, Hongkong 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
KSB Pumps Co.Ltd., Thailand 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
P.T. KSB., Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
KSB Taiwan Co. Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
10 KSB Korea Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
11 KSB de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
 
 
 
 
 
12 REEL s.r.l. 
 
 
 
 
 
13 KSB Manufacturing B.V. (Earlier know as DP Industries B.V., Netherland)  
 
 
 
 
14 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
15 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy 
 
 
 
 
 
16 KSB Panama S.A.  
 
 
 
(ii)  
Asset volatility 
 
 
 
 
 
All plan assets are maintained in a trust fund managed by a public sector insurer i.e., LIC of India. LIC has 
a sovereign guarantee and has been providing consistent and competitive returns over the years. 
The Group has opted for a traditional fund wherein all assets are invested primarily in risk averse 
markets. The Group has no control over the management of funds but this option provides a high level of 
safety for the total corpus. A single account is maintained for both the investment and claim settlement 
and hence, 100% liquidity is ensured. 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  
Discount rate risk 
 
 
 
 
 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated using discount rate based on Government 
bonds. The decrease in the bond yield will increase the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation, however the same will 
be partially oﬀset by an increase in value of plan assets. 
 
 
 
 
(iv)  
Future salary escalation risk 
 
 
 
 
 
The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in salary of the plan participants will increase the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligation.
32 
Disclosure pursuant to Ind AS 24 'Related party transactions':
 
A 
Name of the related parties and nature of relationship 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
263
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
 
17 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., China  
 
 
 
 
18 KSB Finland Oy  
 
 
 
 
19 KSB ITUR SPAIN SA 
 
 
 
 
 
20 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., India  
 
 
 
 
21 GIW Industries Inc., USA  
 
 
 
 
22 KSB Middle East FZE, Dubai 
 
 
 
 
 
23 KSB Service LLC, UAE 
 
 
 
 
 
24 KSB Polska Sp. z o.o, Poland 
 
 
 
 
 
25 KSB Singapore (Asia Paciﬁc) PTE Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
26 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd. 
 
 
 
 
 
27 KSB Service Egypt LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
28 KSB Sverige AB  
 
 
 
 
29 KSB Service GmbH, Germany 
 
 
 
 
 
30 KSB New Zealand Limited  
 
 
 
 
31 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear 
 
 
 
 
 
32 KSB Vietnam Company Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
33 KSB Philippines  
 
 
 
 
34 KSB Colombia SAS 
 
 
 
 
 
35 KSB-Pompa, Armatür Sanayi 
 
 
 
 
 
36 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d. 
 
 
 
 
 
37 PT. KSB Sales Indonesia 
 
 
 
 
 
38 KSB Zambia Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
39 KSB Pumps and Valves Limited, Kenya 
 
 
 
 
 
40 KSB Peru S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
41 GIW Industries, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
42 KSB Pumps and Valves Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
43 KSB Cerpadla a  
 
 
 
 
44 KSB Argentina S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
45 KSB Pumps Company Ltd.  
 
 
 
 
46 KSB Pumps Inc.  
 
 
 
 
47 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co.,Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
48 KSB Industries BV 
 
 
 
 
 
49 SISTO Armaturen S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
50 KSB BRASIL LTDA. 
 
 
 
 
 
51 KSB Ltd. Japan  
 
 
 
 
52 OOO KSB Russia 
 
 
 
 
53 KSB Pompes Et Robinetteries S.A.R.L 
 
 
 
 
 
54 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH 
 
 
 
 
 
55 KSB Belgium S.A. 
 
 
 
 
56 KSB (Schweiz) AG 
 
 
 
 
 
57 KSB-PUMPY+ARMATURY s.r.o., koncern 
 
 
 
 
 
58 KSB Algérie Eurl  
 
 
32   A Name of the related parties and nature of relationship (continued): 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
264
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
 
 
59 KSB Pumpy Armatury s.r.o.,koncern  
 
 
 
 
60 KSB Pompa Armatur Sanayi ve Ticaret AS Turkey 
 
 
 
 
 
61 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co.Ltd 
 
 
 
 
 
62 KSB Bombas e Valvulas,SA  
 
 
 
 
63 Kagema Industrieausrestungen GmbH 
 
 
 
 
e. 
Key Management Personnel: 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Mr. Rajeev Jain (Managing Director) 
 
 
2 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
 
 
3 
Mr. D. N. Damania (Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
4 
Mr. Pradip Shah  (Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
5 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
 
 
6 
Mr. V. K. Vishwanathan 
 
 
7 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
 
 
8 
Ms. Sharmila Roychowdhury 
 
 
9 
Mr. Vishal Kampani (Appointed w.e.f. 1st Oct 24) 
 
 
10 Mr. Ulhas Yargop (Appointed w.e.f. 1st Oct 24) 
 
 
 
 
f. 
Individuals having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the enterprise 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
 
 
 
 
g. 
Relatives of individuals having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the enterprise  
 
 
 
 
1 
Mrs. Gyan M Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Vikram Swarup Family Trust 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Mr. Vikram Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Mrs. Bindu Swarup 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Mrs. Parul Swarup 
 
 
 
 
h. 
Enterprises over which individuals having signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the reporting enterprise exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence   
 
 
 
 
1 
The Industrial & Prudential Investment Co. Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Paharpur Cooling Towers Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
KSB Care Charitable Trust  
 
 
 
 
4 
TKIL Industries Private Limited (Formerly known as Thyssenkrupp Industries India Private 
Limited) (w.e.f. 8th May 24) 
 
 
 
 
i.  
Post employment beneﬁt Trusts  
 
 
 
 
1 
KSB Pumps Employee's Gratuity Trust 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Grade-O-Castings Employee's Gratuity Trust  
 
 
 
 
3 
KSB Pumps (Core Employee's) Superannuation Trust 
 
 
 
32   A Name of the related parties and nature of relationship (continued): 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
265
Purchase of goods 
525.93 
107.41 
208.13 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
841.47 
 
(753.75) (111.85) 
(253.74) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(1,119.34)
Purchase of Property,  
 - 
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
plant and equipment 
(0.16) 
(1.58) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(0.53) 
( - ) 
(2.27)
Sale of goods 
286.96 
15.06 
1,845.83 
- 
- 
- 
171.26 
- 
2,319.11 
 
(386.59) 
(6.25) 
(1,733.97) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(17.18) 
( - ) 
(2,143.99)
Sale of services 
3.04 
5.10 
23.27 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
31.41 
 
(2.90) 
( - ) 
(14.40) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(17.30)
Site expenses 
- 
- 
9.57 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
9.57 
 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(2.95) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(2.95)
Commission income 
2.53 
- 
8.96 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
11.49 
 
(18.16) 
( - ) 
(1.65) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(19.81)
Commission expenses 
- 
- 
12.02 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
12.02 
 
- 
- 
(1.07) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(1.07)
Dividend income 
- 
47.41 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
47.41 
 
- 
(39.32) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(39.32)
Liquidated damages 
- 
- 
1.35 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.35 
 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(0.32) 
- 
(0.32)
Liquidated damages income 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-   
 
 (6.80) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(6.80)
Charges for technical  / 
214.89 
- 
7.71 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
222.60 
professional services 
(192.60) 
( - ) 
(7.36) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(199.96)
Royalty charges 
370.21 
- 
9.29 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
379.50 
 
 (311.07) 
- 
(13.20) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(324.27)
Trademark fees 
28.23 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
28.23 
 
 (12.92) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(12.92)
Warranty charges 
1.79 
- 
1.83 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3.62 
 
 (0.81) 
- 
(4.51) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(5.32)
Recovery of expenses 
7.70 
5.37 
4.85 
- 
- 
- 
0.01 
- 
17.93 
 
(16.38) 
(13.83) 
(2.44) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(32.65)
Reimbursement  
3.73 
0.03 
3.76 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
7.52 
of expenses 
(0.76) 
- 
(2.08) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(2.84)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
32 B. Transactions with related parties: 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Nature of transactions
Parent
Entities
Associate 
Company
Fellow
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the reporting 
enterprise
Relatives of 
individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the enterprise
Enterprises over which 
individuals having 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over the reporting 
enterprise exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence
Post 
employment 
beneﬁt Trusts
Total
 
266
32 B. Transactions with related parties (Contd.): 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes :  
1. Previous year's ﬁgures are shown in brackets. 
2. The Group enters into a variety of transactions with the related parties on arm’s length basis.  
Terms and conditions for outstanding balances 
3. All outstanding balances are unsecured and payable in cash. 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
Nature of transactions
Parent
Entities
Associate 
Company
Fellow
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the reporting 
enterprise
Relatives of 
individuals 
having 
signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence over 
the enterprise
Enterprises over which 
individuals having 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over the reporting 
enterprise exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence
Post 
employment 
beneﬁt Trusts
Total
 
LD Charges  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.54 
- 
0.54 
written back 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - )  
Remuneration 
- 
- 
- 
61.84 
- 
- 
- 
- 
61.84 
 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(56.50) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(56.50)
Sitting fees paid 
- 
- 
- 
1.74 
0.40 
- 
- 
- 
2.14 
 
- 
- 
- 
(1.80) 
(0.38) 
- 
- 
- 
(2.18)
Dividend paid 
246.94 
- 
- 
0.09 
0.60 
2.09 
175.53 
- 
425.25 
 
(211.66) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(0.08) 
(0.51) 
(1.79) 
(134.25) 
( - ) 
(348.29)
Commission to  
- 
- 
- 
10.80 
3.60 
- 
- 
- 
14.40 
Directors 
- 
- 
- 
(9.60) 
(3.19) 
- 
- 
- 
(12.79)
Expenditure on Corporate  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
46.20 
- 
46.20 
Social Responsibility 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(39.03) 
- 
(39.03)
Contribution to post  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
64.92 
64.92 
employment beneﬁts 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(6.72) 
(6.72)
Outstanding balances 
arising from sales/purchases 
of goods and services
Trade receivables  
81.11 
18.52 
607.75 
- 
- 
- 
88.01 
- 
795.39 
(Refer note 7) 
(80.37) 
- 
(481.47) 
- 
- 
- 
(7.72) 
- 
(569.56)
Trade payables  
551.73 
6.55 
94.12 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
652.40 
(Refer note 16) 
(651.18) 
(8.33) 
(112.55) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(772.06)
Advances from  
45.79 
- 
68.64 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.75 
115.18 
related parties  
(41.81) 
( - ) 
(39.29) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
(4.00) 
( - ) 
(85.10)
(Refer note 19) 
Advances to related parties 
4.44 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4.44 
(Refer note 12) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
( - ) 
-   
267
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
32 C.  Transactions with related parties: 
 
I 
Key management personnel compensation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Short term employee beneﬁts 
 55.46  
 
 52.47
 
 
Post-employment beneﬁts 
6.38  
 
 4.03
 
 
 
 
Total 
61.84  
 56.50
 
II 
Material transactions with related parties 
 
 
Sr.  
Nature of transactions 
Name of the party 
Year ended  
Year ended 
 
 
No.  
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
1 
Purchase of goods 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
525.93 
 
753.75
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
107.41 
 
111.85
 
 
 
 
KSB BV 
85.89 
 
97.89
 
 
2 
Purchase of Property, 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
- 
 
1.58
 
 
 
plant and equipment 
Paharpur Cooling  
- 
  
0.53
 
 
 
 
Towers Limited
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Sale of goods 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
 286.96 
 
386.59
 
 
 
 
KSB Middle East FZE,  
482.09 
 
326.33
 
 
 
 
Dubai
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Sale of services 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
3.04 
2.90 
 
 
 
 
KSB Tech Private Limited 
20.51 
 
14.40
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
5.10 
 
-  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Site expenses 
KSB Pumps and Valves  
 1.62  
  
 - 
 
 
 
 
Pty Ltd South Africa 
 
 
 
 
PT KSB INDONESIA 
 1.08  
  
 - 
 
 
 
 
KSB Brasil LTDA. 
 6.62  
   
 -
 
 
 
 
KSB Algérie Eurl 
 -    
 
 0.61
 
 
 
 
KSB Malaysia Pumps &  
 0.18  
 1.94 
 
 
 
 
Valves Sdn. Bhd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
Commission income 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
2.53 
18.16 
 
 
 
 
KSB S.A.S, France 
3.92 
 
1.65
 
 
 
 
KSB Shanghai Pump Co.  
2.36 
  
- 
 
 
 
 
Ltd., China
 
 
 
 
KSB Sverige AB 
1.22 
   
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
Commission expenses 
KSB Polska Sp. z o.o. [PL] 
6.13 
  
- 
 
 
 
 
KSB Italia S.p.A. 
5.65 
   
-
 
 
 
 
KSB Pompa Armatur  
- 
0.99 
 
 
 
 
Sanayi ve Ticaret
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
Trademark fees 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
28.23 
 
12.92
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
268
 
 
9 
Dividend income 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
47.41 
 
39.32
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
Liquidated damages 
Paharpur Cooling  
- 
 
0.32
 
 
 
 
Towers Limited
 
 
 
 
KSB Shanghai Pump Co.  
0.99 
   
-
 
 
 
 
Ltd., China
 
 
 
 
KSB Valves (Changzhou)  
0.36 
   
-
 
 
 
 
Co.,Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
Liquidated damages  
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
- 
 
6.80
 
 
 
income
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
Charges for technical  / 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
214.89 
 
192.60
 
 
 
professional services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
Royalty charges 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
370.21 
 
311.07
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
Warranty charges 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
1.79 
 
0.81
 
 
 
 
KSB Vietnam Company Ltd. 
- 
 
1.80
 
 
 
 
KSB Pumps Co. Ltd,  
0.07 
 
1.37
 
 
 
 
Thailand
 
 
 
 
KSB Pumps and Valves Pty  
0.64 
 
0.72
 
 
 
 
Ltd South Africa 
 
 
 
 
KSB Singapore  
0.72 
 
0.04
 
 
 
 
(Asia Paciﬁc) PTE Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
Recovery of expenses 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
5.37 
 
13.83
 
 
 
 
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
7.70 
 
16.38
 
 
 
 
KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., India 
2.57 
  
- 
 
 
 
 
KSB S.A.S France 
1.97 
   
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
Reimbursement  
KSB SE & Co. KGaA 
3.73 
0.76 
 
 
 
of expenses 
KSB Valves (Changzhou)  
0.60 
 
0.71
 
 
 
 
Co.,Ltd.
 
 
 
 
KSB Service GmbH,  
0.87 
 
1.14
 
 
 
 
Germany
 
 
 
 
KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., India 
1.29 
   
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
Expenses write oﬀ 
TKIL Industries Private 
0.03 
   
-
 
 
 
 
 Limited( w.e.f. 8th May 24)
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
LD Charges written  
TKIL Industries Private  
0.54 
 
-  
 
 
 
back 
Limited( w.e.f. 8th May 24)
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
Remuneration 
Mr. Rajeev Jain 
61.84 
 
56.50
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
32 C.  Transactions with related parties:
 
II 
Material transactions with related parties (continued) 
 
Sr.  
Nature of transactions 
Name of the party 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
No.  
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
269
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
32 C.  Transactions with related parties:
 
II 
Material transactions with related parties (continued) 
 
 
 
20 
Sitting fees paid 
Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
0.40 
0.38 
 
 
 
 
Mr. D. N. Damania  
0.30 
 
0.38
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Pradip Shah   
0.29 
 
0.37
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Mr. V. K. Vishwanathan 
0.31 
0.28 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
0.33 
0.33 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Sharmila   
0.30 
 
0.28
 
 
 
 
Roychowdhury
 
 
 
 
Mr. Vishal Kampani  
0.07 
   
-
 
 
 
 
(Appointed w.e.f. 1st Oct 24)
 
 
 
 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
0.16 
0.16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
Dividend paid 
Canadian Kay Pump Ltd. 
246.94 
 
211.66
 
 
 
 
The Industrial & Prudential  
131.25 
 
112.50
 
 
 
 
Investment Co. Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
Commission to Directors Mr. Gaurav Swarup 
3.60 
 
3.19
 
 
 
 
Mr. D. N. Damania  
1.80 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Pradip Shah   
1.80 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
(Retired w.e.f. 30th Sept 24) 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Stephan Bross 
 1.80  
 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
Mr. V. K. Vishwanathan 
 1.80  
 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
Dr. Matthias Schmitz 
 1.80  
 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
Ms. Sharmila   
 1.80  
 
 
1.60
 
 
 
 
Roychowdhury
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
Expenditure on  
KSB Care Charitable Trust 
46.20 
 
39.03
 
 
 
Corporate Social 
 
 
 
Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
Contribution to post 
KSB Pumps Employee's  
54.81 
 
6.72
 
 
 
 employment beneﬁts 
Gratuity Trust 
 
 
 
 
KSB Pumps  
10.00 
   
-
 
 
 
 
(Core Employee's) 
 
 
 
 
Superannuation Trust 
 
 
 
Note : 
 
 
  1.  “Material transactions with related parties” denote entities accounting for 10% or more of the 
aggregate for that category of balance during respective period.
Sr.  
Nature of transactions 
Name of the party 
Year ended  
 
Year ended
No.  
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
33 
Segment reporting
 
(A)  Description of segments and principal activities 
 
 
 
 
1 
Pumps segment includes manufacturing / trading of all types of pumps like industrial pumps, submersible 
pumps, eﬄuent treatment  pumps, etc. and spares and services in respect thereof. 
 
 
 
2 
Valves segment consists basically manufacturing and trading of industrial valves and spares and services in 
respect thereof.
270
33 
Segment reporting
 
(B) Segment revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total segment revenue 
21,080.80 
4,287.81 
25,368.61 
 
18,968.66 
3,535.87 
22,504.53
 
Inter segment revenue 
- 
(37.75) 
(37.75) 
- 
(32.15) 
(32.15)
 
Revenue from external customers 
21,080.80 
4,250.06 
25,330.86 
18,968.66 
3,503.72 
22,472.38
 
(C) Segment proﬁt 
2,312.72 
647.47 
2,960.19 
2,147.56 
451.51 
2,599.07 
 
Share of net proﬁt of  
 
 
134.06 
 
 
94.10
 
associate accounted for using 
 
the equity method
 
Unallocated corporate income /  
 
 
(0.05) 
 
 
(0.06)
 
(expenses) 
 
Finance cost 
 
 
 (27.17) 
 
 
(52.90)
 
Interest income  
 
 
239.47 
 
 
 
163.28
 
and Dividend Income
 
Proﬁt before tax 
 
 
 3,306.50 
 
 
2,803.49 
 
Tax expense 
 
 
 (831.75) 
 
 
(716.16)
 
Proﬁt for the year 
 
 
 2,474.75 
 
 
2,087.33 
 
(D) Segment assets 
17,446.29 
1,714.22 
19,160.51 
15,342.66 
1,525.23 
16,867.89
 
Investment in associate 
 
 
 878.28 
 
 
795.36 
 
Unallocated corporate assets 
 
 
3,441.49 
 
 
2,994.18
 
Total assets 
 
 
23,480.28 
 
 
20,657.43
 
(E) Segment liabilities 
7,661.80 
859.67 
8,521.47 
6,664.74 
950.70 
7,615.44
 
Unallocated corporate liabilities 
 
 
105.31 
 
 
22.90
 
Total liabilities 
 
 
8,626.78 
 
 
7,638.34
 
(F) Cost incurred during the period  
861.59 
75.25 
936.84 
945.77 
69.54 
1,015.31
 
to acquire segment property, plant 
 
and equipment 
 
(G) Depreciation and amortisation 
496.15 
47.09 
543.24 
453.16 
43.62 
496.78
 
(H) Geographical  Segments
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2024 
 
Year ended December 31, 2023 
 
 
 
Within  
Outside   
Total 
 
Within 
Outside 
Total
 
 
 
India 
India 
 
India 
India
 
 
Segment revenue by  
 21,830.64 
3,500.22 
25,330.86 19,473.30 
2,999.08 22,472.38 
 
 
geographical area 
 
 
based on geographical 
 
 
location of customers 
 
 
 
(I)  The total of non-current assets other than ﬁnancial instruments, investments and deferred tax assets broken 
down by location of the assets is as under:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at  
As at 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
India 
 
 5,386.14 
5,040.64 
 
 
Other countries 
 
1.41 
1.55 
 
 
 
Total 
5,387.55 
5,042.19
 
 
 
 Year ended December 31, 2024  
 Year ended December 31, 2023
 
 
 
Pumps 
Valves 
Total 
Pumps 
Valves 
Total
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
271
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
34 
Interests in other entities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Subsidiary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of the entity Place of business/Country  
Ownership interest held  
Principal  
 
 
 
of incorporation 
by the Group 
activities
 
 
 
 
As at  
 
As at 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Pofran Sales and  
 
 
 
Commission 
 
 
Agency Limited 
India 
100%
 
agency
 
100%
 
 
(b) Interest in associate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of the entity 
Place of  
Percentage of ownership  
Accounting  
Principal 
 
 
 
business 
 interest held by Group  
method 
activities
 
 
KSB MIL Controls  
India 
49% 
Equity  
Manufacturing
 
 
Limited 
 
 
method 
of control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
valves and
 
 
 
 
  
 
accessories
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited is an unlisted entity and no quoted price is available. 
 
 
 
(c) 
Summarized ﬁnancial information for associate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The summarized ﬁnancial information for associate disclosed below, reﬂects the amounts presented in the 
ﬁnancial statements of the relevant associate and not Group's share of those amounts.  
 
 
 
(i)  Summarized balance sheet 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
As at  
As at 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
December 31, 2023 
 
 
Total current assets 
  
1,890.31 
1,902.41 
 
 
Total non-current assets 
  
586.15 
499.04 
 
 
Total current liabilities 
  
 703.82 
 
807.41
 
 
Total non-current liabilities 
  
30.30 
 
20.90
 
 
Net assets 
 
1,742.34 
1,573.14 
 
 
(ii)  Reconciliation of carrying amounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
As at  
 
As at
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Opening net assets 
 
1,573.14 
1,463.45 
 
 
Proﬁt for the year 
 
273.55 
192.04
 
 
Other comprehensive income 
 
(7.60) 
(2.10)
 
 
Dividends paid 
 
(96.75) 
(80.25)
 
 
Closing net assets 
 
1,742.34 
1,573.14 
 
 
Group’s share in % 
 
49% 
49%
 
 
Group’s share in INR 
  
853.76 
770.84 
 
 
Goodwill 
 
24.52  
 
 
 
24.52 
 
 
Carrying amount 
 
878.28 
795.36 
272
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
 
 
(iii)  Summarized Statement of Proﬁt and Loss 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended  
Year ended
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Revenue 
 
2,865.20 
2,420.00 
 
 
 
192.04 
Proﬁt for the period 
 
273.55
 
 
Other comprehensive income 
 
(7.60) 
(2.10)
 
 
Total comprehensive income 
 
265.95 
189.94 
 
 
 
    
 -    
 
Dividends received
-
 
(d) 
Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of associates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at  
As at 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
Share of contingent liabilities incurred jointly with 
 
 
other investors of the associate
 
 
Excise and Service tax matters 
 
 -    
 - 
 
 
Goods and Service Tax related matters 
 
1.52  
 
 1.52
 
 
Income tax matters 
 
1.08 
  
 
 
 1.08  
 
 
Commitments of associate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commitment to provide funding for  
 
0.64  
 6.03 
 
 
associate's capital commitments, if called  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
3.24  
 8.63 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
Additional information required by Schedule III  
 
 
 
 
Particulars 
Net Assets i.e. total assets minus  
Share in proﬁt or loss 
 
 
total liabilities 
 
 
As % of  
Amount 
As % of  
Amount
 
 
consolidated net 
(` Million) 
consolidated  
(` Million)
 
 
 assets 
 
proﬁt or loss
 
Parent 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
94.08% 
13,973.58 
94.58% 
2,340.74  
 
December 31, 2023 
 
93.88% 
12,222.04 
95.49% 
1,993.29
 
Subsidiary - Indian 
 
 
 
 
 
Pofran Sales and Agency Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
0.01% 
1.64 
0.00% 
(0.05)
 
December 31, 2023 
0.01% 
1.69 
0.00% 
(0.06)
 
"Associate - Indian 
 
(Investment as per equity method)" 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
5.91% 
878.28 
5.42% 
134.06 
 
December 31, 2023 
 
 
6.10% 
795.36 
4.51% 
94.10 
 
Total - December 31, 2024 
100% 
 14,853.50 
100% 
2,474.75 
 
Total - December 31, 2023 
100% 
 13,019.09 
100% 
2,087.33 
 
All eliminations and adjustments are netted oﬀ against balances of the Parent Company for disclosure purpose.
273
 
Particulars 
Share in other comprehensive income 
Share in total  
 
 
total liabilities 
comprehensive income 
 
 
As % of  
Amount 
As % of total  
Amount
 
 
consolidated other  
(` Million) 
 comprehensive   
(` Million)
 
 
comprehensive income 
 
 income
 
Parent 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
88.08% 
(27.48) 
94.67% 
2,313.26 
 
December 31, 2023 
 
104.53% 
23.75 
95.59% 
2,017.04
 
Subsidiary - Indian 
 
 
 
 
 
Pofran Sales and Agency Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
0.00% 
- 
0.00% 
(0.05)
 
December 31, 2023 
0.00% 
- 
0.00% 
(0.06)
 
"Associate - Indian 
 
(Investment as per equity method)" 
 
 
 
 
 
KSB MIL Controls Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
11.92% 
(3.72) 
5.33% 
130.34  
 
December 31, 2023 
 
 
-4.53% 
(1.03) 
4.41% 
93.07
 
Total - December 31, 2024 
100% 
(31.20) 
100% 
2,443.55 
 
Total - December 31, 2023 
100% 
 22.72 
100% 
2,110.05
 
All eliminations and adjustments are netted oﬀ against balances of the Parent Company for disclosure purpose.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
36 
Fair value measurements 
 
 
 
 
 
Except derivative instruments, all ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. 
Derivative instruments are classiﬁed as fair value through proﬁt or loss. The fair value is determined using 
forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The instruments fall under level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as 
per Ind AS 113 Fair Value Measurements. Level 2 fair value ﬁnancial instruments are those which are not traded 
in an active market, which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity 
speciﬁc estimates. Signiﬁcant inputs required to measure a level 2 fair value are observable. The fair value of all 
the instruments measured at amortised cost is not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from the carrying value of such 
instruments. 
 
 
 
 
37 
Financial risk management 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group's activities exposes it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. In order to minimise any adverse 
eﬀects on the ﬁnancial performance of the Group, derivative ﬁnancial instruments, such as foreign exchange 
forward contracts are taken. This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the 
entity manages the risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group's risk management is carried out by the Group's treasury department under policies approved by the 
board of directors. The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies 
covering speciﬁc areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments and non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
(A) 
Credit risk
 
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
ﬁnancing activities, including deposits with banks and other ﬁnancial instruments. For banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions, only high rated banks/ ﬁnancial institutions are accepted. The balances with banks, loans given to 
employees, security deposits are subject to low credit risk and the risk of default is negligible or nil.  The Group 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
274
has recognized provision based on assumptions about risk of default, expected loss rates based on  payment 
proﬁle and historic credit losses experienced.
I 
Trade receivables 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit risk arises from the possibility that customer will not be able to settle their obligations as and when agreed. 
To manage this, the Group periodically assesses the ﬁnancial reliability of customers, taking into account the 
ﬁnancial condition, current economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts, ageing of accounts receivable and 
forward looking information. Individual credit limits are set accordingly. The Group has recognized the 
provision based on assumptions about risk of default, expected loss rates based on  payment proﬁle and historic 
credit losses experienced.
 
Expected credit loss for trade receivables under simpliﬁed approach 
 
Trade receivables 
 
Year ended December 31, 2023
 
 
 
 Weighted 
Gross  
Allowance 
Net 
Credit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
average loss rate
impaired 
 
Outstanding for following  
0% 
1,812.36 
- 
1,812.36 
No
 
periods from the due date
  
Not due 
 
Less than 6 months 
0% 
 2,885.50 
(1.81) 
2,883.69  
No
 
6 months - 1 year  
4% 
131.20  
 (4.69) 
126.51  
No
 
1-2 years 
46%  
120.64 
 (56.09) 
64.55  
No
 
2-3 years  
58% 
44.01 
 (25.33) 
18.68 
No
 
More than 3 years 
55%  
118.53  
 (64.79) 
53.74 
No
 
 
Total 
 
5,112.24 
(152.71) 
4,959.53 
 
 
 
Trade receivables 
 Year ended December 31, 2024
 
Gross  
Allowance 
Net
 
 
 Weighted 
 
Credit
 
 
 
average loss rate 
 
 
 
impaired 
 
 
0% 
1,613.36 
- 
1,613.36 
No 
Outstanding for following 
 
periods from the due date
  
Not due 
 
Less than 6 months 
0% 
4,128.81 
(1.10) 
4,127.71 
No
 
6 months - 1 year  
0% 
425.27 
(1.00) 
424.27 
No
 
1-2 years 
23% 
358.85 
(83.47) 
275.38 
No 
 
2-3 years  
60% 
75.53 
(45.03) 
30.50 
No
 
More than 3 years 
64% 
140.55 
(89.90) 
50.65 
No
 
 
Total 
 
6,742.37 
(220.50) 
6,521.87  
 
 
Movement of provision for loss allowance : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for 
 
 
 
 
Loss allowance  
  
 
 
Provision as at January 1, 2023 
 
 
209.00 
 
 
Change during the year 
 
 
(56.29)
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2023 
 
 
152.71 
 
 
Change during the year 
 
67.79  
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2024 
 
220.50  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
275
 
II 
Other ﬁnancial assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group’s exposure to investments, loans, security deposits and other ﬁnancial assets are considered to be 
low risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss allowance as at year end reconciles to the opening loss allowance as follows: 
 
 
Movement of provision for loss allowance : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for 
 
 
 
 
Loss allowance  
  
 
 
Provision as at January 1, 2023 
 
 
5.30 
 
 
Change during the year 
 
   
- 
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2023 
 
  
5.30
 
 
Change during the year 
 
-    
 
 
Provision as at December 31, 2024 
 
5.30
(B) 
Liquidity risk 
 
 
 
 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining suﬃcient cash and marketable securities and the 
availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due 
and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, the Group's treasury 
maintains ﬂexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. 
 
 
 
The table below analyses the Group's ﬁnancial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their 
contractual maturities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities based on undiscounted cash ﬂows:
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
 
Upto 1 year  
Above 1 year 
Upto 1 year  Above 1 year
 
 
Trade payables 
3,753.39 
- 
 
 
3,432.55 
       - 
 
 
Lease liabilities 
13.89 
26.86 
 
 
12.42
26.73
 
 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
 955.44 
- 
 
  
 
925.02
-
(C) 
Market risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I)  Foreign currency risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group is engaged in international trade and  thereby exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from 
foreign currency transactions, primarily with respect to the EUR and USD. Foreign exchange risk arises from 
future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the 
Group's functional currency (INR). The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its 
exposure in foreign currency risk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i) Foreign currency risk exposure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
276
 
 
 
The Company's exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period expressed in INR 
million, are as follows :- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
EUR 
USD AUD SGD GBP BDT 
EUR 
USD AUD GBP BDT
 
Financial assets 
 
Trade receivables 
217.37 
895.08 
- 
- 0.24 0.25  
 
  
153.94   653.68  
 -    
 -    0.20 
 
 
Balances with banks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- In current accounts 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 2.17 
 
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    0.76 
 
- In EEFC accounts 
107.25 
205.84 
- 
- 
- 
- 
    
 
54.31   228.97  
 -    
 -    
 -
 
Derivative assets - Foreign  
(61.44) (101.37) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
    
   
-  (37.49) 
 -    
 -    
 -
 
exchange forward contracts
 
(Sell Foreign Currency) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net exposure to foreign  
263.18 
999.55 
- 
- 0.24 2.42 
 
 
208.25   845.16  
 -    
 -    0.96 
 
currency risk (assets) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade payables 
 250.94 
112.29 0.11 0.06 0.99 0.59 
  
  
351.94   110.11   0.11   1.10   1.36
 
Derivative liabilities - Foreign  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
-    
 -    
 -    
 -    
 -   
 
exchange forward contracts 
 
(Buy Foreign Currency) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net exposure to foreign 
 250.94 
112.29 0.11 0.06 0.99 0.59 
  
  
351.94   110.11   0.11   1.10   1.36
 
 currency risk (liabilities) 
 
ii) 
Sensitivity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sensitivity of proﬁt and loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency 
denominated ﬁnancials instruments: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact on proﬁt before tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
EUR sensitivity
 
INR/EUR - Increase by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
0.61 
(7.18) 
 
 
7.18  
INR/EUR - Decrease by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
(0.61)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USD sensitivity
 
INR/USD - Increase by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
44.36 
36.75  
 
 
(36.75) 
INR/USD - Decrease by 5% (December 31, 2023-5%)* 
(44.36)
 
* Holding all other variables constant 
 
 
 
 
 
II) 
Interest rate risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group's main interest rate risk arises from short term borrowings and deposits taken / placed over a 
period of time on frequent basis thereby exposing the Group to interest rate risk. The Group's policy is to 
have ﬁxed interest rate at the time of deal execution.  
 
 
 
 
38 
Capital management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a)  
Risk management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard their ability to continue as a going 
concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders, 
and maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. For the purpose of the Group's 
capital management, capital includes issued equity capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the 
equity holders of the parent. The primary objective of the Group's capital management is to maximise the 
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
277
shareholders value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in 
economic conditions. The Group is debt-free and has net cash and bank balance as at years ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
 
 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023.
 
 
Net debt reconciliation
 
 
This section sets out an analysis of net debt and the movements in net debt for each of the periods 
presented.  
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended
Year ended 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
 
December 31, 2024
 
 
Cash and bank balance
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents [Refer note 8 (a)] 
 
 959.01 
1,195.28  
 
 
Other bank balance [Refer note 8 (b)] 
 
2,268.00 
 
1,542.96
 
 
Borrowings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current borrowings 
 
 
- 
-  
 
 
Net cash and bank balance 
 
3,227.01 
 
2,738.24
 
 
The amount of net cash and bank balance considering the amount of lease liability of  34.36 million 
`
(December 31, 2023:  32.36 million) is  3,192.65 million (December 31, 2023: INR 2,705.88 million)
`
`
 
 
Net debt reconciliation - Current borrowings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended
Year ended 
 
 
December 31, 2023
 
 
 
December 31, 2024
 
 
Nebt debt at the beginning of the year 
 
-  
   
- 
 
 
Net cashﬂows [Inﬂow/(Outﬂow)] 
 
-  
    
 -
 
 
Interest on borrowings 
 
6.97 
  
27.31
 
 
Interest paid on borrowings 
 
(6.97) 
 
 
(27.31)
 
 
Nebt debt at the end of the year 
 
-  
  
 
- 
 
b)  
Dividends
 
 
 
December 31, 2024 
December 31, 2023
 
 
(i) Equity shares
 
 
 
Final dividend paid for the year ended  
   609.14 
 
522.12 
 
 
 
December 31, 2023 of  3.50* 
`
 
 
 
(December 31, 2022 of  3.00*) 
`
 
 
 
per fully paid share 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Dividends not recognised at the end of 
 
 
 
the reporting period
 
 
 
The directors have recommended the payment of 
  696.16 
609.14
 
 
 
a ﬁnal dividend of  4.00 per fully paid equity 
 `
 
 
 
share (December 31, 2023 -  3.50*). This 
`
 
 
 
proposed dividend is subject to the approval of 
 
 
 
shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
 
 
 
*Dividend per equity share disclosed in above note represents dividends declared previously, 
retrospectively adjusted for the share split (Refer note 14).
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
278
39 
With eﬀect from August 5, 2022, the Ministry of Corporate Aﬀairs (MCA) has amended the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 as per which backup of books of accounts and other books and papers maintained in electronic mode is 
required to be kept on servers physically located in India on a daily basis.
 
The Company and its associate have a process in place to take backup on a daily basis. During the year ended 
December 31, 2024, the Company has taken the backup of its ERP system used for maintaining books of accounts. 
However, due to a technical issue, daily backup of certain working ﬁles and papers maintained in electronic mode 
has not been maintained on certain occasions onservers physically located in India.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the associate has taken the backup of its ERP system and the ﬁle server 
used for maintaining books of accounts except that the backup was not taken on Sundays till February 16,2024. 
However, due to a technical issue, daily backup for certain books and other records could not be taken from 
October 7, 2024 to October 9, 2024 on servers physically located in India.
40 
The Company and its associate have complied with the requirements of The Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
with respect to the usage of accounting software with a feature of recording audit trail as follows:
 
In case of the Company-
 
a) Feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility has operated throughout the year for all transactions in 
respect of the core accounting software which the company has used for maintaining its books of accounts, 
except that the due to certain inherent and technical challenges, audit trail is not maintained for certain 
records and changes made.
 
b)  Further, for the purpose of payroll processing, the Company uses software of third-patty service provider. 
Due to certain inherent and other technical challenges, the audit trail feature was not enabled at the database 
level to log any direct data changes.
 
In case of associate company-
 
a) Feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility has operated throughout the year for all transactions in 
respect of the core accounting software which the associate has used for maintaining its books of accounts, 
except that these logs did not capture the nature of changes and before/after value of the changes up to 
December 11, 2024 inherently. From December 12, 2024, due to certain inherent and technical challenges, 
audit trail is not maintained for certain records and changes made.
 
b)  Further, for the purpose of payroll processing, the Company uses software of third-party service provider. 
Due to certain inherent and other technical challenges, the audit trail feature was not enabled at the database 
level to log any direct data changes.
 
c) The spreadsheets used by the Company does not have an audit trail (edit log) feature.
41 
Additional regulatory information
 
(a) Details of benami property held
 
 
No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Group under the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
 
(b) Borrowing secured against current assets
 
 
The Group has placed ﬁxed deposits of INR 500.96 million (December 31, 2023: INR 988.44 million)  
under lien with banks and has availed the overdraft facilities against the same. Thus,  the Group is not 
required to ﬁle quarterly returns or statement of current assets with the banks.
 
(c) Wilful defaulter
 
 
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or ﬁnancial institution or government or any 
government authority.
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
279
(All amounts in ` million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
 
(d) Relationship with struck oﬀ companies
 
 
Below are the details of transactions with the companies struck oﬀ under Companies Act, 2013 or 
Companies Act, 1956.
 
Sr 
Name of the  
Nature of  
Balance outstanding as  
Relationship
 
 
struck oﬀ Company 
transactions 
 at December 31, 2023  
 
 
1 
Soares Engineers Private Limited 
Payables 
0.27 
Non related party 
 
2 
Hi-Tech Engineering Corporation 
Payables 
 3.27 
Non related party 
 
3 
Airmech Engineers Private Limited 
Payables 
 -*  
Non related party
 
Sr 
Name of the  
Nature of  
Balance outstanding as  
Relationship
 
 
struck oﬀ Company 
transactions 
 at December 31, 2024 
 
1 
Soares Engineers Private Limited 
Payables 
0.14 
Non related party
 
2 
Resurgent Power Systems Private Limited 
Payables 
0.69 
Non related party
 
* amount below rounding oﬀ norms of the Group
 
(e) 
Compliance with number of layers of companies
 
 
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
 
(f) 
Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements
 
 
The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact in the year 
ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
 
(g) Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium
 
 
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) to any other person or entity, including foreign entity (Intermediary) with 
the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
 
 
i.  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneﬁciaries) or
 
 
ii.  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneﬁciaries
 
 
The Group has not received any funds from any person or entity, including foreign entity (Funding Party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
 
 
i.  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identiﬁed in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneﬁciaries) or
 
 
ii.  provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneﬁciaries
 
(h) Undisclosed income
 
 
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the year ended December 31, 2024 and 
December 31, 2023 in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in 
the books of account. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
Details of cryptocurrency or virtual currency
 
 
The Group has not traded or invested in cryptocurrency or virtual currency during the year ended 
December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023.
 
(j) 
Valuation of Property, plant and equipment, Right-of-use assets and Other intangible assets
 
 
The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment or right-of-use assets or intangible assets 
during the year ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. 
 
 
280
In terms of our report of even date
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
Vivian Pillai 
Gaurav Swarup 
Ulhas Yargop
Partner 
Chairman 
Director 
Membership No.: 127791 
(DIN : 00374298) 
(DIN : 00054530) 
 
Rajeev Jain  
Mahesh Bhave 
 
Managing Director  
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
 
(DIN : 07475640) 
 
Place : Mumbai 
Place : Mumbai 
Shraddha Kavathekar 
Date : February 27, 2025 
Date : February 27, 2025  
Company Secretary 
42 
During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company has ﬁled for renewal application with Income Tax 
authorities for Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreement for the period from April 01, 2023 to March 31, 2028 and 
is awaiting the approval. The initial application for Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreement for the period from 
April 01, 2018 to March 31, 2023 was ﬁled in the year ended December 31, 2018 and the same is under approval 
with the Income Tax authorities. 
 
 
 
43 
Events occurring after the reporting period
 
Refer to note 38 (b) (ii) for the ﬁnal dividend recommended by the directors which is subject to the approval of 
shareholders in the ensuing general meeting.  
 
 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements  (Contd.)
Open Access 
 Power Project Inauguration
Solar
The KSB limited have the total rooftop capacity 
of 
 In CY 2024 KSB utilised 
4.227 MWp.
47,76,236 kWh units of renewable energy 
and oﬀset the Grid electricity. This impacted on 
reduction in GHG emissions about 3036 
Tons of Co   eq.
2
Key milestone with the successful inauguration of our open 
access solar power project at the 
IPD facility..
Developed in partnership with M/s 
Sunsure, the project includes both 
rooftop and open access solar 
installations. With a capacity of 6.65 MWp, it is projected to 
generate approximately 10 million kilowatt-hours annually, 
meeting close to 50% of KSB India’s current power 
requirements at the manufacturing plant.
This development supports our 
alignment with Maharashtra’s green 
open access regulations and signiﬁcantly 
enhances our renewable energy usage 
raising it to 71% of our total energy 
mix. The initiative reﬂects our long-term commitment to 
environmental responsibility and contributes meaningfully to 
our carbon footprint reduction goals.
We extend our sincere appreciation to all team members and 
partners involved in bringing this project to life. It represents an 
important step in our sustainability journey.
It was inspiring to see our collective eﬀorts in action, 
demonstrating our dedication to environmental responsibility 
and sustainable energy solutions. 
1,800 Tons Co  eq 
2
GHG emissions 
Reduced in FY 2024
Solar Rooftops: Driving Energy Savings 2024
24,76,330+ 
Units Saved of 
Grid Electricity  
KSB and You...Partnership on the move
