 
 
 
 
 
Reference No.: SEC/SE/65/2025-26 
Date: July 21, 2025 
 
 
Dear Madam/Sir, 
 
Sub: Notice of the 33rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Annual Report of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25 
 
In compliance with the Companies Act 2013, (Act’) and rules framed thereunder and SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) as amended, 
please be informed that the 33rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the members of the Company for 
the Financial Year 2024-25 will be held on Thursday, August 14, 2025, at 11.00 A.M. (IST) at Latha 
Convention Centre (formerly known as Anugraha Auditorium) Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680 567 to 
transact the business as detailed in the enclosed Notice of the 33rd AGM. Please note that the Notice 
of 33rd AGM and Annual Report of the Company for the Financial Year 2024-25 may be accessed 
through the company website as given below: 
 
The 33rd AGM Notice including e-voting 
instructions, Attendance Slip and Proxy 
Form 
https://www.manappuram.com/investors/notice-
to-shareholders 
The 33rd Annual Report (including Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report)  
https://www.manappuram.com/annual-reports 
 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended and Regulation 44 of  SEBI Listing Regulations and other 
applicable laws, the Company has engaged the services of Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(CDSL) for facilitating remote e-voting and e-voting on the date of the 33rd AGM. 
 
Cut-off date for e-voting 
Thursday, August 07, 2025 
Remote e-voting commencement date and time 
Monday, August 11, 2025 (9:00 A.M (IST)) 
Remote e-voting conclusion date and time 
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 (5:00 P.M. (IST)) 
 
In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the Annual Report including Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’) along with the Notice of the 33rd AGM for the 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy 
Towers 
Dalal Street 
Mumbai – 400 001 
Scrip Code: 531213 
National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited 
5th Floor, Exchange Plaza 
Bandra (East) 
Mumbai - 400 051 
Scrip Code: MANAPPURAM 
India International Exchange (IFSC) 
Ltd  
1st Floor, Unit No. 101, The 
Signature, Building no. 13B, Road 
1C, Zone 1, GIFT SEZ, GIFT City, 
Gandhinagar,  
Gujarat – 382355 
Financial Year 2024-25 which are enclosed herewith, are being sent to the members through 
electronic mode whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/RTA/Depository 
Participant(s)(‘DPs’).  
 
Further, in accordance with Regulation 36(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company will be 
sending a letter to Shareholders whose e-mail addresses are not registered with the 
Company/RTA/DPs providing the weblink from where the Annual Report can be accessed on the 
Company’s website. 
 
Request you to kindly take the same on record. 
 
Thanking You. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Manappuram Finance Limited 
 
 
 
Manoj Kumar V R 
Company Secretary  
  
MANOJKUMAR V R
Digitally signed by MANOJKUMAR V R 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=3934, 
pseudonym=6rzdt0e5hqc9asplx24wo1im8vfgyk3j, 
2.5.4.20=9610d36c8eec56cf4e0984bc9d33b6737066d7d69ce4ee2dcb3e6bbd
25cbba4e, postalCode=680581, st=Kerala, 
serialNumber=ec0b07b2d06a85987aa84d48d23761b1c13f03d66989437cb634
8bc1a592cc87, cn=MANOJKUMAR V R 
Date: 2025.07.21 15:48:00 +05'30'
1
Notice of the 33rd  Annual General Meeting (“ the notice”)
MANAPPURAM FINANCE LIMITED
Registered Office: W-4/ 638A, Manappuram House, P.O. Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680 567
CIN: L65910KL1992PLC006623, Ph: (0487) 3050413, 3050417
Email: cosecretary@manappuram.com, Website: www.manappuram.com
Notice is hereby given that the 33rd Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) of the members of Manappuram Finance Limited (“the 
Company”) will be held on Thursday, August 14, 2025, at 
11.00 a.m. (IST) at Latha Convention Centre (formerly known 
as Anugraha Auditorium), Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680 567, 
India to transact the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
Item no.1 - Adoption of Financial Statements
To consider and adopt the audited Standalone as well as 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025, together with Reports of 
the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon and if thought fit, to 
pass, the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT-
i)	
the audited standalone financial statements of the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, and the reports 
of the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon, as 
circulated to the Members; and
ii)	
the audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
and reports of the Auditors thereon, as circulated to the 
Members, be and are hereby considered and adopted.”
Item no. 2 - Appointment of Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 
03625120) as a director, liable to retire by rotation:
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following resolution as 
an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the provisions of Section 
152 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013, read with the Articles of Association of the Company, 
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120) who retires by rotation 
at this meeting, and being eligible for re-appointment, be and 
is hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Company liable to 
retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
Item no. 3 - Appointment of KSR & Co Company Secretaries 
LLP, as Secretarial Auditor of the Company
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as 
an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read 
with relevant rules, if any, and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(the “SEBI Listing Regulations”), other applicable laws/ statutory 
provisions, if any, as amended from time to time, and based on 
the recommendations of the Audit Committee and the Board of 
Directors of the Company, the approval of the members be and 
is hereby accorded for the appointment of KSR & Co Company 
Secretaries LLP (Firm Registration No. P2008TN006400), as 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a term of five consecutive 
years, commencing from Financial Year 2025-26 till Financial 
Year 2029-30 on such remuneration plus applicable taxes along 
with out-of-pocket expenses and on such terms and conditions 
as may be mutually agreed between Board of Directors of the 
Company and secretarial auditors.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 
Company, (including its committees thereof), be and is hereby 
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may 
be deemed proper, necessary, or expedient, including filing the 
requisite forms or submission of documents with any authority 
or accepting any modifications to the clauses as required by such 
authorities, for the purpose of giving effect to this resolution and 
for matters connected therewith, or incidental thereto.”
Item no.4 - Re-appointment of Mr. Harshan Kollara 
Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810) as an Independent 
Director of the Company.
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as 
a Special Resolution:
2
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 149, 
150, and 152 and all other relevant provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), the Companies (Appointment 
and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014 made thereunder 
(including any amendment, variation, statutory modifications or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) read with 
Schedule IV of the Act and Regulations 16 (1) (b), Regulation 
17 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”), and subject to the provisions of the 
Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. Harshan Kollara 
Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810), who was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a term 
of five years commencing from August 28, 2020, up to August 27, 
2025, who has submitted the declaration that meets the criteria 
of independence under Section 149(6) of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and being eligible, and in respect of whom the 
Company has received a notice in writing under Section 160 of 
the Act from a member proposing his candidature for the office 
of Director for reappointment, be and is hereby re-appointed 
as an Independent Non - Executive Director of the company, 
not liable to retire by rotation, for a second term of five (5) 
consecutive years from August 28, 2025, to August 27, 2030, 
based on the recommendation of the Nomination, Compensation 
and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors 
of the company.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to Regulation 
17(1A) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
and other applicable provisions, approval of the Members be 
and is hereby accorded for the continuation of directorship 
of Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810) as an 
Independent Director, notwithstanding that he may attain the 
age of 75 years during his tenure.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to Sections 149, 197, 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810) be paid 
sitting fees for attending Board and Committee meetings, 
reimbursement of expenses, and commission on an annual 
basis, as recommended by the Nomination, Compensation and 
Corporate Governance Committee and approved by the Board, 
within the overall limits specified under the Act.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THATany Director and/ or the Company 
Secretary be and is hereby authorised to do all acts, deeds, and 
things, including filings, and take steps as deemed necessary to 
give effect to these Resolutions and matters incidental thereto.”
Item no. 5 - Revision in remuneration payable to Dr. Sumitha 
Nandan (DIN: 03625120), Whole-time Director of the Company
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as 
an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT further to the resolutions passed at the 32nd 
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on Wednesday, 
August 14, 2024 for remuneration payable to Dr. Sumitha Nandan 
(DIN: 03625120), Whole-time Director and pursuant to the 
provisions of Sections 196 , 197, 198, 203 and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with 
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 (the “Rules”) read with Schedule V of the 
Act, read with Regulation 17(6)(e) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing 
Regulations’) (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof), the consent of Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded for revision in remuneration of 
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120), Whole-time Director, by 
way of increment with effect from April 01, 2025 for the remaining 
period of her present term of appointment on the following terms 
and conditions:”
Salary & Allowances: Rs. 20,00,000/-(Rupees Twenty Lakhs 
Only) per month with minimum annual increment of 10 %.
Commission: Not exceeding 1% of net profits of the Company 
calculated as per the provisions of Section 198 of the Act. 
The quantum of commission to be determined by the Board 
of Directors is subject to the norms framed by the Board from 
time to time.
Retirement Benefits / Perquisites:
Contribution to Provident Fund: 12% of the monthly salary and 
allowances as above.
Contribution to: Pension Fund, Superannuation Fund, Gratuity 
Fund, Encashment of leave at the end of the tenure of appointment 
as per the rules of the Company (These shall not be included in 
the computation of remuneration or ceiling on the perquisites).
Medical Reimbursement Expenses: For self and family including 
premium payable for medical insurance.
Personal Accident Insurance: As per the rules of the Company.
Leave Travel Concession: For self and family, thrice in a year as 
per the rules of the Company.
Fee for clubs: Subject to maximum of two clubs excluding 
admission and life membership fees.
Others:
1.	
Telephone including internet at residence on monthly basis.
2.	
For the business trips both domestic and abroad on 
actual basis.
3.	
Such other allowances, perquisites, benefits and amenities 
as may be provided by the Company to the top management 
from time to time.
For the purposes of calculating the ceiling on remuneration, 
perquisites shall be evaluated as per Income Tax Rules wherever 
applicable and in the absence of any such Rule, the same shall 
be evaluated at actual cost. The above said remuneration and 
3
perquisites shall be subject to the ceiling laid down in Sections 
197, 198 and all other applicable provisions of the Act, as may 
be amended from time to time.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT except for the aforesaid revision 
in salary, all other terms, and conditions of appointment of 
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120) as Whole time Director 
of the Company, as approved by the resolution passed by the 
Members of the Company through postal ballot on February 03, 
2023, shall remain unchanged.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 
Company (including any Committee of Directors) be and is 
hereby authorised to vary and/ or revise the remuneration of 
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120), Whole-time Director of the 
Company within the overall limits under the Act subject to such 
other approval that may be necessary and to do all such acts, 
deeds and things and execute all such documents, instruments 
and writings as may be required and to delegate all or any of its 
powers herein conferred to any Committee of Directors to give 
effect to the aforesaid Resolution.”
Item no.6 - To consider and approve the increase in 
the ceiling limit on total holdings of Foreign Portfolio 
Investors (FPIs) through primary or secondary market 
routes, up to an aggregate limit of 74% of the Company’s 
paid-up share capital.
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as 
a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) read with the Foreign 
Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019, as 
applicable, including the regulations, guidelines and circulars 
issued thereunder, and subject to all applicable approval(s), 
permission(s), sanction(s), consent(s) and intimation(s), as may be 
required including, if required, the approval of the Reserve Bank of 
India (“RBI”), and subject to such condition(s) as may be prescribed 
by the RBI, or any other statutory regulatory authorities, 
while granting such approval(s), permission(s), sanction(s) and 
consent(s), as may be required, the consent of the members of 
the Company be and is hereby accorded to increase the limit 
of investment by Foreign Portfolio Investors (“FPIs”), as defined 
under the relevant regulations by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, to acquire and hold Equity Shares of the Company, 
by purchase or acquisition through primary or secondary market 
route, and under the ‘Foreign Portfolio Investment Scheme’, up 
to an aggregate limit of 74% of the paid-up share capital of 
the Company.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and is 
hereby severally authorised to execute all such documents, 
deeds, intimations and writings as may be required for the 
aforesaid purpose and which it may deem fit in the interest of 
the Company, to delegate all or any its powers herein conferred 
by this resolution to any Committee of Director or Directors or 
any one or more executives of the Company, and do all such acts, 
deeds and things as may be deemed necessary in order to give 
effect to the above resolution.”
Item no. 7 - To consider and approve ‘Manappuram Finance 
Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2025’
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following resolution as 
a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 62(1)(b) 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rules made thereunder, the provisions of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations 2021, as amended and enacted 
from time to time read with all circulars and notifications issued 
thereunder (“SBEB Regulations”), the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“LODR Regulations”), and the relevant 
provisions of Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Manappuram Finance Limited (“Company”) and subject to such 
other laws, rules, approvals, permissions and sanctions as may 
be applicable and subject to such conditions and modifications 
as may be prescribed or imposed while granting such approvals, 
permissions, sanctions, the consent of the members of the 
Company be and is hereby accorded to the introduction, 
adoption and implementation of ‘Manappuram Finance Limited – 
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2025’ (“ESOP Scheme 2025” 
or “Scheme”) the salient features of which are furnished in the 
explanatory statement annexed to this notice, and authorising 
the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred 
to as the “Board” which term shall be deemed to include 
any committee, including the Nomination, Compensation and 
Corporate Governance Committee (“Committee”) which the 
Board has constituted) to create, offer, issue, grant and allot from 
time to time, in one or more tranches, employee stock options 
(“Options”) not exceeding 2,06,44,749 (Two Crore Six Lakhs 
Forty-four Thousand Seven Hundred Forty-nine), to or for the 
benefit of such eligible employees of the Company, exclusively 
working in India or outside, as determined in terms of the Scheme, 
exercisable into not more than 2,06,44,749 (Two Crore Six 
Lakhs Forty-four Thousand Seven Hundred Forty-nine) equity 
shares of face value of `2/- (Rupees Two only) each fully paid-up 
(“Shares”)(subject to adjustments), where one Option would 
convert into one Share upon exercise, on such terms and in such 
manner, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable laws 
and the provisions of the Scheme.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Shares to be issued and 
allotted as mentioned hereinbefore shall rank pari passu with 
the then existing Shares of the Company.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case of any corporate action(s) 
such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger and sale of division and 
others, if any additional Options to be granted by the Company, 
for the purpose of making a fair and reasonable adjustment to 
the Options granted earlier, in accordance with the terms of 
the Scheme, the ceiling of total number of Options and Shares 
specified above shall be deemed to be increased to the extent of 
such additional Options granted.”
4
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case the Shares of the Company 
are either sub-divided or consolidated, then the number of shares 
to be allotted and the price of acquisition payable by the eligible 
employees under the Scheme shall automatically stand reduced 
or augmented, as the case may be, in the same proportion as the 
face value per Share shall bear to the revised face value of the 
Shares of the Company after such sub-division or consolidation, 
without affecting any other rights or obligations of the said 
eligible employees.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Company shall conform to 
the accounting policies, guidelines or accounting standards as 
prescribed from time to time under the SBEB Regulations and 
any other applicable laws and regulations to the extent relevant 
and applicable to the Scheme.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorised to take necessary steps for listing of the securities 
allotted under the Scheme on the stock exchanges, where the 
equity shares of the Company are listed in due compliance with 
SBEB Regulations and other applicable laws.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Committee and the Board, 
be and is hereby authorised at any time to modify, change, 
vary, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Scheme subject 
to the compliance with the applicable laws and regulations and 
further subject to consent of the shareholders by way of special 
resolution to the extent required under applicable laws, and to 
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem fit 
at its absolute discretion, for such purpose and also to settle 
any issues, questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this 
regard and further to execute all such documents, writings and 
to give such directions and or instructions as may be necessary 
or expedient to give effect to such modification, change, variation, 
alteration, amendment, suspension or termination of the Scheme 
and do all other things incidental and ancillary thereof in 
conformity with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, SBEB 
Regulations, the relevant provisions of the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of the Company and any other applicable 
laws in force to give effect to this resolution.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorised to delegate all or any powers conferred herein, to any 
committee of directors with a power to further delegate to any 
executives / officers of the company to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as also to execute such documents, writings 
etc. as may be necessary to give effect to this resolution subject 
to applicable laws.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the ESOP Scheme 2025 shall be 
administered and implemented by the Committee.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any director of the Company be 
and is hereby authorised to certify a copy of this resolution and 
issue the same to all concerned parties.”
Item no.8 - To consider and approve grant of employee 
stock options to the employees of subsidiary company 
(ies) of the Company under ‘Manappuram Finance 
Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2025’
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass  the following resolution as 
a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 62(1)
(b) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rules made thereunder, the provisions of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations 2021, as amended and 
enacted from time to time read with all circulars and notifications 
issued thereunder (“SBEB Regulations”), the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR Regulations”), the 
relevant provisions of Memorandum and Articles of Association 
of the Manappuram Finance Limited (“Company“) and subject 
to such other laws, rules, approvals, permissions and sanctions 
as may be applicable and subject to such conditions and 
modifications as may be prescribed or imposed while granting 
such approvals, permissions, sanctions, the consent of the 
members’ of the Company be and is hereby accorded for the 
extension of the benefits under the ‘Manappuram Finance 
Limited – Employee Stock Option Scheme 2025’ (“ESOP 
Scheme 2025” or “Scheme”) to the eligible employees of the 
subsidiary company(ies) of the Company, and to authorise the 
Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Board” which term shall be deemed to include any committee, 
including the Nomination, Compensation and Corporate 
Governance Committee (“Committee”) which the Board has 
constituted) to offer, issue, grant and allot from time to time, in 
one or more tranches, employee stock options (“Options”) under 
the Scheme, to the eligible employees of the subsidiary company 
of the Company, exclusively working in India or outside India, as 
determined in terms of the ESOP Scheme 2025, within the ceiling 
of total number of Options and equity shares of the Company 
of face value of `2/- (Rupees Two only) each (“Shares”), as 
specified in ESOP Scheme 2025 along with such other terms 
and in such manner, in accordance with the provisions of the 
applicable laws and the provisions of the Scheme.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Shares to be issued and 
allotted as mentioned hereinbefore shall rank pari passu with 
the then existing Shares of the Company.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case of any corporate action(s) 
such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger and sale of division and 
others, if any additional Options to be granted by the Company, 
for the purpose of making a fair and reasonable adjustment to 
the Options granted earlier, in accordance with the terms of 
the Scheme, the ceiling of total number of Options and Shares 
specified above shall be deemed to be increased to the extent of 
such additional Options granted.”
5
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case the Shares of the Company 
are either sub-divided or consolidated, then the number of 
Shares to be allotted and the price of acquisition payable by 
the eligible employees under the Scheme shall automatically 
stand reduced or augmented, as the case may be, in the same 
proportion as the face value per Share shall bear to the revised 
face value of the Shares of the Company after such sub-division 
or consolidation, without affecting any other rights or obligations 
of the said eligible employees.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Company shall conform to the 
accounting policies prescribed from time to time under the SBEB 
Regulations and any other applicable laws and regulations to the 
extent relevant and applicable to Scheme.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorised to take necessary steps for listing of the securities 
allotted under the Scheme on the stock exchanges, where the 
equity shares of the Company are listed in due compliance with 
SBEB Regulations and other applicable laws.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Committee and the Board, 
be and are hereby authorised at any time to modify, change, 
vary, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Scheme subject 
to the compliance with the applicable laws and regulations and 
further subject to consent of the shareholders by way of special 
resolution to the extent required under applicable laws, and to 
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem fit 
at its absolute discretion, for such purpose and also to settle 
any issues, questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this 
regard and further to execute all such documents, writings and 
to give such directions and or instructions as may be necessary 
or expedient to give effect to such modification, change, variation, 
alteration, amendment, suspension or termination of the Scheme 
and do all other things incidental and ancillary thereof in 
conformity with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, SBEB 
Regulations, the relevant provisions of the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of the Company and any other applicable 
laws in force to give effect to this resolution.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorised to delegate all or any powers conferred herein, to any 
committee of directors with a power to further delegate to any 
executives / officers of the company to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as also to execute such documents, writings 
etc. as may be necessary to give effect to this resolution subject 
to applicable laws.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the ESOP Scheme 2025 shall be 
administered and implemented by the Committee.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any director of the Company be 
and is hereby authorised to certify a copy of this resolution and 
issue the same to all concerned parties.”
	
By order of the Board of Directors
For Manappuram Finance Limited
Sd/-
Place: Valapad, Thrissur 	
CS Manoj Kumar V R
Date: 11th July, 2025	
 Company Secretary
6
Notes:
1. 	
Proxy
	
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is 
entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of 
himself/ herself and the proxy need not be a member of 
the company.
	
Proxies in order to be effective, should be duly stamped, 
completed, signed and deposited at the registered office 
of the Company not less than 48 hours before the 
commencement of the meeting. Revenue Stamp should be 
affixed on the Proxy Form. Forms which are not stamped 
are liable to be considered as invalid. It is advisable that the 
Proxy holder’s signature may also be furnished in the Proxy 
Form, for identification purposes.
	
A person can act as a proxy on behalf of members not 
exceeding fifty (50) and holding in the aggregate not more 
than ten percent of the total share capital of the Company 
carrying voting rights. A member holding more than ten 
percent of the total share capital of the Company carrying 
voting rights may appoint a single person as proxy and such 
person shall not act as a proxy for any other person or 
shareholder.
2. 	 Explanatory Statement and Special Business
	
A Statement setting out material facts pursuant to Section 
102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of item no. 3 to 
8 is annexed hereto and forms part of this notice.
3. 	 Electronic dispatch of Notice and Annual Report
	
In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circular 
Nos. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 
May 12, 2020, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 
January 15, 2021, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated May 13, 2022, SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 
dated January 5, 2023 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/ 
CIR/2023/167 dated October 7, 2023 and other applicable 
circulars issued by Securities Exchange Board of India 
(collectively referred to as “SEBI Circulars”), Notice of 
the AGM and Annual Report is being send only through 
electronic mode to those members; based on benpos date, 
i.e., July 11, 2025, whose e-mail addresses are registered 
with the Company/ Depositories.
	
Members may note that the Notice and Annual Report 
for FY 2024-25 will also be available on the Company’s 
website www.manappuram.com and websites of the 
Stock Exchanges, i.e., BSE Limited and the National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
www.nseindia.com respectively.
4. 	 Particulars of Directors
	
The relevant details, pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in respect 
of Director seeking appointment/ re-appointment as set out 
at Item No. 2 & 4 at this AGM are also annexed to this Notice 
as Annexure No.1 & 2.
5. 	 Inspection of documents
	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of the 
Act, and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which 
the directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 
of the Act along with all documents referred to in the Notice 
will be available for inspection by the members from the 
date of circulation of this Notice up to the date of AGM. 
Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an 
email to cosecretary@manappuram.com
6. 	 Dematerialisation of Shares
	
SEBI has mandated the Listed Companies to process 
service requests (i.e., Request for issue of duplicate 
securities certificate, claim from unclaimed suspense 
account, renewal/ exchange of securities certificate, 
endorsement, sub-division/ splitting of securities 
certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ folios, 
transmission and transposition) for issue of securities 
in dematerialised form only, subject to folio being KYC 
compliant. Accordingly, Members are requested to submit 
duly filled and signed Form ISR-4. The Form is available on 
website of Company at https://www.manappuram.com/
know-your-forms-security-holders and RTA at https://
in.mpms.mufg.com/. [SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated May 7, 2024]
	
Further, transfer, transmission and transposition of securities 
shall be effected only in dematerialised form. In view of the 
same and to eliminate all risks associated with physical 
shares and avail various benefits of dematerialisation, 
Members are advised to dematerialise the shares held by 
them in physical form. Members can contact the Company/ 
RTA for assistance in this regard. [Regulation 40(1) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations]
7. 	
For the convenience of the Members and for proper 
conduct of the Meeting, entry to the place of the Meeting 
will be restricted by the Attendance Slip and photo id proof. 
Members are requested to write their Client ID and DP ID 
numbers/ Folio Number (as applicable) on the Attendance 
slip, affix their signature and hand it over at the entrance hall.
8.	
 Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”):
	
The name of the RTA changed from “Link Intime India 
Private Limited” to “MUFG Intime India Private Limited” 
(MUFG Intime/RTA) with effect from December 31, 2024, 
upon acquisition of Link group by Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & 
Banking Corporation.
9. 	
With effect from April 1, 2024, dividend to security holders 
(including holding securities in physical form), shall be 
paid only through electronic mode. Such payment shall 
be made upon folio being KYC compliant i.e., the PAN, 
7
contact details including mobile no., bank account details 
and specimen signature are registered with the RTA/ 
Company. [SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated May 7, 2024, read with SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/81 
dated June 10, 2024]
10. 	 General Awareness on Tax Deducted at Source 
(“TDS”) on dividend
	
For the prescribed rates for various categories, please 
refer to the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Finance Acts of 
the respective years. The shareholders are requested to 
update their PAN with the Depository Participants (DPs) (if 
shares held in dematerialised form) and the Company/ RTA 
(if shares are held in physical mode).
	
To claim exemption from Tax Deduction at Source (TDS), 
shareholders are requested to submit the requisite 
documents/ declarations by uploading them on the link: 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/formsreg/submission-of-
form-15g-15h.html. The necessary documents are 
available on the Company's website and can be accessed 
at https://www.manappuram.com/investors/notice-to-
shareholders?field_type_target_id=63.
	
For further details on the submission of exemption 
documents, members may refer to the email sent to their 
registered email address.
Category of 
Shareholder
Document(s) to be 
submitted/ uploaded
Resident 
individual 
shareholders with PAN* 
and whose income does not 
exceed maximum amount 
not chargeable to tax or 
who is not liable to pay 
income tax
i.	
Form No. 15G or
ii.	 Form No. 15H
Category of 
Shareholder
Document(s) to be 
submitted/ uploaded
Non-resident shareholders 
[including Foreign Portfolio 
Investors (FPIs)] who can 
avail beneficial rates under 
tax treaty between India 
and their country of tax 
residence
i.	
No Permanent 
Establishment Declaration
ii.	 Beneficial Ownership 
Declaration
iii.	  Tax Residency Certificate
iv.	 Copy of electronically filed 
Form 10F
v.	 Any other document which 
may be required
	
*If PAN is not correct/ invalid/ inoperative then tax will 
be deducted at higher rates and credit of TDS will not be 
available. [Section 206AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961]
11. 	 Unclaimed Dividends and IEPF
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with respective rules, Dividends, if not 
encashed for a period of 7 years from the date of transfer 
to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(“IEPF”). Further, the shares in respect of which dividend 
has remained unclaimed for 7 consecutive years or more 
from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account shall 
also be transferred to IEPF. In view of this, shareholders 
who have not encashed the dividend warrants/ cheques so 
far for the above years are requested to make their claim 
to the Company/ RTA immediately within the stipulated 
timeline. For more details, please see the link https: https://
www.manappuram.com/transfer-shares-iepf.
	
The Members whose unclaimed dividends and/ or shares 
have been transferred to IEPF, may contact the Company 
or RTA and submit the required documents for issue of 
Entitlement Letter. The Members can attach the Entitlement 
Letter and other required documents and file web Form 
IEPF-5 for claiming the dividend and/ or shares available 
on www.mca.gov.in.
	
Details of Unclaimed Dividend for the last Seven Years:
Financial Year
Date of Declaration of 
Dividend
Dividend Amount 
per share (` )
Dividend yield 
(in %)
Last date for claiming unpaid 
dividend
2019
May 18, 2018
0.50
25.00%
June 22, 2025
2019
August 09, 2018
0.55
27.50%
September 13, 2025
2019
November 06, 2018
0.55
27.50%
December 11, 2025
2019
February 06, 2019
0.55
27.50%
March 13, 2026
2020
May 15, 2019
0.55
27.50%
June 19, 2026
2020
August 13, 2019
0.55
27.50%
September 17, 2026
2020
November 06, 2019
0.55
27.50%
December 11, 2026
2020
January 28, 2020
0.55
27.50%
March 03, 2027
2020
February 27, 2020
0.55
27.50%
April 02, 2027
2021
November 06, 2020
0.60
30.00%
December 11, 2027
2021
January 29, 2021
0.65
32.50%
March 05, 2028
2022
May 26, 2021
0.75
37.50%
June 30, 2028
8
Financial Year
Date of Declaration of 
Dividend
Dividend Amount 
per share (` )
Dividend yield 
(in %)
Last date for claiming unpaid 
dividend
2022
August 10, 2021
0.75
37.50%
September 14, 2028
2022
November 13, 2021
0.75
37.50%
December 18, 2028
2022
February 14, 2022
0.75
37.50%
March 21, 2029
2023
May 18, 2022
0.75
37.50%
June 22, 2029
2023
August 04, 2022
0.75
37.50%
September 08, 2029
2023
November 12, 2022
0.75
37.50%
December 17, 2029
2023
February 03, 2023
0.75
37.50%
March 10, 2030
2024
May 12, 2023
0.75
37.50%
June 16, 2030
2024
August 10, 2023
0.80
40.00%
September 14, 2030
2024
November 13, 2023
0.85
42.50%
December 18, 2030
2024
February 07, 2024
0.90
45.00%
March 13, 2031
2025
May 24, 2024
1.00
50.00%
June 29, 2031
2025
August 13, 2024
1.00
50.00%
September 18, 2031
2025
November 05, 2024
1.00
50.00%
December 11, 2031
2025
February 13, 2025
1.00
50.00%
March 20, 2032
2026
May 09, 2025
0.50
25.00%
June 13, 2032
12. 	 Members to intimate change in their details:
	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, pertaining 
to their name, postal address, e-mail ID, telephone/ mobile 
no., PAN, mandates, choice of nominations, power of 
attorney, bank details viz., name of the bank and branch 
details, bank account, MICR code, IFSC code, etc.
	
a.	
For shares held in electronic mode: to their DPs
	
b.	
For shares held in physical mode: to the Company/ 
RTA in prescribed Form ISR-1 and other forms. 
[SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
SECFATF/P/CIR/2023/169 dated October 12, 2023]
	
The facility for making nomination is available for 
the Members in respect of the shares held by them. 
Members who have not yet registered their nomination 
are requested to register the same by submitting Form No. 
SH-13. [Section 72 of the Act]
	
If a member desires to opt out or cancel the earlier 
nomination and record a fresh nomination, he/ she may 
submit the same in Form ISR-3 or SH-14 as the case may 
be. The said forms can be downloaded from the Company’s 
website <<weblink>>. Members are requested to submit 
the said details to their DP in case the shares are held by 
them in dematerialised form and to RTA in case the shares 
are held in physical form.
13. 	 Members may kindly update regularly the changes in bank 
account with the following information in your DP account 
for the shares held in dematerialised form and with RTA in 
case of shares held in physical form;
	
-	
Bank account Number in full,
	
-	
MICR Code,
	
-	
IFS Code,
	
-	
Full name of the Bank and address of the branch,
	
-	
email address.
	
The correct and complete particulars will help us to 
serve you better by timely credit of your future dividends 
immediately on payment by means of electronic credit.
14. 	 Consolidated of folios:
	
Members holding more than one physical folios in identical 
order of names are requested to submit Form ISR-4 along 
with requisite KYC documents and share certificates to 
the Company/ RTA for consolidation of holdings in one 
folio. The consolidated share certificate will be issued in 
dematerialised form only.
15. 	 Dispute Resolution:
	
SEBI has established a common Online Dispute Resolution 
Portal (“ODR Portal - https://smartodr.in/login”) to 
raise disputes arising in the Indian Securities Market. 
Post exhausting the option to resolve their grievances with 
the RTA/Company directly and through SCORES platform, 
the investors can initiate dispute resolution through the 
ODR Portal. [SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/
OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195 dated July 31, 2023]
9
16. 	 Members holding shares in dematerialised form are 
requested to write their client ID and DP ID Numbers in 
attendance slip and in all their correspondence with the 
Company. Those who hold shares in physical form are 
requested to write their folio number in the attendance slip.
17. 	 Members who would like to ask questions on accounts are 
requested to send their questions to the Registered Office 
of the Company at least 10 days before the date of Annual 
General Meeting to enable the Company to prepare suitable 
replies to such questions.
18. 	 Instructions for e-voting:
i.	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of 
the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Amendment Rules, 2015 and Regulation 44 of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015, the Company is pleased to 
offer the facility of voting through electronic means, 
to all its Members to enable them to cast their votes 
electronically. Members who have not voted through 
electronic means or members who have no access to 
electronic voting can vote at the AGM, electronically. 
The cut-off date for recognising voting rights of 
members to vote by electronic means (remote 
e-voting) as well as at the Annual General Meeting 
is Thursday, August 07, 2025, in terms of Companies 
(Management and Administration) Amendment 
Rules, 2015 (‘cut-off date’).
ii.	
The remote e-voting period commences on Monday, 
August 11, 2025 from 9.00 a.m. (IST) and ends 
on Wednesday, August 13, 2025 till 5.00 p.m. 
(IST). During this period, Members holding shares 
either in physical form or in dematerialised form, 
as on Thursday, August 07, 2025, i.e. cut-off date, 
may cast their vote electronically. The e-voting 
module shall be disabled for voting thereafter. 
Members attending the AGM who have not previously 
cast their votes through remote e-voting and are not 
otherwise restricted from doing so shall be eligible 
to exercise their voting rights through the e-voting 
system during the AGM.
iii.	
A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date 
should treat this Notice for information purposes only.
iv.	
The members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend/ participate 
in the AGM but shall not be entitled to cast their 
vote again.
v.	
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion to 
their shares in the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as on the cut-off date.
vi.	
In case of individual shareholders holding securities in 
dematerialised mode and who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes a Member of the Company 
after sending of the Notice and holding shares as of 
the cut-off date may follow steps mentioned under 
“Login method for remote e-voting.
vii.	
In case of joint holders attending the meeting, the 
Member whose name appears as the first holder in 
the order of names as per the Register of Members 
of the Company as on Thursday, August 07, 2025 
(cut-off date) will be entitled to vote during the AGM.
viii.	 The Company has appointed Mr. Suresh M V, FCS, 
Senior Partner, SMS & Co Company Secretaries LLP 
to act as the Scrutiniser for conducting the electronic 
voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
ix.	
At the AGM, prior to/ at the end of the discussion on the 
resolutions on which voting is to be held, the Chairman 
shall, with the assistance of the Scrutiniser, order 
electronic voting system for all those members who 
are present but have not cast their votes electronically 
using the remote e-voting facility.
x.	
The Scrutiniser shall, after the conclusion of electronic 
voting at the AGM, count the votes cast at the AGM 
and thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote 
e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not 
in employment of the Company. The Scrutiniser shall 
submit a consolidated Scrutiniser’s Report of the total 
votes cast in favour of or against, if any, not later than 
two working days after the conclusion of the AGM to 
the Chairman/ Managing Director of the Company. 
The Chairman/ Managing Director, or any other person 
authorised by the Chairman/ Managing Director, shall 
declare the result of the voting forthwith.
xi.	
Institutional shareholders/ Corporate shareholders 
(i.e., other than individuals, HUFs, NRIs, etc.) are 
required to send a scanned copy (PDF/ JPG Format) of 
their respective Board or Governing Body Resolution/ 
Authorisation etc., authorising their representative 
to attend the AGM physically on their behalf and to 
vote through remote e-voting. The said Resolution/ 
Authorisation shall be sent to the Scrutiniser by e-mail 
on its registered e-mail ID to smscollp@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to cosecretary@manappuram.
com. Institutional shareholders/ Corporate 
shareholders can also upload their Board Resolution/ 
Power of Attorney/ Authority Letter, etc. by clicking on 
“Upload Board Resolution/ Authority Letter” displayed 
under “e-voting” tab in their login.
10
xii.	
The result, along with the Scrutiniser’s Report, will be 
placed on the Company’s website, www.manappuram.
com and on the website of Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited (‘CDSL’) immediately after the result is 
declared by the Chairman/ Managing Director or any 
other person authorised by the Chairman/ Managing 
Director, and the same shall be communicated to 
BSE & NSE.
xiii.	 The facility for voting electronically, will also be made 
available at the AGM and the members who have not 
already cast their votes by remote e-voting shall 
be able to exercise their right at the AGM through 
electronic voting system using DP ID or PAN or Folio 
No. as user ID and onetime password which will 
be shared with Members upon their registration at 
the AGM. Members who already cast their votes by 
remote e-voting prior to the AGM may attend the AGM 
but shall not be entitled to cast their votes again.
xiv.	 Any person who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes its member after the dispatch of the notice 
for the annual general meeting and continues to hold 
the shares of the Company as on the cut-off date may 
obtain login id and password by sending a request 
at coimbatore@in.mpms.mufg.com or helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com
xv.	
The Company has engaged the services of CDSL as 
an authorised agency to provide the remote e-voting 
and electronic voting facilities at the venue of AGM. 
The procedure and instructions for voting through 
electronic (remote e-voting) means are as follows:
THE INTRUCTIONS OF SHAREHOLDERS FOR REMOTE 
E-VOTING:
Step 1: 	
Access through Depositories CDSL/NSDL e-Voting 
system in case of individual shareholders holding 
shares in demat mode.
Step 2: 	
Access through CDSL e-Voting system in case of 
shareholders holding shares in physical mode and 
non-individual shareholders in demat mode.
(i)	
The voting period begins on Monday, August 11, 2025 
(9:00 a.m.IST) and ends on Wednesday, August 13, 
2025 (5:00 p.m.IST). During this period shareholders’ 
of the Company, holding shares either in physical form 
or in dematerialised form, as on the cut-off date (record 
date) of Thursday, August 7, 2025 may cast their vote 
electronically. The e-voting module shall be disabled by 
CDSL for voting thereafter.
(ii)	
Shareholders who have already voted prior to the meeting 
date would not be entitled to vote at the meeting venue.
(iii)	
Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated 09.12.2020, under Regulation 
44 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, listed entities are required to provide remote e-voting 
facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ 
resolutions. However, it has been observed that the 
participation by the public non-institutional shareholders/ 
retail shareholders is at a negligible level.
	
Currently, there are multiple e-voting service providers 
(ESPs) providing e-voting facility to listed entities in 
India. This necessitates registration on various ESPs and 
maintenance of multiple user IDs and passwords by the 
shareholders.
	
In order to increase the efficiency of the voting process, 
pursuant to a public consultation, it has been decided to 
enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, by way 
of a single login credential, through their demat accounts/ 
websites of Depositories/ Depository Participants. 
Demat account holders would be able to cast their vote 
without having to register again with the ESPs, thereby not 
only facilitating seamless authentication but also enhancing 
ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process.
Step 1 : 	 Access through Depositories CDSL/NSDL e-Voting 
system in case of individual shareholders holding 
shares in demat mode.
(iv)	 In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting 
facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed 
to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are 
advised to update their mobile number and email Id in their 
demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
11
Pursuant to abovesaid SEBI Circular, Login method for e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in Demat mode 
CDSL/NSDL is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in Demat 
mode with CDSL Depository
1)	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. 
The users to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit cdsl website www.cdslindia.com and 
click on login icon & My Easi New (Token) Tab.
2)	 After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On 
clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service 
provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting 
during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting 
Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3)	 If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at cdsl website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login & My Easi New (Token) Tab and then click on registration option.
4)	 Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number 
and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat 
Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the 
evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL Depository
1)	 If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of NSDL. 
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial 
Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section. A new screen will open. You 
will have to enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to 
see e-Voting services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able 
to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be 
re-directed to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period.
2)	 If the user is not  registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com.  Select “Register Online for IDeAS “Portal or click   at https://eservices.nsdl.
com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3)	 Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ 
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat 
account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. 
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can 
see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period.
4)	 For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., Verification 
code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/mobile number and click on 
login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you 
can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be 
re-directed to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their 
Depository Participants (DP)
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. After Successful login, you will be able to see e-Voting 
option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after 
successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company name or e-Voting 
service provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting service provider website for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period.
12
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password 
option available at abovementioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository 
i.e. CDSL and NSDL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding securities in Demat mode 
with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no. 1800 21 09911
Individual Shareholders holding securities in Demat mode 
with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk 
by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at : 022 - 4886 7000 
and 022 - 2499 7000
Step 2: 	
Access through CDSL e-Voting system in case of shareholders holding shares in physical mode and non-individual 
shareholders in demat mode.
(v)	
Login method for Remote e-Voting for Physical shareholders and shareholders other than individual holding in Demat form.
	
1)	
The shareholders should log on to the e-voting website www.evotingindia.com.
	
2)	
Click on “Shareholders” module.
	
3)	
Now enter your User ID
	
	
a.	
For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID,
	
	
b.	
For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID,
	
	
c.	
Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form should enter Folio Number registered with the Company.
	
4)	
Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on Login.
	
5)	
If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged on to www.evotingindia.com and voted on an earlier e-voting of 
any company, then your existing password is to be used.
	
6)	
If you are a first-time user follow the steps given below:
For Physical shareholders and other than individual shareholders holding shares in 
Demat.
PAN
Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric *PAN issued by Income Tax Department (Applicable for 
both demat shareholders as well as physical shareholders)
•	
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the Company/Depository Participant 
are requested to use the sequence number sent by Company/RTA or contact Company/
RTA.
Dividend Bank Details OR 
Date of Birth (DOB)
Enter the Dividend Bank Details or Date of Birth (in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded in your 
demat account or in the company records in order to login.
•	
If both the details are not recorded with the depository or company, please enter the 
member id / folio number in the Dividend Bank details field.
(vi)	 After entering these details appropriately, click on “SUBMIT” tab.
(vii)	 Shareholders holding shares in physical form will then directly reach the Company selection screen. However, shareholders 
holding shares in demat form will now reach ‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are required to mandatorily enter their 
login password in the new password field. Kindly note that this password is to be also used by the demat holders for voting for 
resolutions of any other company on which they are eligible to vote, provided that company opts for e-voting through CDSL 
platform. It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential.
(viii)	 For shareholders holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for e-voting on the resolutions contained in 
this Notice.
(ix)	 Click on the EVSN for the relevant <Manappuram Finance Limited> on which you choose to vote.
13
(x)	
On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION 
DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option “YES/ 
NO” for voting. Select the option YES or NO as desired. 
The option YES implies that you assent to the Resolution 
and option NO implies that you dissent to the Resolution.
(xi)	 Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK” if you wish to view 
the entire Resolution details.
(xii)	 After selecting the resolution, you have decided to vote on, 
click on “SUBMIT”. A confirmation box will be displayed. 
If you wish to confirm your vote, click on “OK”, else to 
change your vote, click on “CANCEL” and accordingly 
modify your vote.
(xiii)	 Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
(xiv)	 You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on 
“Click here to print” option on the Voting page.
(xv)	 If a demat account holder has forgotten the login password 
then Enter the User ID and the image verification code and 
click on Forgot Password & enter the details as prompted 
by the system.
(xvi)	 There is also an optional provision to upload BR/POA if any 
uploaded, which will be made available to scrutiniser for 
verification.
(xvii)	Additional Facility for Non – Individual Shareholders and 
Custodians –For Remote Voting only.
	
	
Non-Individual shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to log on to 
www.evotingindia.com and register themselves in the 
“Corporates” module.
	
	
A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the 
stamp and sign of the entity should be emailed to 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com.
	
	
After receiving the login details a Compliance 
User should be created using the admin login and 
password. The Compliance User would be able to link 
the account(s) for which they wish to vote on.
	
	
The list of accounts linked in the login will be 
mapped automatically & can be delink in case of any 
wrong mapping.
	
	
It is Mandatory that, a scanned copy of the Board 
Resolution and Power of Attorney (POA) which they 
have issued in favour of the Custodian, if any, should 
be uploaded in PDF format in the system for the 
scrutiniser to verify the same.
	
	
Alternatively Non Individual shareholders are required 
mandatory to send the relevant Board Resolution/ 
Authority letter etc. together with attested specimen 
signature of the duly authorised signatory who are 
authorised to vote, to the Scrutiniser and to the 
Company at the email address viz; cosecretary@
manappuram.com, if they have voted from individual 
tab & not uploaded same in the CDSL e-voting system 
for the scrutiniser to verify the same.
PROCESS FOR THOSE SHAREHOLDERS WHOSE 
EMAIL/MOBILE NO. ARE NOT REGISTERED WITH THE 
COMPANY/DEPOSITORIES.
1. 	
For Physical shareholders- please provide necessary 
details like Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy 
of the share certificate (front and back), PAN (self-attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned 
copy of Aadhar Card) by email to Company/RTA email id.
2. 	
For Demat shareholders -, Please update your email id & 
mobile no. with your respective Depository Participant (DP)
3. 	
For Individual Demat shareholders – Please update your 
email id & mobile no. with your respective Depository 
Participant (DP) which is mandatory while e-Voting & joining 
virtual meetings through Depository.
If you have any queries or issues regarding e-Voting from the CDSL 
e-Voting System, you can write an email to helpdesk.evoting@
cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 21 09911
All grievances connected with the facility for voting by 
electronic means may be addressed to Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. 
Manager, (CDSL, ) Central Depository Services (India) Limited, 
A Wing, 25th Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill Compounds, 
N M Joshi Marg, Lower Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 or send 
an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or call at toll free 
no. 1800 21 09911
14
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013
(As required under Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the following explanatory statement sets out 
all material facts relating to the business mentioned under Item Nos. 3 to 8 of the accompanying Notice)
Item No. 3:
As per the recent SEBI (LODR) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, listed entities must appoint or re-appoint Secretarial 
Auditor; either an individual for one term of five consecutive years, 
or a firm for two terms of five consecutive years each, subject 
to approval of shareholders of the Company. Further, as per 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a peer-reviewed firm can be 
appointed as Secretarial Auditor for not more than two terms 
of five consecutive years. Accordingly, the Board of Directors 
of the Company at its meeting held on May 9, 2025, based 
on recommendation of the Audit Committee, after evaluating 
and considering various factors such as industry experience, 
competency of the audit team, efficiency in conduct of audit, 
independence, etc., has approved the appointment of KSR & Co 
Company Secretaries LLP (“KSR”), a peer reviewed firm (Firm 
Registration No. P2008TN006400) as Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company for a term of five consecutive years commencing from 
FY 2025-26 till FY 2029-30, subject to approval of the Members 
of the Company.
KSR & Co Company Secretaries LLP (“KSR”) is a renowned 
full-service Company Secretaries firm based in Coimbatore 
specialising in corporate law, with expertise spanning various 
domains. With a proven track record in corporate laws, securities 
laws, and other regulatory areas, KSR has served clients across 
diverse sectors, and their expertise has earned the trust of 
industry leaders across sectors like banking, manufacturing, 
pharmaceuticals, and public utilities. The partners and the team 
have set an excellent track record in the Field of Corporate 
Laws, Securities Laws, Foreign Exchange Management Laws, 
Intellectual Property Laws, Insolvency and Bankruptcy law, 
Industrial and Labour Laws, Environmental Laws. The firm 
undertakes Board Process Audits, Corporate Governance Audits, 
Secretarial Audits, Internal Audits on Functions and Activities, 
Corporate Actions/ Transactions based Due Diligence 
Audits. The Firm is acclaimed for its expertise in mergers and 
acquisitions - both Regulatory Compliance’s and Legal aspects 
as well as conceptualisation strategies. Litigation Management 
in Shareholder Disputes, Board Disputes, Oppression and 
Mismanagement Cases, Commercial Arbitration, Mediation and 
Conciliation. KSR was declared the Best Practising Company 
Secretaries Firm this year and has also won the Best Secretarial 
Audit Report award in the past. KSR was appointed as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company for conducting secretarial 
audits for the financial years 2017 to 2025.
KSR has given its consent to act as secretarial auditors and 
confirmed that it holds a valid peer review certificate, as required 
by the amended SEBI LODR regulations. For the financial year 
ending March 31, 2026, KSR will be paid a remuneration of 
Rs.  7,70,000.00 (Rupees Seven Lakhs Seventy Thousand Only) 
plus applicable taxes and out-of-pocket expenses for secretarial 
audit services and for subsequent year(s) of their term, such 
fees as may be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors 
and KSR. There are no material changes in the proposed fees 
payable to the Secretarial Auditor compared to the fees paid 
in the previous financial year. The Company may also engage 
KSR for additional services, including certifications and other 
professional services as permitted under the Act and rules & 
regulations made thereunder for which separate remuneration 
will be paid as mutually agreed upon and approved by the Board. 
The fees for such services will be determined by the Board, 
based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and in 
consultation with the Secretarial Auditors.
KSR has confirmed that the firm is not disqualified and is eligible 
to be appointed as Secretarial Auditors in terms of Regulation 
24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The services to be rendered 
by KSR as Secretarial Auditors is within the purview of the said 
regulation read with SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/
CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out at Item 
No. 3 for approval by the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their respective relatives are concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in passing the proposed 
Resolution.
Item No.4:
As per Section 149 (10) of the Act, an Independent Director 
shall hold office for a term up to two terms of five consecutive 
years each on the Board of a Company but shall be eligible for 
re-appointment on passing of a special resolution by the company 
and disclosure of such appointment in the Board’s report.
Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810) was 
appointed as an Independent Director of the Company by the 
members at the Annual General Meeting held on August 28, 2020, 
pursuant to Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), 
and read with the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 (the “Rules”), for a first term of five years 
up to August 27, 2025.
Based on his performance evaluation and recommendation 
of Nomination, Compensation and Corporate Governance 
Committee (“NCCGC”) and in terms of provisions of the provisions 
of Sections 149, 150, 152 read with schedule IV and all other 
applicable provisions of the Act and Listing Regulations and as 
per Articles of Associations of the Company, Mr. Harshan Kollara 
15
Sankarakutty is eligible for re-appointment as the Independent 
Director and had offered himself for re-appointment. The Board 
of Directors recommends the proposal to re-appoint him as 
Independent Non-Executive Director for a term as mentioned in 
respective Special Resolution.
The Company has received a notice under Section 160 of the Act 
from a member proposing Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty’s 
candidature for re-appointment as an Independent Director. 
Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty has provided a declaration of 
independence, and the Company has also received his consent 
to act as a director in Form DIR-2 and intimation in Form DIR-8 
in terms of the Appointment Rules to the effect that he is not 
disqualified under sub-section (2) of Section164 of the Act.
In the opinion of the Board, Independent Director fulfils the 
conditions specified under the Act, read with the Rules and 
Regulation 16 (1)(b) of the Listing Regulations including for 
re-appointment as an Independent Director of the Company 
and are independent of management. A copy of draft letter of 
appointment for independent director is available for inspection 
at the Registered Office of the Company during the business 
hours on any working day. Further he possesses diverse skills, 
leadership capabilities, expertise in governance and finance, 
and risk management, which are key requirements for his role. 
The Board considers that the association of the Independent 
Director would be immense benefit to the Company considering 
their expertise and experience and it is desirable to avail services 
of these Independent Director.
The remuneration of Independent Directors shall be governed 
by the Company’s Board Appointments, Composition, and 
Compensation Policy, the summary of the same is annexed to 
the Directors’ Report and forms part of the annual report.
Pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
which provides that “no listed entity shall appoint a person or 
continue the directorship of any person as a non-executive 
director who has attained the age of seventy-five years unless 
a special resolution is passed to that effect, in which case the 
explanatory statement annexed to the notice for such motion 
shall indicate the justification for appointing such a person”. 
Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty will attain the age of 75 years 
during his proposed second term and in view of the same, the 
Board of Directors recommends passing of special resolution as 
set out at item no.4 for his continuation as Director. The Board 
believes that his experience, expertise, and mature advice have 
been significantly beneficial to the Company, and his continuation 
as an Independent Director would be in the best interest of the 
Company. Therefore, the Board recommends seeking member 
approval for his re-appointment and continuation as a director, 
notwithstanding his attaining the age of 75 years during 
his tenure.
As his first term is due to expire on August 27, 2025, the 
Nomination, Compensation and Corporate Governance 
Committee (“NCCGC”) and Board of Directors at its meeting held 
on May 9, 2025, and July 11, 2025, respectively evaluated his 
performance and considered his knowledge, acumen, expertise, 
and substantial contribution to the Company during his tenure. 
Based on this evaluation, the NCCGC and Board of Directors have 
recommended his re-appointment for a second term of five years 
effective from August 28, 2025, to August 27, 2030.
Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty has confirmed that he is 
not aware of any circumstances that could impair his ability to 
discharge his duties and is not debarred from holding the office 
of Director by virtue of any SEBI order. He has also confirmed 
compliance with the rules regarding registration with the 
data bank of Independent Directors maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs. Additionally, Mr. Harshan Kollara 
Sankarakutty has declared that he continues to meet the criteria 
of independence as prescribed under the Act and SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
Additional information on the directors recommended for 
appointment or re-appointment, as required under Regulation 
36 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, and applicable Secretarial Standards issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), is provided 
separately in Annexure - 1.
No director, key managerial personnel, or their relatives, except 
Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty, to whom the resolution 
relates, is interested in or concerned, financially or otherwise, in 
passing the proposed resolution set out in item no. 4.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out at 
Item No. 4 for approval by the Members as a Special Resolution.
Item No.5:
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120) was appointed as the 
Whole-time Director of the Company, effective January 1, 2023, 
for a term of five years, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed 
by the members through postal ballot on February 3, 2023, 
and has since been responsible for overseeing the company’s 
business operations, including various IT/ digital initiatives. 
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination, Compensation 
and Corporate Governance Committee of the Company (“NCCGC”) 
and considering her performance, the Board of Directors of the 
Company (“the Board”), in its meeting held on May 9, 2025, has 
revised and increased her remuneration with effect from April 1, 
2025, subject to the approval of the Members of the company, 
which shall not exceed the limits as prescribed under Reg. 17 of 
Listing Regulations and Section 197 of Companies Act, 2013, as 
amended from time to time.
16
The details of the existing and proposed revision in the remuneration of Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120) by way of an increment 
with effect from 01st April 2025 are as under:
Particulars
Existing remuneration p.a. (in ` )
Revised Remuneration p.a. (in ` )
Salary & Allowances:
Rs. 12,50,000/- (Rupees Twelve Lakhs Fifty 
Thousand only) per month with minimum annual 
increment of 10 %.
Rs. 20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only) per 
month with minimum annual increment of 10%.
Commission
Not exceeding 1% of net profits of the Company 
calculated as per the provisions of Section 198 
of the Companies Act, 2013. The quantum of 
commission to be determined by the Board of 
Directors is subject to the norms framed by the 
Board from time to time.
Not exceeding 1% of net profits of the Company 
calculated as per the provisions of Section 198 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. The quantum of commission to 
be determined by the Board of Directors is subject 
to the norms framed by the Board from time to time.
Retirement Benefits/ 
Perquisites:
Contribution to Provident Fund: @ 12% of the 
monthly salary and allowances as above.
Contribution to: Pension Fund, Superannuation 
Fund, Gratuity Fund, Encashment of leave at the 
end of the tenure of appointment as per the rules 
of the Company (These shall not be included in 
the computation of remuneration or ceiling on the 
perquisites).
Medical Reimbursement Expenses: For self and 
family including premium payable for medical 
insurance.
Personal Accident Insurance: As per the rules of 
the Company.
Leave Travel Concession: For self and family, 
thrice in a year as per the rules of the Company.
Fee for clubs: Subject to maximum of two clubs 
excluding admission and life membership fees.
Others:
1. 	 Telephone including internet at residence on 
monthly basis.
2. 	 For the business trips both domestic and 
abroad on actual basis.
3. 	 Such other allowances, perquisites, benefits 
and amenities as may be provided by the 
Company to the top management from time to 
time.
For the purposes of calculating the ceiling on 
remuneration, perquisites shall be evaluated 
as per Income Tax Rules wherever applicable 
and in the absence of any such Rule, the same 
shall be evaluated at actual cost. The above said 
remuneration and perquisites shall be subject to 
the ceiling laid down in Sections 197, 198 and 
all other applicable provisions of the Act or the 
Listing Regulations as may be amended from time 
to time.
Contribution to Provident Fund: 12% of the monthly 
salary and allowances as above.
Contribution to: Pension Fund, Superannuation 
Fund, Gratuity Fund, Encashment of leave at the 
end of the tenure of appointment as per the rules 
of the Company (These shall not be included in 
the computation of remuneration or ceiling on the 
perquisites).
Medical Reimbursement Expenses: For self and 
family including premium payable for medical 
insurance.
Personal Accident Insurance: As per the rules of the 
Company.
Leave Travel Concession: For self and family, thrice 
in a year as per the rules of the Company.
Fee for clubs: Subject to maximum of two clubs 
excluding admission and life membership fees.
Others:
1.	 Telephone including internet at residence on 
monthly basis
2.	 For the business trips both domestic and abroad 
on actual basis
3.	 Such other allowances, perquisites, benefits and 
amenities as may be provided by the Company to 
the top management from time to time.
For the purposes of calculating the ceiling on 
remuneration, perquisites shall be evaluated as 
per Income Tax Rules wherever applicable and in 
the absence of any such Rule, the same shall be 
evaluated at actual cost. The above said remuneration 
and perquisites shall be subject to the ceiling laid 
down in Sections 197, 198 and all other applicable 
provisions of the Act or the Listing Regulations as 
may be amended from time to time.
Dr. Sumitha Nandan has extensive experience in various executive 
capacities, including her previous roles at Manappuram Finance 
Limited, Manappuram Health Care Limited, and other companies. 
She holds an MBBS degree from Rajiv Gandhi University of 
Science & Research Institute, Karnataka, and has completed 
her MS from Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai, with a 
fellowship in Cosmetic Gynaecology. She is also an alumnus of 
Wharton Business School, US following completion of courses 
in Advanced Finance Programme.
The NCCGC and the Board have noted that Dr. Sumitha Nandan’s 
oversight of the areas assigned to her has been effective, and 
the performance of these areas has improved considerably over 
the years. She has also been instrumental in overseeing critical 
17
issues relating to IT and operations, which she has completed to 
the satisfaction of the Board. Her performance against the Key 
Performance Indicators for FY 2025 was also in alignment with 
the objectives set and have contributed immensely to the growth 
of the Company with their vast experience and knowledge in 
the industry.
Based on the evaluation of her performance and considering 
the relevant factors, the NCCGC has recommended the revision 
of her salary to the Board. The Board believes that the revised 
remuneration is commensurate with her responsibilities and 
contributions to the Company.
Additional information on the directors recommended for 
appointment or re-appointment, as required under Regulation 
36 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, and applicable Secretarial Standards issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), is provided 
separately in Annexure - 2.
No director, key managerial personnel or their relatives except 
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120), to whom the resolution 
relates, and Mr. V P Nandakumar (DIN: 00044512) are interested 
in or concerned, financially or otherwise, in passing the proposed 
resolution set out in item no. 5.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out at Item 
No. 5 for approval by the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
Item No.6:
In accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019, and the Consolidated 
FDI Policy, foreign investment is permitted up to the specified 
sectoral cap in the paid-up voting equity capital of the Company 
which in the case of NBFC is 100%. Earlier, aggregate limit 
for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) registered with SEBI 
was limited to 24% of the paid-up voting equity capital of the 
Company. Pursuant to 100% FDI permissible to NBFC sector 
under automatic route, vide amendments to the said Rules, the 
companies are provided an option to limit the FPI aggregate 
investment limit to 74%/49%/24% of the paid-up share capital.
To provide greater flexibility and headroom for FPIs to invest in 
the Company, the Board of Directors has proposed increasing 
the FPI shareholding limit to 74% of the paid-up voting equity 
capital, subject to shareholders’ approval. The Board believes 
that this increase will enable the Company to attract more foreign 
investment and support its growth objectives. Considering the 
option, the Board has proposed to limit the aggregate FPI limit to 
74% of the paid-up share capital and have accordingly proposed 
approval by shareholders through a special resolution.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, or their 
relatives have any interest or concern in this resolution, except 
to the extent of their shareholding in the Company.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out at 
Item No.6 for approval by the Members as a Special Resolution.
Item Nos. 7 and 8:
The Company recognises equity-based compensation as an 
effective tool for rewarding and retaining the talent within the 
Company or its subsidiary companies. Such schemes are widely 
regarded as an integral component of employee compensation 
across various sectors, as they facilitate alignment between 
employee rewards and the long-term value creation for 
shareholders. Additionally, equity compensation fosters an 
ownership culture, enhances the Company’s ability to attract 
and retain top talent, and motivates employees to drive the 
business forward.
At this stage of the Company’s growth, as it enters the next phase 
of capitalising on market opportunities, expanding its business, 
and addressing increasing competition, there is a consistent 
demand for talent to fill critical roles. The emergence of new skills 
relevant to the Company’s operations has shifted the dynamics 
of the talent market. Consequently, it has become essential to 
develop a robust reward strategy that facilitates the attraction 
and retention of critical resources, particularly those possessing 
leadership qualities or occupying key roles in the business.
Given the background, the Nomination, Compensation and 
Corporate Governance Committee (“Committee”) and the 
Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Company at their respective 
meetings held on July 11, 2025 have approved the proposed 
‘Manappuram Finance Limited - Employee Stock Option 
Scheme 2025’ (“ESOP Scheme 2025”/ “Scheme”), subject to 
your approval.
In terms of Section 62(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder read with Regulation 6 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“SBEB Regulations”), features 
of the Scheme are given as under:
In terms of Regulation 6 of the SBEB Regulations, the salient 
features of the ESOP 2025 are given as under:
a)	
Brief description of the Scheme:
	
Keeping the view of aforesaid objectives, the ESOP Scheme 
2025 contemplates grant of employee stock options 
(“Options”) to the eligible employees of the Company and/ 
or its subsidiary, exclusively working in India or outside 
India, as determined in terms of the ESOP Scheme 2025 
and in due compliance of SBEB Regulations. After vesting 
of Options, the eligible employees will be entitled to (but not 
obligation) exercise the vested Options within the exercise 
period and obtain equity shares (“Shares”) of the Company 
subject to payment of exercise price and satisfaction of any 
tax obligation arising thereon. The eligible employees are 
expected to receive benefits based on their contribution to 
creating value for shareholders.
	
The Committee shall act as the Compensation Committee 
and shall administer the Scheme. All questions of 
interpretation of the Scheme, shall be determined by 
18
the Committee and such determination shall be final and 
binding upon all persons having an interest in the Scheme.
b)	
Total number of Options to be granted:
	
The total number of Options to be granted under the 
Scheme shall not exceed  Options. Each Option when 
exercised would be converted into one equity share of face 
value of Rs. 2/- (Rupees Two Only) each fully paid-up.
	
Further, SBEB Regulations require that in case of any 
corporate action(s) such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger, 
sale of division etc., a fair and reasonable adjustment is to 
be made to the Options granted. Accordingly, the Scheme 
provides the Committee with the power to make suitable 
adjustments to the number and price of the Options 
granted in such a manner that the total value of the Options 
granted under the Scheme remain the same after any such 
corporate action. Accordingly, if any additional Options are 
granted by the Company based on the determination of the 
Committee, for making such fair and reasonable adjustment, 
the ceiling of the aforesaid Options shall be deemed to be 
increased to the extent of such additional Options granted.
c)	
Identification of classes of employees entitled to 
participate and be beneficiaries in the Scheme
	
Following classes of employees and directors (collectively 
referred to as “Employees”) are eligible being:
	
(i)	
an employee as designated by the Company, who is 
exclusively working in India or outside India; or
	
(ii)	
a director of the Company, whether a whole-time 
director or not, including a non-executive director, who 
is not a Promoter or member of the Promoter Group; or
	
(iii)	
an employee as defined in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of the 
subsidiary company, in India or outside India;
	
	
but does not include
	
I.	
an employee/director who is a Promoter or belongs 
to the Promoter Group;
	
II.	
a Director who either by himself or through his 
relatives or through any body corporate, directly or 
indirectly holds more than 10% of the outstanding 
Shares of the Company;
	
III.	
an Independent Director of the Company or a 
Subsidiary Company.
	
The Committee while granting the Options to any eligible 
employee(s) of any subsidiary company, shall at its 
discretion, consider the factors including but not limited 
to the role(s) of such employee(s) for safeguarding the 
interest of the Company, or such employee’s contribution 
to the Company.
d)	
Requirements of vesting and period of vesting
	
All the Options granted on any date shall vest not earlier 
than the minimum vesting period of 1 (one) year and not 
later than maximum vesting period of 5 (Five) years from 
the date of grant. The Committee subject to minimum and 
maximum ceiling of vesting period shall have the power to 
prescribe the vesting schedule for a particular grant.
	
Provided further that in the event of death or permanent 
incapacity of an Option Grantee, the minimum vesting 
period of One (1) year shall not be applicable and in such 
instances, the unvested Options shall vest on the date of 
death or permanent incapacity.
	
Provided further that in case of retirement, all the unvested 
Options as on the date of retirement would continue to vest 
in accordance with the original vesting schedules provided 
for in the letter of grant even after the retirement, unless 
otherwise determined by the Committee, in accordance 
with the Company’s policies and provisions of the then 
prevailing applicable laws.
	
In case of resignation or termination of employment (other 
than due to Misconduct), unvested options on date of 
resignation by the option grantee/ termination notice by 
the Company to the Option Grantee shall stand cancelled 
with effect from that date.
	
In case of termination of employment due to Misconduct 
(as defined in the Scheme), all unvested and vested 
Options shall stand cancelled with effect from the date of 
termination notice by the Company to the Option Grantee.
	
In case of any other reason (including any breach of post 
employment obligations as set out in the Company Policies/ 
Terms of Employment), all unvested Options on the date of 
termination shall stand cancelled.
	
The vesting of Options shall be contingent upon the 
Employee’s continued employment/ service with the 
Company or Subsidiary, as the case may be. In addition, 
the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose specific 
performance criteria, the satisfaction of which shall be 
required for the Options to vest. The Committee shall have 
the authority to determine the performance parameters 
applicable to an employee or a class of employees, based 
on their respective roles, and to assign relative weightages 
to each parameter as it deems appropriate.
	
The specific Vesting schedule and Vesting Conditions 
subject to which Vesting would take place would be 
outlined in the letter of grant given to the Employee at the 
time of grant.
	
The Option Grantee who has tendered his/her resignation 
and is serving the notice period after resignation, such 
notice period shall not be considered for Vesting and all 
19
the Unvested Options as on date of resignation shall be 
cancelled forthwith. Further, the Option Grantee must not 
be subject to any disciplinary proceedings pending against 
him on such date of vesting. In case of any disciplinary 
proceedings against any Option Grantee, the relevant 
vesting shall be kept in abeyance until disposal of the 
proceedings. In case of reinstatement, vesting shall happen 
as if there was no abeyance. In case of termination from 
employment, the provisions of serial number 2 in the table 
given in Sub-clause 8.2( c) of the Scheme shall apply.
	
The period of leave shall not be considered in determining 
the vesting period in the event the Employee is on a 
sabbatical. In all other events including approved earned 
leave, maternity leave and sick leave, the period of leave 
shall be included to calculate the vesting period unless 
otherwise determined by the Committee.
	
Further, in case of an eligible Employee who has been 
granted benefits under ESOP Scheme 2025 is deputed 
or transferred (including resignation in connection with 
transfer) to join its subsidiary company, prior to vesting or 
exercise, vesting schedule and exercise period to remain 
same as per the terms of the grant.
e)	
Maximum period within which the Option shall 
be vested:
	
All the Options granted on any date shall vest not later than 
the maximum vesting period of 5 (Five) years from the date 
of each grant.
f)	
Exercise price or pricing formula:
	
The exercise price per Option shall be determined by the 
Committee subject to a maximum discount of up to 20% 
on the Market Price (as defined in the Scheme) of the 
Shares on the date of Grant. However, the exercise price 
per Option shall not be less than the face value of the Share 
of the Company.
g)	
Exercise period and the process of Exercise:
	
The exercise period for vested Options shall be a maximum 
of 5 (Five) years commencing from the relevant date of 
vesting of Options, or such other shorter period as may be 
prescribed by the Committee at the time of grant and set 
out in the letter of grant. In case of death or Permanent 
Incapacity, the Committee may, at its discretion, allow such 
additional period for exercise which shall not be more than 
12 months from the original prescribed exercise period 
communicated to the Option Grantee. In case of separation 
from employment, the exercise period shall be as set 
out below:
S. No.
Separations
Vested Options
Unvested Options
1
While in employment/ 
Service
All the vested Options shall be exercisable 
by the Option Grantee within the exercise 
period.
All the unvested Options shall continue 
to vest as per the terms and conditions of 
the grant.
2
Resignation/ Termination 
(Other than due to 
Misconduct)
All the vested Options as on date of 
resignation or termination notice shall be 
exercisable by the Option Grantee on or 
before last working day or before the expiry 
of the exercise period, whichever is earlier.
All the unvested Options as on the date 
of resignation / termination notice shall 
stand cancelled with effect from such 
date of resignation / termination notice.
3
Termination due to 
Misconduct
All the vested Options at the time of such 
termination notice shall stand cancelled 
with effect from the date of such termination 
notice.
All the unvested Options at the time 
of such termination notice shall stand 
cancelled with effect from the date of 
such termination notice.
4
Retirement
All the vested Options as on date of 
retirement shall be exercisable within 12 
(twelve) months from the date of retirement 
or exercise period, whichever is earlier.
All unvested Options as on the date of 
retirement would continue to vest in 
accordance with the original vesting 
schedules provided in the letter of 
grant, even after the retirement, unless 
otherwise determined by the Committee, 
in accordance with the Company’s 
policies, if any, and provisions of the then 
prevailing applicable law.
Such aforesaid vested Options, if any, can 
be exercised within a period of 12 (twelve) 
months from the date of such vesting.
20
S. No.
Separations
Vested Options
Unvested Options
5
Death
All the vested Options as on date of death 
shall be exercisable by the legal heir/ 
nominee of such deceased Option Grantee 
within 12 (twelve) months from the date of 
death of the Option Grantee or the exercise 
period, whichever is earlier. Provided that, 
if the Committee approves the extension 
of the exercise period in accordance with 
clause 8.2(a) of the Scheme, the vested 
Options shall be exercised within such 
additional period.
All the unvested Options as on date 
of death shall vest immediately in the 
Option Grantee’s nominee or legal heir 
and can be exercisable within a period of 
12 (twelve) months from the date of such 
vesting or the exercise period, whichever 
is earlier.
6
Permanent Incapacity
All vested Options may be exercised by 
the Option Grantee within 12 (twelve) 
months from the date of the permanent 
incapacity or the exercise period, whichever 
is earlier. Provided that, if the committee 
approves the extension of the exercise 
period in accordance with clause 8.2(a) of 
the Scheme, the vested Options shall be 
exercised within such additional period.
All the unvested Options as on date of 
incurring such permanent incapacity shall 
vest immediately with effect from such 
event to the Option Grantee and can be 
exercisable within a period of 12 (twelve) 
months from the date of such vesting or 
the exercise period, whichever is earlier.
7
Transfer / deputation to/ 
from Subsidiary Company
Exercise period to remain the same as per 
the terms of the grant.
In case of subsequent separation, treatment 
of Options shall be as per the applicable 
circumstance mentioned in this table.
Vesting schedule and exercise period to 
remain same as per the terms of the grant.
In 
case 
of 
subsequent 
separation, 
treatment of Options shall be as per the 
applicable circumstance mentioned in 
this table.
8
Any other reason 
(including any breach 
of post employment 
obligations as set out in 
the Company Policies/ 
Terms of Employment)
The Committee shall decide whether the 
vested Options as on that date can be 
exercised by the Option Grantee or not, and 
such decision shall be final.
All unvested Options on the date of such 
termination shall stand cancelled.
	
The vested Options shall be exercisable by the Option 
Grantees by a written application to the Company 
expressing his/ her desire to exercise such Options in such 
manner and in such format as may be prescribed by the 
Committee from time to time. Exercise of Options shall be 
entertained only after payment of requisite exercise price 
and satisfaction of applicable taxes by the Option Grantees. 
The Options shall lapse if not exercised within the specified 
exercise period.
	
All the vested Options can be exercised by the Option 
Grantee at one time or at various points of time within the 
exercise period.
h)	
Appraisal process for determining the eligibility of 
employees under the Scheme:
	
The appraisal process for determining eligibility shall be 
decided from time to time by the Committee. The broad 
criteria for appraisal and selection may include parameters 
like grade, criticality, skills, potential contribution, and such 
other criteria as may be determined by the Committee at its 
sole discretion, from time to time.
	
Provided that the Committee while granting the Options 
to any eligible Employee(s) of any subsidiary(ies), shall at 
its discretion, consider the factors including but not limited 
to the role(s) of such Employee(s) for safeguarding the 
interest of the Company, or such Employee’s contribution 
to the Company.
i)	
Maximum number of Options to be issued per 
employee and in aggregate:
	
The total number of Options to be granted under the Scheme 
in aggregate shall not exceed 2,06,44,749 (Two Crore Six 
Lakhs Forty-four Thousand Seven Hundred Forty-nine) 
Options. Each Option when exercised would be converted 
into one equity share of face value of Rs. 2/- (Rupees Two 
Only) each fully paid-up.
	
The maximum number of Options that may be granted 
to each employee per grant and in aggregate (taking 
into account all grants) shall vary depending upon the 
designation and the appraisal/ assessment process, 
however, shall not exceed 51,61,187 (Fifty-one Lakhs 
Sixty-one Thousand One Hundred Eighty-seven) Options.
21
j)	
Maximum quantum of benefits to be provided per 
employee:
	
The maximum number of Options that may be granted 
to each Employee per grant and in aggregate (taking 
into account all grants) shall vary depending upon the 
designation and the appraisal/ assessment process, 
however, shall not exceed 51,61,187 (Fifty-one Lakhs 
Sixty-one Thousand One Hundred Eighty-seven) Options.
	
Apart from the grant of Options as stated above, no other 
benefits are contemplated under the Scheme.
k)	
Route of Scheme implementation:
	
The Scheme shall be implemented and administered 
directly by the Company.
l)	
Source of acquisition of shares under the Scheme:
	
The Scheme contemplates issue of fresh/ primary equity 
shares by the Company.
m)	 Amount of loan to be provided for implementation 
of the Scheme(s) by the Company to the Trust, its 
tenure, utilisation, repayment terms, etc:
	
This is currently not contemplated under the Scheme.
n)	
Maximum percentage of secondary acquisition:
	
This is currently not contemplated under the Scheme.
o)	
Accounting and Disclosure Policies:
	
The Company shall follow the relevant accounting 
standards as may be prescribed by the Central Government 
in terms of Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and/ or 
any relevant accounting standards/ guidance note as may 
be prescribed by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India or any other competent authority, from time to time, 
including the disclosure requirements prescribed therein, in 
compliance with Regulation 15 of SBEB Regulations.
p)	
Method of Option valuation:
	
The Company shall adopt ‘fair value method’ for valuation 
of Options as prescribed under IND AS 102 on Share-based 
payments or any accounting standard/ guidance note, 
as applicable, notified by competent authorities from 
time to time.
q)	
Declaration:
	
In case, the Company opts for expensing of share-based 
employee benefits using the intrinsic value, the difference 
between the employee compensation cost so computed 
and the employee compensation cost that shall have been 
recognised if it had used the fair value of the Options and 
the impact of this difference on profits and on Earning Per 
Share (EPS) of the Company shall also be disclosed in the 
Directors’ Report.
r)	
Period of Lock-in:
	
The Shares issued pursuant to exercise of Options shall 
not be subject to any lock-in period restriction except such 
restrictions as may be prescribed under applicable laws 
including that under the code of conduct framed by the 
Company under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading), Regulations, 2015, as 
amended, shall apply.
s)	
Terms & conditions for buyback, if any, of specified 
securities/ Options covered granted under the 
Scheme:
	
Subject to the provisions of the then prevailing applicable 
laws, the Committee shall determine the procedure for 
buy-back of specified securities under the Scheme if to be 
undertaken at any time by the Company, and the applicable 
terms and conditions thereof.
	
A copy of draft ESOP Scheme 2025 is available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office during official 
hours on all working days till the last date of the e-voting.
	
None of the Directors and key managerial personnel of 
the Company, including their relatives, are interested or 
concerned in the resolutions, except to the extent they may 
be lawfully granted Options under ESOP Scheme 2025.
	
In this background, the Company seeks your approval by 
way of a special resolution pursuant to:
	
i.	
Section 62(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Regulation 3 and Regulation 6 of SBEB Regulations, 
for the implementation of ESOP 2025, in agenda 
item no.7; and
	
ii.	
Regulation 6(3)( c) of the SBEB Regulations, a separate 
resolution, for extending and granting the Options 
under the Scheme to the eligible employees of its 
subsidiary company, working in India or outside India, 
in agenda item no. 8.
By order of the Board of Directors
For Manappuram Finance Limited
Sd/-
Place: Valapad, Thrissur 	
CS Manoj Kumar V R
Date: 11th July, 2025 	
Company Secretary
22
Annexure - 1
Additional information on directors recommended for appointment/ re-appointment as required under Regulation 
36 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI)
Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810)
Independent Director
With over 40 years of experience in banking and financial services, both in India and abroad, Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty is a 
seasoned financial services professional. His diverse background includes tenure with prominent institutions such as Union Bank 
of India, ICICI Bank (as Executive Vice President and Head of International Banking), Union Bank of California (as Vice President and 
Regional Head of South Asia Region), and Federal Bank (as Executive Director).
Mr. Kollara has extensive experience in project management, particularly in setting up institutions. He has also served as a 
Non-Executive Director at Experian Credit Information Company of India Private Limited. Additionally, he holds an “approved person” 
status with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the UK’s financial regulator.
Qualification: Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty is a postgraduate in Economics from Mumbai University.
DIN: 01519810
Age & Date of Birth: 74 years, November 1, 1951
Nationality: Indian
Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Foreign exchange, Trade finance, Cross-border payments, Consumer credit, Core 
banking application system implementation, Compliance (including anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorism financing (CTF), 
and financial crime prevention practices, Governance (global standards and best practices in governance).
Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors and KMP: Nil
Listed entities (other than Manappuram Finance Limited) in which Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty holds directorship and 
committee membership: Nil
Listed entities from which Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty has resigned in the past three years: Nil
Directorship in other Companies: Nil
Membership/ Chairmanship of Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors of other 
Companies of which he/ she is a director:
Sl. No.
Name of the Company
Committee
Member/ Chairman
1.
Asirvad Micro Finance 
Limited
1. 	 Audit Committee 
2. 	 Stakeholder’s Relationship and Customer Service Committee
Member
Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees of other Boards not mentioned above:
Sl. No.
Name of the Company
Committee
Member/ Chairman
1.
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
1. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
2. 	 Management Committee
Member
Shareholding in the Company as on the date of her appointment: Nil
Remuneration proposed to be paid: As per the resolution proposed in item no.4 of this notice, read with the explanatory 
statement thereto.
Key terms and conditions of appointment: As per the resolution proposed in item no. 4 of this notice, read with the explanatory 
statement thereto. https://www.manappuram.com/corporate-governance
Date of first appointment to the Board, last drawn remuneration and number of Board meetings attended: Mr. Harshan Kollara 
Sankarakutty was initially appointed as an Additional Director on January 28, 2020, and subsequently appointed as an Independent 
Director at the 28th Annual General Meeting of the Company held on August 28, 2020. Details regarding his remuneration and 
attendance at Board meetings are included in the Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report for 2024-25.
23
Annexure - 2
Additional information on directors recommended for appointment/ re-appointment as required under Regulation 
36 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI)
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120)
Executive Director
Dr. Sumitha Nandan has held various executive roles at Manappuram Finance Limited, including Chief Executive Officer of Online 
Gold Loan (OGL). She has also served as a Whole-Time Director at Manappuram Health Care Limited and held directorships in several 
other companies, including Manappuram Home Finance Limited, Manappuram Agro Farms Limited, Systemic Ayurvedic Research 
Private Limited, and Macare Dental Care Private Limited.
Qualification: Dr. Nandan is a medical professional with an MBBS degree from Rajiv Gandhi University of Science & Research 
Institute, Karnataka, and an MS degree from Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai. She has also completed a fellowship in Cosmetic 
Gynecology. Her medical experience includes working as a consultant gynecologist at Trikakkara Co-operative Hospital, Cochin, 
and KIMS Hospital, Cochin. Additionally, she has served as an Assistant Professor at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and as a 
Gynecologist and Cosmetologist at Cimar Hospital, Cochin.
DIN: 03625120
Age & Date of Birth: 45 years, May 30, 1980
Nationality: Indian
Nature of expertise in specific functional areas:
Dr. Sumitha Nandan has held various executive positions at Manappuram Finance Limited, including Chief Executive Officer of Online 
Gold Loan (OGL), where she demonstrated strong business acumen and managerial skills.
With her experience in healthcare, which emphasises intense consumer focus and regulatory oversight, combined with her experience 
in financial services, Dr. Nandan is well-attuned to consumer expectations - a critical area of regulatory focus and concern.
Appointed as Whole-time Director of the Company in 2023, Dr. Nandan has been responsible for overseeing business operations, 
including various IT and digital initiatives. Her oversight has been effective, leading to significant improvements in the assigned areas 
over the years. She has also successfully managed critical IT and operational issues, completing tasks to the satisfaction of the Board 
of Directors of the Company.
Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors and KMP: Dr. Sumitha Nandan is the daughter of Mr. V P Nandakumar, the 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of Manappuram Finance Limited.
Listed entities (other than Manappuram Finance Limited) in which Dr. Sumitha Nandan holds directorship and committee 
membership: Nil
Listed entities from which Dr. Sumitha Nandan has resigned in the past three years: Nil
Directorship in other Companies: Nil
Membership/ Chairmanship of Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors of other 
Companies of which he/ she is a director: Nil
Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees of other Boards not mentioned above: Nil
Shareholding in the Company as on the date of her appointment: Nil
Remuneration proposed to be paid: As per the resolution proposed in item no. 5 of this notice, read with the explanatory 
statement thereto.
24
Key terms and conditions of appointment: As per the resolution in item no. 2 of notice of postal ballot dated December 23, 2022 
https://www.manappuram.com/investors/notice-to-shareholders
Date of first appointment to the Board, last drawn remuneration and number of Board meetings attended: Dr. Sumitha Nandan 
was appointed as an Additional Director to the Board of Directors of the Company with effect from January 1, 2023. Subsequently, 
the shareholders approved her appointment as a Whole-time Director for a period of five years, effective January 1, 2023, through 
a postal ballot. As per the terms of appointment, she is liable to retire by rotation. The details of her remuneration and attendance at 
Board meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report 2024-25.
By order of the Board of Directors
For Manappuram Finance Limited
Sd/-
Place: Valapad, Thrissur 	
CS Manoj Kumar V R
Date: 11th July, 2025 	
Company Secretary
25
26
MANAPPURAM FINANCE LIMITED
Regd. Office: W - 4/638 A, Manappuram House, Valapad P.O., Thrissur - 680 567, Kerala, India
Ph: (0487) 3050413, 3050417, CIN: L65910KL1992PLC006623
Email: cosecretary@manappuram.com, Website: www.manappuram.com
ATTENDANCE SLIP
33rd ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING - THURSDAY, AUGUST 14, 2025
DP ID
CLIENT ID
FOLIO NO.
No. of 
shares
I certify that I am a member/ proxy/ authorised representative for the member of the Company. I hereby record my presence 
at the 33rd Annual General Meeting of the Company at Latha Convention Centre (formerly known as Anugraha Auditorium), 
Valapad, Thrissur - 680 567, Kerala held on Thursday, August 14, 2025, at 11.00 A.M. (IST)
	
Signature of the Shareholder/ Proxy	
Name of the Shareholder/ Proxy
Note: Please fill up this Attendance Slip and hand it over at the entrance of the Meeting Hall.
ELECTRONIC VOTING PARTICULARS
EVSN
User ID
Sequence No.
Note: Please read instructions given at Note No.18(xv) of the Notice of the 33rd Annual General Meeting carefully before 
voting electronically.
27
MANAPPURAM FINANCE LIMITED
Regd. Office: W - 4/638 A, Manappuram House, Valapad P.O., Thrissur - 680 567, Kerala, India
Ph: (0487) 3050413, 3050417, CIN: L65910KL1992PLC006623
Email: cosecretary@manappuram.com, Website: www.manappuram.com
PROXY FORM
33rd ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING - THURSDAY, AUGUST 14, 2025
(Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014)
Name of the Member(s) :
Registered Address :
Email ID :
DP ID:
CLIENT ID:
FOLIO NO.
I/ We, being the member (s) holding..........................................................no. of shares of Manappuram Finance Limited, hereby appoint:
(1)	
Name	
:
 
	
Address	 :
 
	
E-mail ID 	:
 
	
Signature : 
or failing him/her; 
(2)	
Name	
:
 
	
Address	 :
 
	
E-mail ID 	:
 
	
Signature : 
 or failing him/her; 
3)	
Name	
:
 
	
Address	 :
 
	
E-mail ID 	:
 
	
Signature : 
 or failing him/her; 
28
And whose signatures are appended below as my / our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/ us and on my/ our 
behalf at the 33rd Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held on Thursday, August 14, 2025 at 11.00 A.M. (IST) at 
Latha Convention Centre (formerly known as Anugraha Auditorium), Valapad, Thrissur - 680 567, Kerala, India and at any 
adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions set out in the Notice convening the meeting,  as are indicated below:
I wish my above proxy to vote in the manner as indicated in the box below
Sl No
Resolutions
*Vote
For
Against
Ordinary Business
1.
To consider and adopt the audited Standalone as well as Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, together 
with Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon.
2.
Appointment of Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120) as a director, liable to retire 
by rotation
Special Business
3.
Appointment of KSR & Co Company Secretaries LLP, as Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company
4.
Re-appointment of Mr. Harshan Kollara Sankarakutty (DIN: 01519810) as an 
Independent Director of the Company
5.
Revision in remuneration payable to Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120), Whole-
time Director of the Company
6.
To consider and approve the increase in the ceiling limit on total holdings of 
Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) through primary or secondary market routes, up 
to an aggregate limit of 74% of the Company’s paid-up share capital.
7.
To consider and approve ‘Manappuram Finance Limited - Employee Stock Option 
Scheme 2025’
8.
To consider and approve grant of employee stock options to the employees of 
subsidiary company (ies) of the Company under ‘Manappuram Finance Limited - 
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2025’ 
Signed this____________day of_______________2025 
Signature of Shareholder:  ________________________	
	
	
Signature of Proxy Holder(s): ______________________	
Notes:
1.	
This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered office of the 
Company, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
2.	
For the Resolutions and Notes, please refer to the Notice of 33rd AGM.
3.	
*Please put a tick mark (√) in the appropriate column against the resolutions indicated in the box. If a member leaves 
the “For” or “Against” column blank against any or all the Resolutions, the proxy will be entitled to vote in the manner 
he/ she thinks appropriate. If a member wishes to abstain from voting on a particular resolution, he/ she should write 
“Abstain” across the boxes against the Resolution.
4.	
A Proxy need not be a member of the Company.
5.	
A person can act as a proxy on behalf of members not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more than 10% 
of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights. A member holding more than 10% of the total share 
capital of the Company carrying voting rights may appoint a single person as proxy and such person shall not act as a 
proxy for any other person or shareholder.
6.	
Appointing a proxy does not prevent a member from attending the meeting in person if he so wishes.
7.	
In the case of joint holders, the signature of any one holder will be sufficient, but names of all the joint holders should 
be stated.
Affix 
Revenue 
Stamp
Annual Report 2024-25
From
Resilience
Reinvention
to 
to 
What’s Inside
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
02	 From Resilience to Reinvention
05	 Who We Are
06	 Pan India Presence
08	 MD’s Message
10	 Key Performance Indicators
12	 Tech-Led Brand
14	 Brand and Marketing
16	 Gold Loans Business
18	 Microfinance  
(Asirvad Microfinance)
19	 Housing Finance  
(Manappuram Home Finance Ltd.)
21	 Vehicle & Equipment Finance
22	 MSME and Personal 
Loan Business
25	 Manappuram Comptech and 
Consultants Ltd (MACOM)
26	 Insurance Distribution  
(MAIBRO)
27	 Forex and Money Transfer
28	 Payments Business
30	 Environmental
31	 Social (Customers)
32	 Social (Community)
36	 Social (Employees)
44	 Governance
46	 Board of Directors
49	 Awards and Accolades
To read this report online or to
download please log on to
www.manappuram.com
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
51	
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
67	
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
113	 Board’s Report
148	 Corporate Governance Report
180	 Standalone Financial Statements
294	 Consolidated Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
From
Resilience
Reinvention
to 
to 
Shri V. C. Padmanabhan belonged to the coastal fishing village of Valapad in Malabar district of the erstwhile  
Madras Presidency. He was committed to uplifting the economically weaker sections of the society, particularly 
the farmers, fishermen and agricultural labourers in his community. In 1949, he decided to help the people of his 
village by setting up his own small business of providing loans against the security of jewellery at affordable rates. 
Thus, began the story of Manappuram Finance Limited (MAFIL).
Over the years and decades, the Company has won the trust of millions of customers and has played a pivotal role in 
bringing underprivileged people into the fold of organised lending.
Driven by Shri Padmanabhan’s values of trust and integrity, Manappuram Finance Limited has transformed itself 
into a full-fledged and well-diversified non-banking financial company (NBFC) that will continue to exceed customer 
expectations and help them fulfil their aspirations. Our core strengths of customer-centricity, stakeholder integrity 
and quick adoption of top-notch technology for seamless operations will help us stay ahead of the curve.
We will always look up to  
Shri Padmanabhan and stay true to his values  
in all our endeavours.
Tribute to
V. C .  P A D M A N A B H A N
Founder, Manappuram Group of Companies 
(1916-1986)
Resilience
Reinvention
to 
From
“Resilience is often about 
holding the line.  
But reinvention is about 
redrawing it.”
FY25 was not just a year of weathering 
challenges, it was the year Manappuram 
Finance turned resilience into action 
and adversity into opportunity. 
Amid evolving regulatory shifts, sectoral 
stress in microfinance, and tightening 
credit conditions, we made deliberate, 
forward-looking choices that reset 
the foundation of how we serve, scale, 
and succeed.
We doubled down on our digital 
investments, recalibrated risk across 
our lending verticals, and embraced 
our customer-first philosophy through 
sharper segmentation and personalised 
engagement. Our flagship gold loan 
business stood as a pillar of strength, 
even as we recalibrated our microfinance 
portfolio and fortified secured MSME and 
housing loans. Reinvention was not a 
buzzword, it became a blueprint.
Our results reflect both the caution and 
the conviction with which we operated. 
A 13.5% rise in revenue, expansion of 
gold AUM by 18.7%, and a 2.3% growth in 
consolidated AUM, driven by disciplined 
execution, data-driven lending, and 
technology-led transformation.
The year connects our story that doesn’t 
just adapt, but evolves to capture 
what’s next.
02
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
FY25 Key Highlights
Consolidated Financial
Operational
Over
5,350  
branches across India
` 10,041 crore  
Revenue (↑ 13.5% YoY)
Gold Loan AUM
` 25,586 crore  
(↑ 18.7% YoY)
Gold Loan Customers
2.58 Million  
active customers
Gold Holdings
56.4  tonnes  
under custody
Home Finance AUM
` 1,824 crore  
(↑ 20.8% YoY)
Vehicle and Equipment 
Finance AUM
` 4,773 crore  
(↑ 16.1% YoY)
MSME Loans AUM
` 3,079 crore  
( ↑ 5.9% YoY )
Microfinance (Asirvad) AUM
` 7,207 crore  
( ↓ 34.1% YoY ) – undergoing portfolio  
recalibration
` 1,666 crore  
PBT (↓ 43.7% YoY)
` 43,034 crore  
AUM (↑ 2.3% YoY)
` 12,432 crore  
Net worth (↑ 7.7% YoY)
2.5%  
RoA (↓ from 5.1% in FY24)
10.0%  
RoE ( ↓ from 20.7% in FY24)
` 1,204 crore  
Net Profit (PAT) (↓ 45.2% YoY), 
mainly due to sharp losses in 
Asirvad Microfinance
From Resilience to Reinvention
03
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
A Trusted Name in Financial 
Inclusion Since 1949
Who We Are
Manappuram Finance Limited stands as one of India’s leading non-banking 
financial companies (NBFCs), known for its commitment to empowering the 
underbanked through accessible, transparent, and responsible financial 
services. What began as a modest venture in coastal Kerala has grown into 
a diversified financial services group with a nationwide presence, a broad 
customer base, and a legacy of trust that spans over seven decades.
Our 
journey 
is 
defined 
by 
innovation, operational rigour, and 
customer-centricity. As the country’s 
second-largest gold loan NBFC, 
Manappuram has pioneered solutions 
that have brought formal credit within 
reach of millions of Indians, especially in 
semi-urban and rural geographies.
We operate across multiple verticals, 
Gold Loans, Microfinance (through 
its subsidiary Asirvad Micro Finance 
Limited), Vehicle and Equipment Finance, 
Home Loans, and MSME Lending, 
ensuring financial access is never a 
function of geography, ticket size, or 
status. Each business is managed with 
domain expertise and driven by prudence, 
governance, and integrity.
Vision
To become the preferred choice of 
financial services partner for India’s 
aspiring classes, meeting the full 
range of their credit requirements, 
and helping India to become a 
financially inclusive society where 
every citizen has ready access to 
formal channels of finance.
Core Values
Integrity: At Manappuram Finance 
we value our reputation for 
integrity in our dealings. We set 
great store by ethical values and 
transparency. We take pride in 
following the laws of the land in 
letter and spirit.
Unrelenting Customer focus: 
We treat our customers with the 
utmost fairness. No matter what 
their economic status is, we offer 
everyone prompt and courteous 
service, with high levels of 
transparency.
Cutting-edge 
Technology: 
Technology is central to our 
vision. We continue to invest 
heavily in technology to enhance 
customer experience and drive 
efficiency in operations. We believe 
in tech-led innovations to deliver 
seamless and responsive financial 
services of ever greater value to 
customers.
Mission
Manappuram Finance Limited 
is dedicated to the mission of 
bringing convenience to people’s 
lives and making their lives easier. 
We offer secured and unsecured 
credit to meet their varied financial 
needs from instant gold loans to 
microfinance, affordable home 
loans, vehicle finance and more.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
04
Built on Strengths that Last
Over the years, Manappuram has 
consistently demonstrated financial 
stability, operational discipline, and 
governance excellence.
	 Pioneer in Online Gold Loans (OGL): 
A first-of-its-kind digital lending 
platform enabling secure, anytime 
access to gold loans.
	 Cellular Vaulting Mechanism: 
Ensures world-class security for  over 
56 tonnes of household gold jewellery 
entrusted to us.
	 Diversified Lending Portfolio: 
Ranging from small-ticket housing 
loans to self-employed vehicle 
finance, tailored to underserved 
customer segments.
	 Operational Rigour: Appraisal, 
valuation, and custody protocols 
refined over decades have set industry 
benchmarks in gold lending.
	 Tech-Driven Approach: With 82% 
of the gold loan book now digitally 
originated, we continue to integrate 
technology in credit, onboarding, risk, 
and collections.
	 Risk Culture: A conservative credit 
stance, timely auctions, and guarded 
LTVs – backed by a CRAR of 30.91% – 
have safeguarded our balance sheet.
	 Regulatory Discipline: A strong 
culture of strict regulatory compliance 
underpins all our operations, ensuring 
transparency, accountability, and 
long-term trust.
Our Strategy: Growth with Responsibility
Our long-term growth strategy is anchored in our identity:
	 Create a mainstream market for gold loans -  convenient, affordable, and accessible.
	 Be a one-stop financial partner - from lending to protection, for India’s underbanked.
	 Expand responsibly across new verticals, led by customer needs and 
data-driven insights.
Credit Ratings (As on March 31, 2025)
Governance-Backed Growth
Manappuram’s success is rooted 
in institutionalised governance 
practices led by an independent 
and diverse Board. Every business 
decision is taken with long-term 
sustainability in mind. Our strong 
asset-liability management (ALM), 
conservative leverage, and 
well-diversified borrowing profile 
have earned us industry respect and 
investor trust.
Entity
Rating Agency
Rating
Manappuram Finance (Long-Term)
CRISIL
AA / Stable
Manappuram Finance (Short-Term)
CRISIL
A1+
Asirvad Microfinance
CRISIL
AA- / Stable
CARE
AA- / Stable
International Rating (Issuer)
S&P, Fitch
BB- / Stable
What Sets Us Apart
#2  
Gold Loan NBFC in India
2.58 Million  
Active Customer Base
56.4 tonnes  
Gold Holdings
3,524+  
Total Branch Network
` 43,034 crore  
Consolidated AUM
` 1,783 crore  
Standalone PAT
Who We Are
30.91%  
CRAR (Well-capitalised)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
05
Reinventing Access Across India
Pan India Presence
Guided by our core belief in enabling every Indian, we have evolved from a 
resilient legacy of physical outreach to a reimagined model of accessibility. 
By blending our widespread branch network with digital innovation, we have 
ensured that convenience, trust, and service now reach customers across 
every corner of the country.
8
253
570
333
480
578
9
18
2
24
105
12
51
150
5
123
3
210
10
13
4
8
75
64
59
96
140
121
North 
South
East
West
Union Territories
3,524 
Manappuram Finance Limited  
Gold Loan Branches
54.1
56.4
54.0
58.6
70.0
FY 25
FY 24
FY 23
FY 22
FY 21
Gold AUM Per Branch (` Million)
191
199
190
207
247
FY 25
FY 24
FY 23
FY 22
FY 21
Gold Loan Portfolio (` Billion)
Map not to scale.  
For illustrative purposes only.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
06
9%
Rural
22%
Metro
33%
Semi-Urban
36%
Urban
North  16.74%
State
No. of Branches
Jammu & Kashmir
10
Himachal Pradesh
13
Chandigarh
4
Delhi
59
Punjab
75
Uttarakhand
8
Haryana
64
Uttar Pradesh
140
Rajasthan
96
Madhya Pradesh
121
Total
590
South  62.82%
State
No. of Branches
Karnataka
570
Kerala
480
Telangana
253
Andhra Pradesh
333
Tamil Nadu
578
Total
2,214
East  10.27%
State
No. of Branches
Assam
18
Bihar
24
Tripura
2
Jharkhand
12
West Bengal
105
Chhattisgarh
51
Odisha
150
Total
362
West  9.67%
State
No. of Branches
Maharashtra
210
Goa
8
Gujarat 
123
Total
341
Union Territories 0.4% 
State
No. of  Branches
Daman Diu
3
Andaman & Nicobar
5
Puducherry
9
Total
17
Gold  
AUM Rural 
Urban Mix -  
Q4 FY25
Pan India Presence
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
07
Steering Through Change, 
Shaping What’s Next
MD's Message
        The operational 
maturity we have 
attained in this 
segment is further 
demonstrated by 
our online gold loan 
(OGL) platform, which 
currently accounts 
for 82% of our gold 
portfolio.
Dear Stakeholders,
For us, FY25 has been a landmark year. 
We started the year with a specific goal 
of transforming our innate resilience into 
meaningful reinvention. And as I reflect 
on the year gone by, I am pleased to 
share how this intent took shape across 
the organisation.
The past year presented a combination 
of opportunities and headwinds. 
While our gold loan business 
maintained its strength, we proactively 
recalibrated 
our 
microfinance 
operations and diversified our lending 
verticals. Our approach was deliberate, 
data-driven and aligned to the evolving 
realities of our customers and the 
regulatory landscape.
Moving Through a Complex 
Economic and Regulatory 
Landscape
With the help of improved credit 
penetration, policy reforms and robust 
domestic consumption, India’s economy 
kept growing. But regulatory scrutiny of 
the financial services sector increased 
especially in microfinance and gold 
lending. In response, we strengthened our 
governance, improved our underwriting 
procedures and maintained our flexibility 
to guarantee compliance without 
sacrificing our focus on the needs of our 
customers.
The Reserve Bank of India’s preliminary 
gold loan guidelines were carefully 
considered. We offered our suggestions 
in favour of fair, open and customer- 
friendly procedures. The operational 
maturity we have attained in this 
segment is further demonstrated by 
our online gold loan (OGL) platform, 
which currently accounts for 82% of our 
gold portfolio.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
08
A Strategic Shift Anchored in 
Discipline
FY25 marked a conscious recalibration 
across our business lines. Our flagship 
gold loan business remained resilient and 
grew by 19.3% YoY, reaching ` 24,658 
crore in standalone AUM. This was enabled 
by enhanced digital onboarding, strong 
brand recall, and robust LTV governance, 
despite competitive market conditions. 
Meanwhile, our subsidiary Asirvad 
Micro Finance Limited, faced sectoral 
stress. In response, we implemented 
operational restructuring, improved 
customer verification with biometrics, 
and carried out routine checks and 
updates to maintain a healthy portfolio. 
We believe these efforts, along 
with disciplined provisioning and a 
sharper risk lens, will pave the way for 
recovery in FY26.
We also saw steady growth in our vehicle 
and equipment finance segment, which 
rose by 16.1% YoY to ` 4,773 crore, 
driven by demand in used vehicles 
and 
construction 
equipment. 
Our MSME book reached ` 3,079 crore 
and our home finance business 
grew 20.8% YoY to ` 1,824 crore, 
establishing a strong base in secured 
lending. Alongside, our fee-based and 
digital services, such as MAkash and 
MaSuraksha, continued to scale, helping 
us create a more integrated financial 
ecosystem and strengthening customer 
lifetime value.
Embracing Technology as a  
Growth Enabler
Technology continues to underpin 
our reinvention. FY25 saw deeper 
deployment of intelligent automation, 
enhanced customer-facing platforms, 
and AI-driven bots for collections 
and support. Our internal technology 
subsidiary, MACOM, made significant 
strides by upgrading critical loan 
modules, adopting cloud-native 
technologies 
and 
expanding 
our cybersecurity posture with 
ISO 27001:2022 certification.
We also reinforced our digital gold 
loan channel and expanded our 
chatbot infrastructure to increase 
24x7 
customer 
touchpoints. 
Looking ahead, we see AI and 
analytics playing an even more 
strategic role in product design, 
credit decisioning, and personalised 
customer engagement – powering 
the next phase of our digital 
transformation.
Resilience in Performance 
On a consolidated basis, our AUM 
stood at ` 43,034 crore, up 2.3% YoY. 
Revenue grew 13.5% to ` 10,041 crore, 
though our PAT declined to ` 1,204 crore, 
impacted primarily by provisioning in 
t h e  
m i c ro f i n a n c e  
s e g m e n t . 
These provisions, though significant, 
were guided by our commitment 
to prudent risk management and 
maintaining long-term asset quality. 
Despite this, our standalone performance 
reflected strength, with a PAT of ` 1,783 
crore and 7.6% growth YoY.
We remain well capitalised with a CRAR 
of 30.91% and a net worth of ` 12,432 
crore. Liquidity remains strong, and our 
borrowing costs have remained stable. 
Our AA/Stable credit ratings further 
reinforce investor confidence in our 
capital adequacy and governance.
During the year, the board of directors 
had declared four interim dividends of 
` 1 per equity share aggregating ` 4 per 
equity share, reaffirming our commitment 
to shareholder returns.
Looking Ahead 
As we step into FY26, our focus is 
sharp to drive growth with discipline. 
We will continue to strengthen the 
gold loan franchise, stabilise the 
microfinance business, expand our 
secured lending footprint, and accelerate 
digital adoption.
A key development during the year 
was the induction of Bain Capital 
as a strategic investor. Their investment 
is a strong endorsement of our track record 
and long-term potential. It also bolsters 
our capital strength, improves access to 
strategic insight, and positions us to scale 
with agility across lending verticals.
Our partnerships with OEMs, strategic use 
of analytics, and continued investment in 
people and culture will guide us forward. 
We remain committed to building 
a future-ready, customer-first, and 
risk-aware organisation – where financial 
performance is both an outcome and an 
enabler of our long-term strategic vision.
A Heartfelt Thank You
I would like to extend my sincere 
gratitude to our Board of Directors for 
their wise counsel, to our employees for 
their unwavering commitment, and to 
our customers for their continued trust 
in us. I am especially thankful to our 
shareholders for their steadfast support 
as we continue to reinvent ourselves for 
a stronger, more resilient future. We also 
deeply appreciate the guidance and 
oversight provided by our regulators, 
whose role is instrumental in enabling us 
to operate with integrity and confidence.
With humility and determination,
V. P. Nandakumar
Managing Director & CEO
Manappuram Finance Limited
MD Message
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
09
Numbers that Tell a Story of 
Reinvention
Key Performance Indicators
Assets Under Management (` Billion)
PAT (` Billion)
Net Worth  (` Billion)
PAT Margin  (%)*
Return on Equity  (%)
Earnings Per Share  (`)
5-year 
CAGR 
9.59%
YoY
2.14%
5-year 
CAGR 
(6.94%)
YoY
(45.22)%
5-year 
CAGR 
11.21%
YoY
7.83%
272
17.25
73
27
26.2
20.4
303
13.29
84
22
16.9
15.7
355
15.01
96
22
16.6
17.7
421
21.98
115
25
20.7
26.0
430
12.04
124
12
10.0
14.2
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
10
Net Interest Income (` Billion)
Net Interest Spread (%)
Net NPA (%)**
Cost of Borrowing  (%)**
Gross NPA  (%)**
5-year 
CAGR 
9.48%
YoY
8.09%
41.12
14.40
1.5
8.8
1.9
40.50
11.60
2.7
7.5
3.0
45.09
13.02
1.1
7.9
1.3
59.82
13.39
1.7
8.6
1.9
64.66
13.21
2.5
9.1
2.8
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
* 	 PAT: Profit After Tax
**	 Gross NPA, Net NPA and Cost of Borrowing are standalone figures. 	
	
	
All other figures are consolidated. 
Key Performance Indicators
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
11
Building Future-Ready Finance
Tech-Led Brand
At Manappuram, technology forms the backbone of our operational model. 
FY25 marked another progressive year in which we integrated intelligent, 
responsive, and secure digital solutions across our customer lifecycle. 
Our tech initiatives continue to reinforce our position as a digitally-led, 
customer-first financial services provider.
Enhancing Client Experiences 
with Intelligent Chatbots
Robust Digital Platforms
Website Chatbot – Mira
Mira, our website chatbot, continues to 
provide a streamlined and personalised 
digital experience by assisting users 
with loan queries, branch information, 
interest payments, and more, showing 
our commitment to digital convenience.
Online Gold Loan (OGL) App
(10+ Regional languages)
Our flagship OGL mobile app accounted 
for 82% of total gold disbursements 
in FY25. It offers end-to-end loan 
management, including renewals, 
interest payments, top-ups, and branch 
locators, all available in multiple regional 
languages.
WhatsApp Chatbot
Our WhatsApp Chatbot continues to act 
as a virtual financial advisor, accessible 
24x7 for gold loan services. It supports 
key functions such as loan application, 
LTV calculation, interest payment, and 
locating the nearest branch, offering 
instant, guided support to customers.
48,15,140+   
Queries handled
Manappuram Personal Loan App: A 
Digital Lending Solution
The Manappuram Personal Loan app has 
emerged as a reliable platform for quick, 
secure, and paperless lending. This app 
allows customers to apply for personal 
loans online, providing a streamlined and 
user-friendly experience for uploading 
necessary documents and receiving loan 
disbursements.
During the reporting period, the app 
has successfully facilitated loan 
disbursements, demonstrating its 
effectiveness in meeting customer needs.
This platform supports fast, error-free 
gold loan auctions with tiered access 
for Bidders, Proxies, and Auctioneers. 
A strong MIS backbone allows real-time 
tracking and transparent report 
generation. During the reporting period, 
the app has successfully facilitated 
loan disbursements, demonstrating its 
effectiveness in meeting customer needs.
` 7+ crore  
Total Disbursement Amount
4,621   
Auctions conducted digitally in 
FY25, backed by MIS and tiered 
user access
We are committed to enhancing our 
digital lending capabilities through 
the Manappuram Personal Loan app, 
ensuring that our customers have access 
to efficient and accessible financial 
solutions.
54
44
50
57
82
FY 25
FY 24
FY 23
FY 22
FY 21
Share of OGL in the  
overall Gold AUM (%)
MA-Auction:  
Digital Auction Platform
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
12
Seamless KYC and Onboarding
OCR-Based KYC System
Our KYC process has been enhanced 
with OCR-enabled document reading 
and face-matching, reducing errors and 
speeding up verification.
Biometric e-KYC (In Progress)
Work is underway to introduce 
Aadhaar-based biometric authentication, 
aimed at simplifying onboarding and 
boosting regulatory compliance.
Phase-wise
Rollout initiated in FY25
In the fiscal year 2025, we initiated the 
rollout of our customer onboarding 
process, successfully partnering with two 
vendors to enhance efficiency. We accept 
various forms of identification, including 
Aadhaar, Driving Licence, Passport, and 
Voter ID as valid ID proofs.
For customers submitting Aadhaar as 
their Official Validated Document (OVD), 
we have implemented a system to fetch 
details from DigiLocker, supported by our 
vendor, starting from February 27, 2025. 
Additionally, we ensure the liveness of 
both the customer and the submitted 
document through vendor assistance.
When customers provide a Driving 
Licence, Passport, or Voter ID, we 
retrieve and validate the details against 
the respective government databases. 
For those submitting a PAN card, we 
validate the PAN number through the 
NSDL with vendor support.
It is important to note that customers who 
were previously onboarded manually 
will be required to complete the current 
onboarding process before engaging in 
any transactions.
Tech-Enabled Lending 
Transformation in 
Microfinance
Geo-tagged Disbursement 
Controls
Loan disbursement is now allowed only 
in geographies with <2% PAR, ensuring 
prudent portfolio growth.
12 Lakhs+  
KYC verifications  
processed digitally
Customised Income Scorecard
A new income scorecard tool enables 
more accurate credit assessments for 
microfinance customers, particularly in 
underserved areas.
Deployed across 100% 
Of Asirvad branches
Advanced Cybersecurity and 
Data Protection
To maintain the integrity of our systems, 
our cybersecurity ecosystem includes:
	 Central monitoring via CPI.
	 Internal IT audits.
	 USB disablement, antivirus protocols, 
and external email filtering.
	 Advanced threat protection rollout to 
isolate and neutralise risks in real time.
Enterprise System Upgrades
Migration of Vehicle Finance Loans
Around 2 Lakhs vehicle finance 
loans were successfully migrated 
to a new proprietary platform built 
by MACOM, improving operational 
efficiency and enabling analytics- 
driven servicing.
Innovating for the Future
AI-Based Chatbot (Under 
Development)
We are developing an AI-powered 
service chatbot using ChatGPT 
architecture to enhance query 
resolution and response accuracy 
across digital channels.
Centralised Data Analytics 
Platform
We have initiated the setup of a robust 
analytics platform that will:
	 Personalise loan offerings.
	 Enhance cross-sell/upsell capabilities.
	 Improve risk-based decisioning and 
credit monitoring.
MAFIL supported a wide range 
of impactful community projects 
during the year to:
	 Strengthen access to quality education 
through schools, coaching centres, 
and skill development institutes.
	 Enhance healthcare delivery via 
diagnostics, counselling, ambulance 
services, and medical aid.
	 Improve rural infrastructure and 
provide direct support for housing, 
education, disability, and livelihood.
	 Uplift marginalised communities 
through student welfare, civil society 
partnerships, and community welfare 
programmes.
	 These initiatives collectively advance 
inclusive growth and sustainable 
community development.
Tech-Led Brand
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
13
A Brand Rebuilt Around the  
New Consumer
Brand and Marketing
We continue to be recognised as one of India’s most dependable and 
relatable financial brands. Our credibility is built on trust, sustained visibility, 
and a deep-rooted presence in the communities we serve. In FY25, we 
adopted a strategic mix of traditional presence and digital intelligence to take 
our message to the right audiences, sharper, faster and in context.
From regional campaigns for higher-ticket gold loans to deeper digital engagement supporting our Online Gold Loan (OGL) platform, 
our outreach was designed to align with evolving consumer behaviour. Our social footprint remained vibrant and informative, enabling 
us to remain close to our customers across every stage of their financial journey.
Scaling Our Digital 
Presence
With mobile-first users and digital 
gold loans on the rise, we deepened 
our presence across social platforms 
to strengthen awareness and enable 
discovery.
Strengthening Brand 
Recall with Celebrity 
Endorsements
Our ambassadors played a pivotal 
role in building regional affinity and 
customer confidence – particularly 
for high-value gold loans.
Hyperlocal Outreach  
that Resonates
With over 5,357 branches 
(on consolidated basis), our 
grassroots marketing approach 
continued to be a differentiator in 
smaller towns and rural markets.
	 Launched a refined content 
strategy with support from 
a digital agency.
	 Rolled out service 
explainers, product demos, 
customer testimonials, and 
festive offers.
	 Actively used 
regional targeting and 
location-based content 
across Facebook and 
Instagram.
	 Supported 80%+ digital 
sourcing for Online Gold 
Loans (OGL).
	 Strengthened the role of 
WhatsApp and YouTube as 
service touchpoints.
	 Region-specific 
endorsement strategy 
tailored to cultural nuances.
	 Campaigns positioned 
around security, speed and 
simplicity.
	 Focussed promotions for  
` 5 Lakhs+ gold 
loan products in 
selected markets.
	 Content adapted across 
television, print, in-branch 
visuals, and digital.
	 Door-to-door 
awareness drives and 
community events.
	 Regional creatives in local 
languages.
	 Distribution of informative 
brochures and flyers.
	 In-branch marketing with 
QR codes, posters and 
digital kiosks.
	 Targeted messaging to 
attract first-time and 
underserved borrowers.
Key initiatives:
Key initiatives:
Key initiatives:
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
14
Customer Touchpoints  
That Matter
Customers receive instant 
notifications about new offers and 
schemes directly on social channels 
(Facebook, Instagram, YouTube).
Interactive content and short videos 
helped demystify products and share 
success stories from real customers.
We strengthened our dedicated 
WhatsApp channel to enable easier 
product discovery, scheme details, 
and service queries.
Our national toll-free number 
continued to serve as a direct access 
point for customer assistance 
greivance redressal and product 
clarifications.
Real-time Updates
Dynamic Content Campaigns
WhatsApp for Service
Toll-Free Line
Digital Reach and Engagement (FY25)
8,85,470  
Facebook followers
25.13%
55,715  
Instagram followers
11.12%
1,12,203  
LinkedIn followers
18.76%
4,06,617  
YouTube followers
182.81%
16,407  
Twitter followers
6.12%
Brand and Marketing
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
15
Evolving the Gold Standard
Gold Loans Business
	 As India’s second-largest gold loan provider, we continued to build  
	
	 on our core strength, responsible, high-velocity lending backed by  
	
	 deep reach, trust, and digital innovation. In FY25, we reinforced our 
leadership in the gold loan space by strengthening our digital ecosystem, 
sharpening customer segmentation, and maintaining operational efficiency, 
even in the face of evolving market dynamics and competitive intensity.
Our gold loan business contributed 59.5% 
to consolidated AUM, with the standalone 
AUM growing by 19.3% YoY, supported by 
focussed customer acquisition strategies 
and yield-led stability. With over 25.8 
Lakhs active customers, our franchise 
continues to be one of the most widely 
trusted in India.
Business Highlights of 
FY25
Gold AUM
rose to ` 24,658 crore (Standalone), 
registering a 19.3% YoY growth
Average yield
remained stable at 22.35%, 
despite pricing adjustments in 
select markets
Gold Loan customers
stood at 2.58 Million, with 3.1 
Lakhs new customers added 
during the year
Loan-to-Value (LTV)
stood at 57% as of March 31, 2025
Gold Holdings
stood at 56.4 tonnes
GNPA/NNPA
remained below 2% (1.8% and 1.7% 
respectively)
82% of gold loans
were disbursed through our Online 
Gold Loan (OGL) platform
Strategic Shifts and Developments
Targeted Yield Adjustments for 
Premium Borrowers
To remain competitive and attract 
higher-ticket borrowers (` 5 Lakhs+), we 
introduced selective pricing adjustments 
in interest-sensitive branches. This move, 
rolled out in Q3 FY25, improved our 
AUM composition while maintaining 
stable yields.
Acceleration in  
Online Gold Loans (OGL)
Online Gold Loans continued to be a 
game-changer, now accounting for 82% 
of our gold loan book, up from 57% in 
FY24. The Manappuram OGL platform 
offers 24/7 access to funds with instant 
disbursement and multi-language app 
availability, significantly improving 
customer convenience and service speed.
Pan-India Physical Footprint
With a network of 4,044 (consolidated 
basis) gold loan branches and strong 
presence across urban, semi-urban, and 
rural geographies, our reach is unrivalled. 
Our service model combines doorstep 
appraisal, digital onboarding, and 
branch-based engagement, delivering 
flexibility to every segment of customer.
Gold Loans in the Indian Economy
Gold has long held cultural, social, and economic significance in India – serving both 
as an emotional asset and a financial cushion. It remains a critical tool of self-reliance 
for families and small businesses, especially in times of volatility. The Indian gold 
loan market continues to grow, driven by rising gold holdings, credit inaccessibility 
in rural areas, and increasing preference for short-term liquidity.
With over two decades of experience and 56.4 tonnes of gold under custody, Manappuram 
is well positioned as a trusted, tech-led leader in this essential segment of Indian credit.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
16
FY25 Segmental Performance Summary
191
71
44.6
65.3
2.6
5.4
199
62
56.6
68.0
2.4
5.6
190
60
57.4
60.1
2.3
5.4
207
58
58.5
58.8
2.4
5.9
247
57
67.8
56.4
2.4
7.0
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 23
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 22
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
FY 21
Gold AUM  (` Billion)
Loan to Value  (%)
Avg. Loan Ticket Size  (` ‘000)
Gold Holdings  (Tonnes)
Customer Base  (Mn)
Avg. Gold AUM per Branch  (` Cr)
The Way Forward
We remain confident of 20%+ AUM 
growth in the gold loan business in 
FY26, supported by:
	 Broader adoption of OGL and 
digital self-service tools.
	 Further customisation of 
gold loan products to suit 
borrower profile.
	 Continued regional expansion, 
backed by the evolving 
regulatory landscape.
GOLD 
LOAN 
GROWTH
LEVERS
Relocation & 
Revitalisation of Non- 
performing branches
Business 
Associates/DSA 
Channel Business
Celebrity 
Endorsement
Online 
Gold Loan
Digital 
Marketing
Local Marketing 
Activities
Low interest rate 
sensitivity given 
small ticket size, 
Short tenor and 
convenience 
of product
Manappuram  
has undertaken 
various cost 
rationalisation 
initiatives
Significant  
operating expense 
leverage as  
new branches 
mature
Gold Loans Business
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
17
Staying the Course  
Through Cycles
Microfinance (Asirvad Microfinance)
	
FY25 was a year of reckoning for India’s microfinance sector,  
	
marked by borrower over-leverage, regulatory headwinds,  
	
and state-level disruptions. Asirvad Microfinance, one of India’s 
largest NBFC-MFIs and a material subsidiary of Manappuram, faced 
significant stress during the year. Yet, our response was swift, disciplined 
and rooted in long-term sustainability – reinforcing our belief that course 
correction today builds resilience for tomorrow.
We tightened underwriting, strengthened collections, and introduced new customer-level risk filters. Though the portfolio degrew, 
our interventions have laid the foundation for a more controlled and sustainable recovery in FY26.
FY25 Performance Snapshot
Indicator
FY24
FY25
YoY Change
AUM (` Cr)
10,940
7,207
↓ 34.1%
Stage-III Loans (%)
5.8%
8.3%
↑ 250 bps
Net NPA (` Cr)
` 224
` 177
↓
Active Borrowers
4.1 Mn
3.6 Mn
↓
Disbursement 
Restriction
—
Active in PAR <2% 
branches only
New in FY25
Strategic Measures in FY25
	 Disbursements restricted to centres 
with <2% PAR (portfolio at risk).
	 100% biometric verification and 
enhanced 
income 
scorecard 
introduced.
	 Collection-led incentives offered to 
branch teams to preserve efficiency.
	 Strengthened risk framework beyond 
industry SRO guardrails.
	 Business refocus on lower-risk zones; 
high-risk branches paused.
The Way Forward
FY26 will focus on 
portfolio stability, 
controlled expansion, 
and deeper 
borrower-level diligence. 
With systems calibrated 
and collections 
stabilising, we expect to 
rebuild from the bottom 
up –  one resilient loan 
at a time.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
18
Affordable Housing with 
Responsible Lending
Housing Finance  
(Manappuram Home Finance Ltd.)
	
Manappuram Home Finance (MAHOFIN), a wholly-owned 
	
subsidiary of Manappuram Finance, continued to scale up its  
	
presence in the affordable housing segment in FY25, despite rising 
interest rates and evolving customer credit profiles. Our strategic focus on 
low-ticket, secured housing credit for self-employed borrowers helped us 
grow with prudence, resilience, and social relevance.
Our operating model is designed 
to deliver long-term value through 
customer-centric underwriting, a 
lean cost structure, and co-located 
branches that leverage the parent 
company’s infrastructure across India. 
With a deep-rooted presence in South 
and West India, we are expanding our 
role as an enabler of financial dignity and 
homeownership for the underserved.
FY25 Performance Snapshot
Indicator
FY24
FY25
YoY Change
AUM (` Cr)
1,510
1,824
↑ 20.8%
ROA (%)
1.53%
1.37%
↓ 0.16 BP 
GNPA (%)
2.4%
2.4%
Stable
No. of Branches
65
89
Expanding
Share of Self-employed  
Borrowers
>90%
93%
Consistent
  Credit Ratings
CRISIL AA- (Stable), 
CARE AA- (Stable)
CRISIL AA- (Stable), 
CARE AA- (Stable)
Affirmed
Microfinance | Housing Finance
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
19
Strategic Priorities and Initiatives
Product Positioning:
Focus on small-ticket home loans for mid- 
to low-income self-employed borrowers, 
particularly in Tier 2–4 towns.
Operational Efficiency:
Lean, low-cost model leveraging co-located 
gold loan branches.
Credit Discipline:
Strong underwriting controls through 
decentralised appraisals and centralised 
credit audit.
Technology and Collections:
Wider adoption of digital EMI platforms 
and in-house collection teams for localised 
efficiency.
Training & CRM:
Continuous skill-building through online 
modules and a robust CRM-integrated loan 
management system.
PMAY Focus:
Renewed emphasis on direct sourcing and 
marketing for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 
subsidies.
FY25: Business Strategy in Action
Focus Area
Strategic Execution
Customer  
Profile
93% of customers are self-employed; majority from 
informal sectors.
Geographic  
Expansion
Strengthening presence in South and West India; focus on 
untapped Tier 3/4 locations.
Underwriting  
Approach
Mix of decentralised decision-making and central oversight to 
manage risk effectively.
Servicing &  
CRM
EMI collections through digital platforms and localised 
engagement.
Loan Ticket  
Size
Emphasis on lower-ticket, high-volume loans to minimise risk 
and improve accessibility.
Sourcing  
Channels
Enhanced field-level marketing, cross-sell from gold loan 
branches, and direct PMAY-led campaigns.
The Way Forward
With AUM crossing ` 1,800 
crore and asset quality in check, 
Manappuram Home Finance is well 
positioned to expand its relevance 
across India’s affordable housing 
ecosystem. FY26 will focus on:
	 Deepening presence in 
semi-urban and rural locations.
	 Improving asset-turnover 
efficiency through tech-led 
disbursals.
	 Increasing PMAY & RHISS-led 
sourcing and support.
	 Investing in a sustainable growth 
engine that balances purpose 
with profitability.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
20
Calibrated Growth with  
Portfolio Precision
Vehicle & Equipment  Finance
	
Our Vehicle & Equipment Finance (VEF) business continued  
	
to expand selectively in FY25, recording a 16.1% YoY growth in  
	
AUM. However, performance was uneven during the second 
half, as we consciously pulled back on disbursements in underperforming 
categories like two-wheelers and farm equipment to safeguard asset quality.
We tightened underwriting, strengthened 
collections, and introduced new customer-level 
risk filters. Though the portfolio degrew, 
our interventions have laid the foundation 
for a more controlled and sustainable 
recovery in FY26.
AUM  (` Cr)
Portfolio 
Composition  
GNPA (%)
	 Increase penetration into Rural and Semi 
Urban locations.
	 Digital Lending Platform and automated 
approval process in TW loans.
	 Brand Tie-ups – With Manufacturer for 
better reach.
	 Covering 3,000+Co-located Gold loan 
branches for collection and marketing 
distribution.
	 Digital Loan Agreement Signing with 
E-Stamping for cost saving and customer 
convenience. 
	 CRM tool integrated with the loan 
management system for building long-term 
relationships with our customers. 
Analytics
Mobility Solution
Deep Penetration
Data Analytics for quicker decisions, 
reduced cost and increased efficiency
On-the-go solution with m CAS /  
m Collect to reduce collection cost
Deeper penetration in existing locations 
and Use of MAFIL (GL) branches as 
sourcing / collection point helping in 
cost optimisation
Profit  
Optimisers
4,773
FY 25
4,111
FY 24
6.7%
FY 25
2.67%
FY 24
FY 25
FY 24
51%
26%
17%
6%
6%
15%
31%
48%
CV
Cars
2W
Farm Eqp
Vehicle & Equipment Finance
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
21
Creating Impact through Targeted 
Credit and Inclusive Finance
MSME and Personal Loan Business
	
We continued to strengthen our MSME and Personal Loan  
	
business in FY25, building on its mission to provide accessible  
	
credit to India’s vast underbanked population. With offerings 
spanning across small-ticket secured lending, affordable housing, and 
digitally-enabled personal loans, this segment has evolved into a strategic 
contributor to the company’s diversified lending portfolio.
The MSME vertical has been 
instrumental in empowering India’s 
grassroots economy. The product 
caters to the credit needs of small 
traders, local manufacturers, and 
self-employed entrepreneurs - 
offering secured loans ranging from 
` 1 Lakh to ` 50 Lakhs, backed by 
property collateral. With tenures from 
12 to 180 months, the loans are 
tailored for flexibility, enabling 
borrowers to manage working capital 
gaps, expand operations, or invest in new 
machinery.
In FY25, the MSME loan book stood 
at ` 3,079 crore, up from ` 2,908 crore 
in FY24, registering a steady growth of 
5.9% year-on-year. The growth came 
despite a cautious lending environment 
and was driven by a calibrated 
underwriting approach, enhanced 
risk controls, and deeper penetration 
into Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns.
Micro Home Finance: 
Affordable Housing for 
Everyday Aspirations
Manappuram’s Micro Home Finance 
business targets the credit needs of 
economically weaker sections and 
lower-income groups seeking to build or 
improve their homes. These include loans 
for construction, renovation, electrical 
and plumbing works, kitchen upgrades, 
and sanitation infrastructure.
Loan sizes typically range between 
` 1 Lakh and ` 15 Lakhs, with extended 
repayment tenures and competitive rates, 
high-end loans going up to ` 50 Lakhs. 
The loans are fully secured against 
property and are backed by field-level 
customer onboarding, income verification, 
and property appraisal mechanisms.
	 Loans to Business & Service Providers
	 Loan Against Property (LAP)
	
These products continue to support real-economy borrowers with minimal 
access to formal banking credit.
	 Home Construction Loans
	 Home Improvement Loans
	 Loan Against Property (for 
housing-related needs)
Key product types include
Key product types include
With a strong collection mechanism and 
low delinquency trends, the segment 
remained stable even in a challenging 
macro environment.
MSME Loans: Supporting Small Businesses with  
Big Aspirations
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
22
Secured Personal Loans: 
High-Ticket Loans with  
Speed and Security
This segment is designed for borrowers 
looking for larger loan amounts against 
personal or business properties. 
The average ticket size ranges between 
` 2 Lakhs and ` 15 Lakhs, with high- 
end loans going up to ` 50 Lakhs. 
Customers benefit from lower interest 
rates compared to unsecured options and 
enjoy quick disbursal within 3–7 days, 
driven by strong internal processing and 
legal appraisal systems.
In FY25, the segment continued to 
witness momentum, particularly in the 
` 5 Lakhs+ category, after Manappuram 
rationalised its interest rate offerings in 
select branches. This move helped to 
attract a more premium customer base 
in urban and semi-urban areas.
The digital loan product played a pivotal role in customer acquisition, especially in 
geographies where traditional branches are yet to expand.
Strong risk-adjusted returns, quick 
turnaround time, and minimal 
documentation continue to be key 
differentiators in this category.
The product portfolio includes:
Property Loan  
(Secured)
Instant  
Property Loan
Balance Transfer 
with Top-up
Spot Property  
Loan
Stree Shakti Property 
Loan (designed for 
women entrepreneurs 
and salaried borrowers)
Unsecured Digital Personal Loans: Instant Credit in a Tap
Catering to digitally-savvy borrowers, Manappuram’s unsecured personal loan 
product is fully online and requires no physical documentation. It leverages app-based 
onboarding, biometric e-KYC, and AI-driven credit underwriting to disburse small-ticket 
loans instantly to eligible customers, especially salaried professionals and repeat 
customers.
The loan lifecycle, from application to disbursal to repayment, is completely paperless 
and user-friendly, making it ideal for younger demographics and urban users. In FY25, 
the platform witnessed increased adoption due to improved app experience and regional 
language accessibility.
Performance Highlights
	 100% digital process
	 Instant approval & disbursal
Key Features:
	 No documentation or physical visits
	 24x7 application & repayment support
AUM Evolution (In ` Cr)
AUM Mix (%)
GNPA (%)
 2,908
2.8
1.7
3,079
37
36
34
42
20
20
9
2
5.1
4.8
FY 25
FY 25
FY 25
FY 24
FY 24
FY 24
YoY 
Growth
+5.9%
MSME & Others
  GNPA    
  GNPA (Excl. Digital PL)
  MSME     
  Micro-Housing
  Secured PL    
  Unsecured PL
2025
MSME and Personal Loan Business
2024
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
23
Business Strategy
	 Stronger in rural and semi-urban 
locations (Tier 3 / 4); scope to 
increase 
penetration 
across 
additional branches.
	 Different products are disbursed 
in 150+ branches across states 
at present; ramp-up across 
branches underway.
	 Predominantly digital collections (80% 
overall) with 78% and 82% for secured 
and unsecured PL.
	 Diverse product portfolio covering 
secured & unsecured loans for both 
salaried and self-employed customers 
(c.66% self-employed).
	 Huge cross-sell potential with existing 
gold loan customers; proprietary 
gold loan data used as input for 
underwriting.
	 CRM tool integrated with loan 
management system to build 
relationship with customer from 
beginning.
PROPELLING 
GROWTH WITH 
EFFECTIVE 
FINANCIAL 
STRATEGIES
The Way Forward
Looking ahead, the focus will 
be on scaling secured loans, 
strengthening digital unsecured 
products, and enhancing customer 
lifecycle value through bundled 
credit offerings. MSME lending 
will focus on and document-light 
profiles, while Micro Home Finance 
will expand in partnership with 
affordable housing developers and 
local authorities.
Growth Drivers for Future 
Expansion
	 Geo expansion to existing gold loan 
branches pan-India, along with 
introduction of new schemes
	 Low-cost operation model based on 
co-location with parent branches
	 Investment in training and 
development of human  
resource through online  
mode
Origination and Sourcing
	 Better penetration in Tier 3 and 
Tier 4 towns
	 Direct sourcing through field-level 
marketing, digital marketing, and 
cross-selling (gold loan customers)
Customer Servicing,  
Collections
	 Strong Customer Relationship 
Management Team
	 Digital payment platforms 
for managing EMI collections 
efficiently
	 A dedicated in-house local 
collection team
Underwriting
	 Decentralised underwriting and 
disbursement for lower ticket size 
loans at branch level
	 Compliance with policy parameters 
via ground-level Credit Audit & 
Centralised credit monitoring
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
24
The Way Forward
MACOM aims to deepen its capabilities in automation, AI, and analytics 
to better serve the Group’s evolving digital needs. Planned innovations 
include customer intelligence engines, improved API-based integrations, 
and a stronger DevSecOps culture, ensuring agility, scalability, and 
security at every touchpoint.
Enabling Digital Infrastructure for 
Scalable Growth
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Ltd 
(MACOM)
	
MACOM serves as the Group’s dedicated IT arm, powering digital  
	
transformation across business lines through intelligent  
	
automation, system integration, and data security. The subsidiary 
offers services in application development, IT support, and consultancy, 
enabling faster innovation cycles and streamlined operations.
FY25 Developments and 
Achievements
Enterprise Upgrades:
Modernised 14 key business applications, 
including Gold Loan and lending modules, 
for enhanced functionality and cloud 
readiness.
Adoption of Cloud-Native 
Technologies:
Integrated advanced tools such as Pub/Sub, 
AlloyDB, and Google Kubernetes Engine 
(GKE) to drive scalability and performance.
Low-Code Platforms:
Deployed low-code development 
environments to streamline internal build 
processes and reduce time-to-market for 
digital features.
AI Chatbots:
Introduced multilingual, AI-powered bots 
to improve 24x7 customer engagement 
and support.
Security Incident Management:
Responded swiftly to an isolated 
unauthorised access event in Q1 FY25 with:
	 A provision of ` 197.8 Million.
	 A settlement agreement with the 
impacted client.
	 Strengthened cybersecurity controls.
Certifications:
Achieved ISO 27001:2022 certification, 
reinforcing commitment to data security 
and governance.
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Ltd (MACOM)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
25
Simplifying Insurance Through 
Tech-Enabled Reach
Insurance Distribution (MAIBRO)
	
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited (MAIBRO), a wholly-owned
	
subsidiary and IRDAI-licensed broker, offers a broad suite of life and
	
non-life insurance products through an omni-channel model. It focusses 
on driving awareness, access, and adoption of insurance among retail customers, 
especially first-time and underinsured segments.
FY25 Developments and 
Achievements
Customer Reach:
Serviced over 1.84 Million customers with 
a growing presence across India.
Digital Platform:
Enhanced the MaSuraksha e-commerce 
portal for easy access to a broad suite 
of life and non-life insurance products.
Agent Network:
Expanded to over 5,000+Point-of-Sale 
(POS) agents, enabling last-mile policy 
distribution.
Claim Efficiency:
Maintained a strong 95% claim settlement 
rate, reinforcing customer trust.
Recognition:
Featured among India’s Top 10 insurance 
broking startups (2023) for digital 
innovation and reach.
Financial Performance:
Recorded revenue of ` 702.91 Million 
and PAT of ` 517.78 Million, impacted 
by market headwinds (↓ from ` 732.33 
Million in FY24).
The Way Forward
MAIBRO is focussed on further expanding its digital presence, enhancing POS agent enablement, and enriching customer 
experience through AI-led advisory and frictionless claims processing. With increasing awareness and regulatory support, the 
business is poised to play a key role in bridging the insurance protection gap in India.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
26
Trusted Partner in  
Global Remittances
Forex and Money Transfer
	
Manappuram’s fee-based services in foreign exchange and money 
	
transfer continue to be a vital link for NRIs, students, migrant  
	
families, and international travellers. Backed by an Authorised 
Dealer Category-II licence from the RBI, we provide secure, compliant, and 
accessible solutions across all the branches, with a stronghold in South 
India, particularly Kerala.
We are the Indian agent for Western 
Union and are tied up with three other 
inward remittance partners, enabling fast 
and reliable cash transfers often without 
requiring a bank account. Our service 
model ensures ease of access while 
maintaining strict regulatory compliance 
under FEMA guidelines.
FY25 Highlights:
	 Enabled monthly inward remittances 
of ` 19 Million, with Western Union 
contributing 82% of the volume.
	 Money Transfer service is available in 
all MAFIL Gold loan branches.
	 Currently, we do not have any active 
sub-agents.
	 Introduced digital support features 
for smoother onboarding and 
transaction tracking.
	 Enhanced compliance systems 
through integration with RBI reporting 
platforms.
	 Delivered improved turnaround times 
for retail forex customers at our 
selected branch counters.
What’s Ahead
We aim to expand co-located forex and remittance counters across Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns by leveraging the existing MAFIL 
branch network, while enabling UPI-linked notifications and digital touchpoints for real-time customer engagement. Additionally, 
we plan to explore new partnerships to strengthen corridor coverage and extend service availability.
Insurance Distribution (MAIBRO) | Forex and Money Transfer
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
27
Building a Simple, Secure, and 
Inclusive Payments Ecosystem
Payments Business 
	
Launched in 2017, MAkash is Manappuram’s prepaid payments  
	
platform, aimed at promoting financial inclusion in semi-urban and  
	
rural areas. With RBI authorisation to issue Prepaid Payment Instruments 
(PPI), MAkash empowers customers with convenient access to cashless services 
such as bill payments, mobile/DTH recharges, and UPI transfers.
FY25 Developments and 
Achievements
User Base:
Maintained an active base of 5,900 users, 
primarily in underserved and semi-urban 
locations.
Transaction Volume:
Facilitated 1,35,264 transactions, amounting 
to ` 94.36 crore.
Platform Features:
	 Supported bill payments, DTH/mobile 
recharges, and UPI-based transfers.
	 Enabled wallet top-ups via Net 
Banking, Debit Cards, UPI, or in-branch 
cash loading.
Channel Strength:
Leveraged MAFIL’s physical branch 
network to assist users with onboarding 
and transaction execution.
Mobile App:
Enhanced the MAkash mobile app 
interface for better usability across diverse 
customer profiles.
The Way Forward
MAkash is set to evolve into a more interoperable and secure platform through deeper UPI integration and expanded service 
offerings. With India’s digital payments momentum continuing, MAkash will play a complementary role in Manappuram’s 
broader strategy of enabling full-stack financial services for every customer segment.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
28
Our Way 
Towards 
Building on a 
Responsible 
Business
At Manappuram, we believe 
responsible business is 
not just a value, it’s a duty. 
As a conscientious NBFC, we 
are committed to embedding 
sustainability at the heart of 
everything we do.
Drive 
focussed, 
measurable 
and 
meaningful 
impact 
across every 
stakeholder 
we serve.
We align with globally recognised ESG frameworks, prioritising 
what matters most to our business and its stakeholders. 
From reducing environmental footprint and deepening our 
social outreach to strengthening governance practices, we 
integrate ESG seamlessly into both our long-term strategy 
and day-to-day operations.
Payments Business
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
29
Our Commitment to 
Environmental Stewardship
Environment
	
Sustainability is an ongoing responsibility for us. One we actively  
	
embrace through conscious choices and operational practices.  
	
From optimising energy use to promoting digital workflows, our efforts 
are designed to lower our environmental footprint while driving efficiency.
Energy Efficiency, Elevated
We continue to reduce our energy consumption 
through energy-efficient lighting and air-conditioning 
systems across our branches and Annex offices 
at the Head Office. Our employees are regularly 
sensitised on conservation practices, fostering a 
culture of environmental awareness across the 
organisation. We also leverage clean energy by 
installing rooftop solar systems, which generate 
over 1,00,000 kWh of green electricity annually. 
Our transition from diesel-powered to electric 
vehicles further underscores our commitment to 
sustainability. To encourage this shift, we offer 
incentives to our employees, including a grant of 
`₹5,000 for electric two-wheelers and `₹10,000 for 
electric four-wheelers, reinforcing our collective 
move towards cleaner mobility.
Water and Waste: Conserved with Care
Efficient use of water resources is supported through 
rainwater harvesting and wastewater treatment 
systems at select facilities. On the waste front, we 
maintain partnerships with authorised vendors for 
responsible recycling of e-waste and paper waste. 
Our waste monitoring efforts help us assess and 
implement optimal disposal methods, in line with our 
long-term sustainability goals.
Digital Drives Paperless Impact
Our ongoing digital transformation, particularly in 
loan processing, has significantly reduced paper 
consumption. By embedding automation across 
workflows, we continue to reinforce our commitment 
to a low-impact, paper-light operational model.
	 Reduction in Energy intensity per rupee of 
turnover = 7.82%
	 Reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per 
rupee of turnover = 15.09%
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
30
Where Every Customer Counts
Social (Customers)
	
We strive to deliver exceptional experiences by implementing  
	
strong customer relationship management practices and  
	
leveraging digital technologies. Our diverse range of borrowing  
options is designed to meet the varied needs of our customers.
Manappuram Finance Limited prioritise 
consumer education and protection 
to empower individuals with the 
knowledge and skills to make informed 
choices and safeguard them from 
unfair or deceptive practices. At branch 
level, all our staff are equipped to 
provide necessary information about 
our product and services to encourage 
safe and responsible usage. We use our 
official website and social media posts to 
sensitise and educate customers. 
Customer Relationship Management:
At Manappuram Finance, we prioritise personalised service through dedicated customer relationship management (CRM) executives 
having multilingual skills. Our CRM executives extend warm wishes during festivals, birthdays, and anniversaries, fostering a sense 
of belonging and appreciation. This approach not only addresses our customers’ financial needs but also strengthens our bond with 
them, emphasising our commitment to their well-being and satisfaction.
Customer Feedback 
Review:
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we 
actively gather consumer feedback 
to gauge satisfaction levels across 
various aspects of our operations. 
Our call centre is also utilised for 
collecting additional feedback from 
customers. These measures help us 
to continuously assess and improve 
our services to meet customer 
expectations.
Environment | Social (Customers)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
31
Towards Making a Better World
Social (Community)
	
As a responsible and people-centric financial institution,  
	
Manappuram Finance Limited believes that true progress  
	
lies not just in business growth, but in uplifting the society around 
us. We view Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as an essential part 
of our commitment to nation-building. Our CSR policy is built around the 
core values of inclusivity, sustainability, and empowerment, focussing on 
addressing critical social challenges through long-term interventions in  
the areas of education, healthcare, livelihood, infrastructure, and 
environmental protection.
With the Manappuram Foundation and 
our strategic partner organisations i.e. 
the Lions Club International Foundation 
(India) serving as implementing arms, our 
CSR strategy is executed with precision, 
impact, and a deep understanding of local 
needs. Our programmes are designed 
not only to provide immediate relief but 
to empower communities to thrive in 
the long run.
1,30,000+   
Total CSR Beneficiaries
` 393.76 Million 
Total Amount spend on  
CSR activities  
during the year
Key Initiatives Undertaken
1
SCHOLARSHIP SUPPORT FOR STUDENTS OF VIDYA COLLEGE OF  
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, THRISSUR
Education is a powerful instrument of change, and Manappuram Foundation has 
remained steadfast in its commitment in ensuring access to quality education for 
all. In line with this objective, the Foundation provided scholarships amounting to 
` 25,00,000 to academically meritorious and financially underprivileged students of 
Vidya Engineering College, Thrissur.
This initiative not only relieves students and their families from the burden of educational 
expenses but also enables them to focus fully on academic excellence and skill 
development. The scholarship programme is part of our larger effort to foster inclusive 
education, reduce dropout rates, and build a strong, educated youth base capable of 
contributing meaningfully to the nation’s growth.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
32
2
WINGS ON WHEELS 2024 – EMPOWERING THE DIFFERENTLY ABLED WITH MOBILITY
3
INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT TO CHRIST COLLEGE, IRINJALAKUDA – CONSTRUCTION OF AMPHITHEATRE
Marking a historic milestone – the 75th 
anniversary of Manappuram Finance 
Limited – the Manappuram Foundation 
launched a major initiative titled “Wings 
on Wheels 2024” aimed at promoting 
accessibility and independence for 
differently-abled individuals.
On June 1, 2024, the Foundation 
donated 75 three-wheeler scooters 
to beneficiaries from across Kerala. 
The scooters were customised to meet 
the mobility needs of persons with 
physical disabilities, enabling them to 
commute independently and participate 
actively in society. The event was 
inaugurated by Mr. P. Rajeev, Minister 
for Industries, Law, and Coir, Government 
of Kerala, and attended by several 
esteemed 
dignitaries, 
including: 
Mr. V. P. Nandakumar, Managing 
Trustee, Manappuram Foundation, 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan, Executive 
Director, 
Manappuram 
Finance 
Ltd, Mr. Anwar Sadath, MLA, Aluva, 
Mr. Roji M John, MLA, Angamaly, 
Mr. 
E T Taison 
Master, 
MLA, 
Kaipamangalam, Mr. P P Chitharanjan, 
MLA, Alappuzha, Mr. Saneeshkumar 
Joseph, MLA, Chalakudy, Mr. A V Sunil, 
President, Nedumbasserry Grama 
Panchayath Mr. M J Jomy, Chairman, 
Health & Education Committee, District 
Panchayath, Ernakulam.
The event was a true celebration of 
inclusivity and community solidarity.
Infrastructure plays a key role in 
fostering an environment conducive to 
holistic learning. Recognising this, the 
Manappuram Foundation extended 
financial support to Christ College, 
Irinjalakuda, for the construction of a 
state-of-the-art amphitheatre.
A grant of ` 5,00,000 was provided 
to create a vibrant space that 
facilitates cultural expression, student 
performances, public speaking, and 
educational events. The project aims 
to enrich the learning experience 
and promote artistic and intellectual 
development. The inauguration 
was honoured by the presence of 
Mr. Suresh Gopi, Hon’ble Minister of State 
for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Tourism, 
Government of India.
Social (Community)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
33
4
HEALTHCARE OUTREACH – DONATION OF EECO VANS
5
TOGETHER FOR THRISSUR – EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT FOR CHILDREN ORPHANED BY COVID-19
In a bid to strengthen last-mile healthcare 
delivery, the Manappuram Foundation 
donated EECO vans worth ` 11,67,094 
to: District TB Centre, Thrissur – to 
enhance mobile testing and outreach 
for tuberculosis management, Daya 
Palliative Care Society, Pala – to support 
the transportation of terminally ill 
patients and essential services.
The vehicle handover ceremony was 
led by Mr. V. P. Nandakumar, Managing 
Trustee, and Dr. Sumitha Nandan, 
Executive Director, in the presence of 
Dr. Sreedevi T P, District Medical Officer, 
Thrissur. These mobile units will enhance 
accessibility, enabling critical care to 
reach the doorsteps of patients in need.
Manappuram Foundation joined hands 
with the Thrissur District Administration 
for the initiative “Together for Thrissur”, 
conceptualised by District Collector 
Krishna Teja IAS, to support children who 
lost one or both parents due to COVID-19.
The Foundation contributed ` 10,00,000, 
benefiting 
100 
children 
from 
vulnerable backgrounds. This support 
aims not only to assist in academic 
needs but also to foster emotional 
resilience and offer hope for a 
brighter future. The programme 
demonstrates our commitment to 
standing by communities in times 
of crisis.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
34
6
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY – VEHICLE DONATION TO HARITHA KARMA SENA, VALAPAD
7
Manappuram Snehabhavanam –  
Rural Housing for the Needy
8
DIA CARE PROJECT – 
MILLET-BASED WELLNESS 
NUTRITION FOR TYPE 1 
DIABETIC CHILDR
In a groundbreaking initiative, 
Manappuram Foundation supported the 
“Dia Care Project”, India’s first millet-based 
diabetic wellness nutrition initiative 
targeted at children with Type 1 diabetes. 
This programme offers specially curated 
wellness packs that address the unique 
dietary needs of these children while 
promoting awareness about millet’s role 
in diabetes management.
The Foundation contributed ` 4,42,500 
to the initiative. The official launch 
took place in the presence of 
Ms. Anu Kumari IAS, District Collector, 
Thiruvananthapuram. The programme 
marks a significant step toward blending 
healthcare innovation with nutrition, 
particularly in underserved paediatric 
populations.
Promoting environmental stewardship, 
Manappuram Foundation donated an 
Ashok Leyland Dost Lite vehicle worth 
` 8,35,000 to the Haritha Karma Sena of 
Valapad Grama Panchayath. This initiative 
is designed to enhance solid waste 
management in the area by supporting 
doorstep garbage collection.
The vehicle was handed over by 
Mr. George De Das, CEO of Manappuram 
Foundation, to Panchayath President 
Shinitha V D during a public event held 
at Vattaparathi Beach. The initiative is 
part of our long-term commitment to 
sustainable community practices and 
eco-conscious living.
As part of our rural development 
efforts, the Foundation supported 
the construction of a home under 
the Snehabhavanam initiative for 
Sreelakshmi, a 10th-grade student from 
Valapad, Kothakulam. Her parents, both 
ailing, were unable to provide a stable 
living environment.
This initiative symbolises the Foundation’s 
commitment to transforming lives by 
addressing the basic need for shelter. 
In the reporting year, Manappuram 
Finance Ltd. contributed a total of 
` 
263.65 Lakhs towards rural 
development projects - ` 222.47 Lakhs 
through Manappuram Foundation 
and ` 41.18 Lakhs through Lions Club 
International Foundation (India).
Social (Community)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
35
Prioritising Employee 
Development and Well-Being
Social (Employees)
STRATEGIC HUMAN RESOURCE INITIATIVES AT MANAPPURAM FINANCE LIMITED
Empowering People. 
Enabling Progress.
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we view 
Human Resources as a strategic partner 
in our journey towards sustainable 
growth and operational excellence. 
Under the leadership of our Chief Human 
Resources Officer, the HR function plays 
a pivotal role in shaping an inclusive, agile, 
and future-ready workforce. Our strategy 
focusses on nurturing talent, enhancing 
employee experience, and aligning 
human capital with organisational goals.
Employee Engagement
We believe that an engaged employee is 
a productive employee. Our engagement 
framework includes continuous feedback 
mechanisms, employee recognition 
programmes, and thoughtfully curated 
wellness initiatives. These efforts 
contribute to a positive work culture 
where individuals feel heard, appreciated, 
and connected to the company’s purpose.
Our People Philosophy
32,000+   
dedicated employees across India
Future-focussed, digitally-enabled  
HR systems
Recognised for excellence in  
LCD, engagement, and innovation
Talent Management
We are committed in identifying, 
attracting, and nurturing top talent 
through structured hiring processes 
and targeted outreach. Once onboard, 
employees benefit from tailored training, 
career pathing, and upskilling initiatives 
that empower them to grow with the 
organisation. Our talent management 
approach ensures a highly competent 
and motivated workforce capable of 
driving long-term value.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
36
FOSTERING A CULTURE OF ETHICS, TRANSPARENCEY AND COLLABORATION
Learning Developments
Learning is embedded in the fabric of 
our 
organisation. 
Through 
a 
combination of instructor led 
workshops, online modules, and 
certification programmes, we encourage 
our people to embrace continuous 
development. Our learning ecosys- 
tem supports skill enhancement 
at all levels ensuring both individual 
progress 
and 
organisational 
advancement.
Ethical Practices
We maintain the highest standards 
of Integrity in every interaction with 
customers, colleagues, and partners. 
This ethical backbone reinforces our 
credibility and reinforces trust across 
all levels.
Transparency
We practice open and honest 
communication, ensuring that our people 
are aligned with the organisation’s vision 
and strategies. Clarity in processes, 
policies, and expectations contributes to 
stronger internal cohesion.
Collaboration
Teamwork is a defining trait of our 
organisational culture. We encourage 
cross-functional collaboration to 
leverage diverse insights and promote 
innovation, enabling us to meet goals 
collectively and effectively.
Leveraging Technology to 
Enhance HR Functionality
As part of our broader digital 
transformation journey, Manappuram 
has strategically integrated technology 
into HR operations to elevate efficiency, 
accessibility, and experience. Our digital 
HR approach is anchored in three 
key pillars – Innovate, Differentiate, 
and Execute.
At the heart of 
Manappuram’s success 
is a culture grounded in 
ethics, transparency, and 
teamwork. These values 
are deeply woven into 
our operations and guide 
every decision we make.
Innovate
We adopt modern commu- 
nication tools such as SMS and 
WhatsApp-based platforms, along with 
digital dashboards and scorecards, to 
streamline HR workflows and enhance 
employee out reach.
Differentiate
Through the deployment of CRM 
systems, Mobile Device Management 
(MDM), and Robotic Process 
Automation (RPA), we create distinctive, 
tech-enabled HR experiences 
that enhance service delivery and 
engagement.
Execute
Our backend is fortified with scalable 
infrastructure including private cloud 
solutions and outsourced security 
frameworks. Transitioning from 
traditional PC setups to mobile-first 
platforms has improved responsiveness 
and agility across HR functions.
Social (Employees)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
37
HR AUTOMATION: STREAMLINING PEOPLE PROCESSES
Digital Onboarding
New hires are seamlessly integrated into 
the organisation through a fully digitised 
onboarding system featuring e-forms, 
electronic signatures, and workflow 
automations.
Probation Trackings and 
Confirmation
Automated tracking of probation 
milestones ensures timely feedback 
and 
confirmations, 
supporting 
smooth transitions from probation to 
permanent roles.
Personal Records 
Management
Employee file creation and management 
are digitalised, ensuring secure storage, 
accurate documentation, and easy 
retrieval of personnel data.
Performance Management 
System (PMS)
Our PMS integrates analytics and AI to 
provide continuous performance insights 
and feedback, enabling data-driven 
evaluations and development planning.
Exit Management
The exit process is also fully automated 
from exit interviews to clearance work- 
flows ensuring a structured, respectful, 
and efficient offboarding experience.
To further optimise 
employee lifecycle 
management, several 
HR processes have been 
automated, ensuring 
consistency, speed, and 
user centricity:
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
38
REIMAGINING LEARNING WITH MADU AND AI INTEGRATION
A Holistic Learning 
Ecosystem 
MADU is more than just a training 
platform, it’s a dynamic, digital learning 
hub designed to cater to the varied 
learning preferences of our employees. 
Whether one prefers the structure of a 
classroom or the flexibility of self-paced 
modules, MADU brings together multiple 
formats under one intuitive system:
Classroom Learning
Traditional instructor-led sessions 
continue to play a key role in skill 
development, providing face-to-face 
engagement and hands-on learning.
Virtual Training
 Visual, interactive courses are accessible 
anytime, anywhere, supporting 
on-demand, continuous learning.
E-Learning Modules
Visual, interactive courses are accessible 
anytime, anywhere, supporting 
on-demand, continuous learning.
Blended Learning
A strategic mix of in-person and digital 
formats ensures inclusivity and 
adaptability to different learning needs.
Digital Library
A rich repository of digital books, study 
guides, and tutorial videos empowers 
learners to explore subjects in depth at 
their own pace.
At Manappuram Finance Limited, 
learning never stands still. 
With the development of MADU 
by our in-house Learning and 
Development team, we’ve taken 
a bold step toward creating 
a smarter, more inclusive, 
and future-ready learning 
environment for our workforce.
Social (Employees)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
39
NEXT-GEN LEARNING WITH AI
To further optimise 
employee lifecycle 
management, several 
HR processes have 
been automated, 
ensuring consistency, 
speed, and 
user-centricity:
Customised Learning 
Journeys tailored to 
individual goals, progress, 
and performance.
Predictive Training 
Insights that help identify 
future learning needs 
before skill gaps emerge.
By blending human 
insight with technological 
innovation, the AI-enabled 
MADU platform ensures 
every employee receives 
the right knowledge at  
the right time - driving 
both personal growth  
and organisational  
success.
Intelligent Content 
Recommendations 
based on employee 
roles, interests, and 
learning history.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
40
NURTURING A CULTURE OF WELL-BEING, CONNECTION, AND ENGAGEMENT AT MANAPPURAM FINANCE
BUILDING A CULTURE FOCUSSED ON HEALTH AND INVOLVEMENT
At Manappuram 
Finance Limited, 
we believe 
that a thriving 
workplace is one 
where employees 
feel supported, 
valued, and 
connected both 
personally and 
professionally.
Manappuram’s 
commitment to 
employee well-being 
goes beyond 
the workplace. 
Our wellness 
and engagement 
programmes are 
tailored to inspire a 
healthy, balanced, 
and fulfilling lifestyle:
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we believe that a thriving workplace is one where employees feel 
supported, valued, and connected both personally and professionally. Our employee engagement 
and well-being initiatives are thoughtfully designed to nurture a sense of community, promote holistic 
wellness, and reinforce our commitment to creating a workplace where everyone can grow and flourish.
Annual Sports Meet
Manappuram’s commitment to employee 
well-being goes beyond the workplace. 
Our wellness and engagement 
programmes are tailored to inspire a 
healthy, balanced, and fulfilling lifestyle:
Fitness Wellness 
Programmes
A flagship celebration that unites 
employees from across the organisation, 
fostering camaraderie, teamwork, and a 
shared sense of purpose through spirited 
competition.
Family-Centric Activities
Engagement programmes that extend 
beyond the employee to include families 
strengthening the personal bonds that 
underpin professional success.
Social (Employees)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
41
BUILDING A CULTURE FOCUSSED ON HEALTH AND INVOLVEMENT
At Manappuram 
Finance, we 
understand that a 
fulfilling career is 
supported not only 
by professional 
development but 
also by personal 
well-being.
At Manappuram Finance, we understand 
that a fulfilling career is supported not 
only by professional development 
but also by personal well-being. 
Our employee welfare initiatives are 
thoughtfully designed to support 
our people through life’s important 
milestones and challenges both big 
and small.
From educational scholarships for 
employees’ children to financial 
assistance for marriage, we extend our 
support beyond the workplace. We also 
offer schemes that provide aid for medical 
needs, support during bereavement, 
and maternity care that ensures a 
smooth transition into parenthood, 
empowering women to continue their 
careers with confidence.
To promote sustainability and 
responsible living, we offer financial 
assistance for employees looking 
to purchase electric vehicles, making 
us a proud contributor to a greener 
future. Additionally, our support extends 
to those pursuing higher education, 
helping them grow personally and 
professionally.
These initiatives reflect our commitment 
to creating a compassionate, supportive, 
and empowering workplace where 
employees are not only recognised for 
their contributions but are also cared for 
in every stage of life.
RECOGNISING DEDICATION AND MILESTONES
We believe that recognition goes a long 
way in building motivation and loyalty. 
At Manappuram, we celebrate every 
achievement big or small. Our structured 
recognition programmes include awards 
for excellence, features in internal 
newsletters, and celebratory campaigns 
that spotlight exceptional performance 
and service milestones. We also make it 
a point to celebrate birthdays, wedding 
anniversaries, and work anniversaries 
with personalised greetings because we 
value the person, not just the position.
76.5 hours   
Average E learning  
per employee
8,094   
Probation
32,846   
MAFIL
102   
Contract
8,956   
Female
24,650   
Permanent
23,890   
Male
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
42
SHAPING A PROGRESSIVE : PEOPLE-FIRST CULTURE
At the core of 
our success lies 
a people-first 
philosophy. 
At Manappuram, we 
are not just building 
careers, we are 
shaping a future 
where purpose meets 
passion. Backed by 
digital-first tools, 
a strong culture of 
learning, and an 
unwavering focus on 
employee well-being, 
we continue to 
redefine what it 
means to be a great 
place to work.
21 Lakhs   
Average revenue generated  
through each employee
` 1,171 crore   
Total employees cost
Social (Employees)
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
43
The Backbone of  
Responsible Growth
Governance
	
At Manappuram Finance, governance is not just about  
	
adhering to rules, it is about consistently choosing to do what  
	
is right, transparent, and in the best interest of our 
stakeholders. As we continue our journey from resilience to reinvention, 
the strength of our governance framework remains the foundation upon 
which sustainable progress is built.
We recognise that good governance is 
not static. It evolves with the business, 
with regulations, and with stakeholder 
expectations. In FY25, we continued to 
uphold rigorous governance standards, 
institutionalised through policies, 
structured oversight, and a strong 
ethical culture across every level of our 
operations.
Our Governance Philosophy
We believe that a well-governed company builds enduring stakeholder trust and 
long-term enterprise value. At the core of our governance approach lies a commitment 
to transparency, accountability and ethical conduct, driven by a proactive Board and a 
responsive management.
We maintain a disclosure-led governance culture, where compliance is the floor, not 
the ceiling. This philosophy is embedded in our Board structure, our decision-making 
processes, and our internal control mechanisms. At Manappuram, we believe that 
“Compliance is a cost and Governance is a value”.
Board 
Responsibility to 
all Stakeholders
Fair Treatment 
of all 
Stakeholders
Transparency 
and Timely 
Disclosures
Strategic 
Direction 
and Efficient 
Monitoring 
by the Board
Protection of 
Minority Interests 
and Rights
Our 
Philosophy
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
44
Ethics and Compliance  
at the Core
At Manappuram, integrity is not 
negotiable. We have instituted robust 
policies that define how we engage, 
with customers, regulators, employees, 
partners and society. Our ethics and 
compliance framework reflects our 
zero-tolerance approach to fraud, bribery 
and financial misconduct.
Key 
policies 
reinforcing  
ethical  
governance  
include
Anti- 
Corruption  
Policy
ESG Policy 
(Environment, 
Social, and 
Governance)
Vigilance 
Policy
Whistleblower 
Policy
Code of  
Conduct
Board Diversity: A Balanced 
Perspective
We are proud of the diverse composition 
of our Board of Directors, which brings 
together a wide range of expertise, age 
profiles, academic backgrounds, industry 
experiences and gender perspectives. 
This diversity not only enriches 
Boardroom dialogue but also ensures 
well-rounded decisions aligned with the 
Company’s long-term objectives.
By blending experience with fresh 
perspectives, our Board helps steer the 
Company through evolving regulatory 
landscapes, emerging risks and new 
growth opportunities, with prudence 
and foresight.
As a systemically significant NBFC, 
we understand our responsibility 
to lead by example. In a dynamic 
regulatory environment, we proactively 
refine our governance mechanisms 
to 
remain 
aligned 
with 
both 
statutory obligations and stakeholder 
aspirations.
FY25 was a year of focussed governance 
execution, strengthening oversight, 
ensuring policy alignment with ESG 
priorities, and building internal awareness 
around compliance. These actions are not 
one-time checkboxes but a reflection of 
our larger intent: to grow responsibly and 
govern wisely.
80%  
of our Board members are
independent directors
20%  
of Board are women directors.
At Manappuram, we promote
women empowerment
Reinforcing Governance in a Changing World
Governance
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
45
The Minds Behind the Force
Board of Directors
Dr. Shailesh J Mehta holds a B.Tech from IIT Bombay and an M.S., Ph.D. 
(Operations Research & Computer Science) from Case Western Reserve University, plus 
an honorary Doctorate in Human Letters from California State University. He has over 
45 years of global experience, including leadership roles at Providian Financial, Granite 
Hill Capital Ventures, West Bridge Capital, KeyCorp and Capital Holding Insurance. 
He’s also served on the boards of MasterCard International, PayPal, and Firstsource 
Solutions, and founded the Shailesh J. Mehta School of Management at IIT Bombay.
Dr. Shailesh J Mehta
Chairman, Independent and Non-Executive Director
M
M
M
M
Mr. V. P. Nandakumar holds a postgraduate degree in Science with additional 
qualifications in Banking and Foreign Trade. He took over the family’s one-branch 
money-lending business in 1986 and founded Manappuram Finance in 1992, driving its 
transformation into a leading NBFC with over 5,200 branches, ` 40,000 crore AUM, and 
a diversified portfolio across gold, microfinance, home, vehicle, SME, and personal loans. 
He was profiled among Business World’s 40 Most Valuable CEOs and is a recipient of 
the Hurun Industry Achievement Award (2022) and Elets Financial Success Champion 
Award (2024). He also serves on the Board of Governors of IIM Kozhikode and holds 
leadership roles in Lions Clubs International and FICCI Kerala.
Mr. Abhijit Sen is a seasoned financial services professional with over 40 years of 
experience in banking and finance. He retired as Chief Financial Officer of Citibank, 
India Subcontinent, after nearly two decades with the institution. Post-retirement, he 
has served as an External Advisor to a Big 4 firm and held board positions with Trent 
Ltd., UGRO Capital, Ujjivan Financial Services, and Cashpor Micro Credit. He chairs Audit 
Committees at Kalyani Forge, Credila Financial Services, and has served on the boards 
of NSDL and Citi entities. He holds a B.Tech (Hons) from IIT Kharagpur and a PGDM 
from IIM Calcutta.
Mr. V. P. Nandakumar
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Abhijit Sen*
Independent and Non-Executive Director
M
M
M
C
C
C
M
C
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
46
Mr. Harshan Kollara brings over four decades of experience in banking and financial 
services across India and international markets. He has held senior leadership positions 
at ICICI Bank, Union Bank of California, and Federal Bank, and has also served as 
Executive Director at Experian Credit Information Company of India. With deep expertise 
in foreign exchange, trade finance, cross-border payments, compliance, and governance, 
he also has hands-on experience in setting up institutions and implementing core 
banking systems. Mr. Kollara is an “approved person” under the UK’s Financial Conduct 
Authority and is an alumnus of Mumbai University.
Ms. Pratima Ram is an accomplished banker with over 30 years of experience in 
corporate, international, investment, and retail banking. She held leadership roles at 
State Bank of India in New York and Johannesburg, and later served as Group President 
– Finance at Punj Lloyd and CEO & Whole-time Director at India Infoline Finance. 
She has been on the boards of companies across sectors including finance, energy, 
and consumer goods, and is active in mentoring start-ups in renewable energy and 
agri-tech. An advocate for education, she supports rural school initiatives in Karnataka. 
She is an alumna of the University of Virginia and Bangalore University.
Dr. Sumitha Nandan, a respected medical professional and third-generation member 
of the promoter family, holds an MS in Obstetrics & Gynaecology and is an alumna 
of the Wharton Business School’s Advanced Finance Programme. After a successful 
medical career, she joined the business and led key digital initiatives such as the Online 
Gold Loan platform and digital auction processes to enhance customer experience 
and transparency. She has held leadership roles across various Group entities and, 
following Bain Capital’s investment, will serve as Executive Vice Chairman.
Adv. V P Seemandini is a Senior Advocate designated by the Kerala High Court with 
decades of experience representing Central and State institutions. She practices before 
the Supreme Court, High Courts, and various tribunals, with expertise in constitutional 
matters. A former President of the All India Federation of Women Lawyers, she is 
actively involved in social justice and women’s welfare. She serves on multiple legal 
and government bodies, including the High Court Legal Services Committee and Indian 
Law Reports Council.
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Independent and Non-Executive Director
Ms. Pratima Ram
Independent and Non-Executive Director
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Executive Director
Adv. V P Seemandini
Independent and Non-Executive Director
M
C
M
M
M
M
M
M
M
M
M
M
Board of Directors
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
47
M
M
M
Mr. T. C. Suseel Kumar retired as Managing Director of LIC after a 38-year career, having 
led functions including Investments, Marketing, Risk Management, and International 
Operations. He has served on the boards of LIC Housing Finance, Axis Bank, BSE, and 
others, and contributed to several key board committees. Known for pioneering LIC’s 
market research and millennial strategy, he continues to advise companies across 
insurance, finance, and capital markets.
Mr. Bharat Bhushan is a retired IAS officer with 36 years of experience in policymaking 
across trade, agriculture, tourism, and industry. He served as Chief Secretary of Kerala 
and held leadership roles in aviation, steel, IT, and dairy development. He led iconic 
initiatives like the ‘God’s Own Country’ campaign and was instrumental in setting up 
India’s first IT Park and Semiconductor Policy. He is known for reviving public sector 
enterprises and implementing impactful development programmes.
Dr. Rajagopal has over 34 years of experience in the Reserve Bank of India and 
commercial banking. As Regional Director of RBI for Maharashtra and Goa, he chaired 
key committees for MSMEs and rural banks. He has also served as RBI nominee on 
the boards of Bank of Maharashtra and Global Trust Bank. He holds dual MBAs, a Ph.D. 
in Management, and is a CAIIB. He is currently a consultant and visiting faculty with 
global academic institutions.
Mr. T. C. Suseel Kumar
Independent and Non-Executive Director
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan#
Independent and Non-Executive Director
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
Independent and Non-Executive Director
M
M
M
M
M
M
  Audit Committee 
  Nomination Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee 
  Risk Management Committee  
  Financial Resource and Management Committee 
  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
  Stakeholders Relationship and Securities Transfer Committee 
  IT-Strategy Committee
M = MEMBER  | C = CHAIRMAN
Board Changes (FY 2024-25):
*	 Mr. Abhijit Sen re-appointed as Independent Director for a second term 
effective August 28, 2024.
#	 Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan appointed as Independent Director effective 
 	 March 1, 2024.
	
Adv. V.R. Ramachandran and Mr. P. Manomohanan retired from the 
Board on July 31, 2024.
	
Mr. S.R. Balasubramanian resigned from the Board effective 
	
May 9, 2024.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
48
Recognised for Impact. Rewarded 
for Reinvention.
Awards and Accolades
During the year, Manappuram was honoured with multiple 
awards that reflect our continued efforts to serve communities,  
strengthen governance, and uphold responsible business practices. 
These recognitions highlight the tangible outcomes of our commitment 
to doing business with purpose.
EdelGive Hurun India Award for 
Exemplary Leadership in CSR
CSR Excellence Award –  
16th National Conference by FVTRS
Economic Times CSR Award
Awards and Accolades
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
49
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
51
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
67
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
113
Board’s Report
148
Corporate Governance Report
180
Standalone Financial 
Statements
294
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
51
Management Discussion and Analysis
Manapuram Finance Limited – An Overview
Manappuram Finance Limited (hereafter referred to as “MAFIL” 
or “the Company”) is a prominent non-banking financial 
Company (NBFC) in India, headquartered in Valapad, Thrissur, 
Kerala. Established in 1949, the Company began as a modest 
money-lending operation. Over the decades, it has evolved into a 
diversified financial services provider, offering products including 
gold loans, microfinance, housing finance, vehicle loans, and SME 
financing. The balanced portfolio underscores the Company’s 
commitment to catering to diverse financial needs across various 
customer segments.
The Company is the second-largest gold loan provider in the 
country with a trusted and nationwide reach. The Company is 
the pioneer in offering online gold loan services through ‘OGL’ 
product and cellular vaulting mechanism, enabling customers 
to avail loans 24x7 with minimal documentation from anywhere 
in the world. The Company’s mobile application is available in 
different regional languages to cater to all sections of society 
and regions of the country.
The Company operates through several subsidiaries, each 
specialising in distinct financial services to various customer 
segments across India:
•	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited (AMFL): Acquired in 2015, 
AMFL is a Non-Banking Financial Company-Micro Finance 
Institution (NBFC-MFI) focussing on providing microfinance 
loans to women from low-income households. Its offerings 
include Income Generating Programme (IGP) loans, product 
loans, MSME loans, and gold loans.
•	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited (MAHOFIN): MAHOFIN 
specialises in affordable housing finance, offering loans for 
home construction, improvement, and commercial property 
purchases.
•	
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited (MAIBRO): MAIBRO 
operates as an insurance brokerage firm, providing life and 
general insurance products. It has established tie-ups with 
leading insurance companies to offer competitive quotes 
and services to customers.
•	
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited 
(MACOM): MACOM provides IT solutions, including 
application development for digital personal loans and loan 
management systems.
Economic Overview
Global Economic Overview
The global economy experienced modest growth in 2024, with 
GDP expanding by 3.3%. This performance was underpinned by 
resilient consumer spending and a rebound in international trade, 
which grew by 3.8%, a notable recovery from the subdued levels 
of 2023. Advanced economies contributed to this growth, with 
the United States leading at 2.8% GDP expansion, bolstered by 
strong domestic demand and a robust labour market. In contrast, 
the Euro Area and Japan faced challenges, registering growth 
rates of 0.9% and 0.1%, respectively, due to persistent energy 
price pressures and weak external demand.
Emerging markets and developing economies displayed 
varied performances in 2024. China’s economy grew by 5.0%, 
supported by fiscal measures and a resurgence in manufacturing 
investment, despite ongoing property sector weaknesses. 
India continued its upward trajectory, with robust GDP growth 
positioning it to become the world’s fourth-largest economy 
by the end of the fiscal year, surpassing Japan. However, other 
regions like Latin America and Africa faced headwinds from 
commodity price volatility and high debt servicing costs, which 
dampened investment and growth prospects.
Inflationary pressures began to ease globally in 2024, with 
headline inflation declining from 6.8% in 2023 to 5.7%. 
This moderation was facilitated by the unwinding of supply-side 
constraints and the impact of restrictive monetary policies 
implemented by central banks worldwide. Notably, the Federal 
Reserve, European Central Bank, and Bank of England initiated 
monetary easing in response to moderating inflation and 
concerns over high financing costs. Despite these positive 
developments, the global economic landscape remained fraught 
with uncertainties, including escalating trade tensions and 
geopolitical risks, which posed challenges to sustained growth.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC GROWTH (%)
Source: International Monetary Fund (IMF) April 2025 Report
(P) - Projected
CY 2024
CY 2025(P)
3.3
1.8
4.3
2.8
1.4
3.7
3.0
1.5
3.9
CY 2026(P)
Advanced Economy
Emerging Market & Developing Economies
Global Economy
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
52
Outlook
As per IMF’s April 2025 World Economic Outlook, global 
economic growth is projected to slow to 2.8% in 2025, down from 
3.3% in 2024. This deceleration is attributed to escalating trade 
tensions, particularly the resurgence of protectionist policies by 
the United States under President Donald Trump’s administration. 
The imposition of century-high tariffs has disrupted global supply 
chains, leading to retaliatory measures from key trading partners 
like China, which has responded with tariffs of up to 146% on U.S. 
goods. These developments have dampened international trade 
and heightened policy uncertainty, adversely affecting business 
investment and consumer confidence worldwide.
In 2026, the IMF anticipates a modest recovery, with global 
growth projected at 3.0%. However, this remains below the 
historical average of 3.7% observed from 2000 to 2019. 
Advanced economies are expected to experience subdued 
growth, with the U.S. forecasted at 1.7% and the Euro Area 
at 1.2%. Emerging markets and developing economies are 
projected to grow at 3.9%, with China’s growth forecasted 
at 4.0%. Persistent trade tensions, elevated public debt, and 
demographic shifts, including aging populations, continue to 
constrain economic resilience and growth potential across 
various economies.
(Source: IMF – World Economic Outlook April 2025)
Indian Economic Overview
Compared to global peers, the Indian economy has exhibited 
strong resilience amidst global uncertainty and emerged as 
one of the fastest-growing major economies in the world. 
Robust domestic demand, structural reforms, and policy support 
are the major drivers for economic growth. As per the Second 
Advance Estimates of GDP, India’s GDP growth is expected at 
6.5% in the financial year 2024-25, much lower than the 9.2% 
GDP growth in the financial year 2023-24. This slowdown 
reflects the combination of domestic challenges, including a 
sluggish manufacturing sector, persistent food inflation, subdued 
urban demand, a widening trade deficit, and a decline in private 
investment activity.
Despite the slowdown, India continued a stable growth path, 
driven by growing services and increased infrastructure 
spending. Government initiatives to promote digital 
transformation, financial inclusion, and ease of doing business 
further supported growth. Efforts to diversify trade and sign new 
free trade agreements (FTAs) helped to reduce external risks. 
Rising urbanisation and a growing middle class also contributed 
to higher consumer spending.
Inflation remained a concern in the financial year 2024-25 due 
to global supply chain disruptions and volatile commodity prices. 
In response to evolving economic conditions, the Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI)’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) unanimously 
decided to reduce the repo rate by 25 basis points twice since 
February 2025, bringing it down to 6% on April 9, 2025 from 
6.5%, while maintaining accommodative stance on the economy. 
Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation is estimated at 4.9% in the 
financial year 2024-25, down from 5.4% in the previous year, and 
is projected to reduce further to 4.0% in the financial year 2025-26.
Investment activity is gaining traction on the back of higher capacity 
utilisation, continued government focus on infrastructure, and 
strong balance sheets of banks and corporates. While service 
exports are likely to remain steady, merchandise exports could 
face headwinds from global uncertainties and trade disruptions. 
Outlook
Key government initiatives are expected to play a pivotal role 
in sustaining momentum. The Production-Linked Incentive 
(PLI) schemes continue to attract investment across sectors 
like electronics, pharmaceuticals, and renewable energy. 
Capital expenditure by the government, particularly on 
infrastructure, remains high, targeting roads, railways, and digital 
connectivity. Reforms in labour laws and a push for logistics 
efficiency through the PM Gati Shakti platform aim to improve 
productivity. Additionally, efforts to expand the digital public 
infrastructure and financial inclusion are enhancing economic 
participation and efficiency.
Led by the government’s push for digital transformation, financial 
inclusion, substantial investment and ease of doing business, the 
Indian economy is expected to exhibit strong resilience. As per 
the RBI estimates, the Indian economy is expected to grow by 
6.5% in the financial year 2025-26. Healthy agricultural incomes 
from normal monsoons, a recovery in industrial activity, and 
stronger household consumption aided by tax reliefs in Union 
Budget 2025-26 are expected to support economic growth in 
the financial year 2025-26. 
Source: RBI, 2nd advance estimates of Statistics and Programme 
Implementation (MOSPI)
Industry Overview
Indian Financial Services Industry
The Indian financial services industry is at the cornerstone 
of the nation’s economic framework, encompassing a broad 
spectrum of institutions, including banks, non-banking financial 
companies (NBFCs), insurance firms, asset management 
companies, and a burgeoning fintech sector. As of 2025, the 
industry is experiencing significant transformation, propelled by 
technological advancements, regulatory reforms, and evolving 
consumer behaviours. Despite global economic headwinds and 
monetary tightening in several advanced economies, India’s 
financial services sector has remained resilient. Strong domestic 
demand, a well-capitalised banking system, and proactive fiscal 
policies have insulated the economy from major shocks in the 
past few years. 
In the financial year 2024-25, the Bank credit growth slowed 
to 11%, down from 20.2% in the financial year 2023-24, 
influenced by regulatory tightening, a high base effect, and 
slower deposit mobilisation. Notable growth was observed in 
gold and renewable energy loans, while lending in the retail and 
services sectors experienced a slowdown. Credit to agriculture 
and allied sectors decelerated sharply to 10.4% in the financial 
year 2024-25, down from 20% in the financial year 2023-24. 
Lending to the industrial sector remained largely unchanged at 
8% year-on-year, similar to the previous year. However, loans 
against gold jewellery surged significantly, more than doubling 
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
53
year-on-year, driven by a nearly 50% increase in gold prices. 
Additionally, loans to the renewable energy sector recorded 
an impressive 79% growth, up from 30% in the previous year, 
highlighting the rising interest in clean energy investments.
One of the most significant developments has been the widespread 
integration of advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence 
(AI), especially Agentic AI, across the Banking, Financial Services, 
and Insurance (BFSI) landscape. These tools have enabled 
financial institutions to automate complex operations, personalise 
customer interactions, and significantly reduce turnaround times 
for services. AI-powered systems are increasingly handling 
everything from credit risk assessments to customer onboarding, 
providing 24/7 service with minimal human oversight. This has 
made institutions more agile, efficient, and capable of scaling 
rapidly without proportionate increases in operational costs.
Digital payments & other factors are revolutionising the financial 
landscape in India, marking a significant shift towards a more 
efficient and transparent economy. Some of the major growth 
drivers are:
•	
UPI Dominance: Unified Payments Interface (UPI) reached 
over ` 23.6 Lakhs crore in transaction volumes in April 2025, 
driving a cashless economy.
•	
Smartphone Usage: Growth fuelled by increased 
smartphone use, affordable mobile data, and government 
digital literacy initiatives.
•	
Inclusion of small merchants: Small merchants and Rural 
consumers are actively engaging in the formal financial 
ecosystem, boosting transparency and tax compliance.
•	
Regulatory Support: RBI and SEBI frameworks promote 
innovation while protecting consumer rights; initiatives 
like lowering risk weights on microfinance enhance 
credit access.
•	
Entrepreneurial Boost: Schemes such as CGTMSE have 
enabled Billions in collateral-free lending, stimulating 
entrepreneurship and rural economies.
•	
Gen Z Engagement: With a significant tech-savvy Gen Z 
population, financial institutions are adapting their services 
to meet demand for convenience and ethical practices, 
incorporating mobile-first approaches and AI support.
Outlook
The Indian financial services industry is on the cusp of 
transformative growth, fuelled by technological innovation, 
regulatory reforms, and a rapidly evolving consumer base. 
The adoption of Agentic AI is redefining operations in the BFSI 
sector by enabling real-time decision-making, automation 
of complex tasks, and personalised customer engagement. 
This technological shift, combined with the expansion 
of digital public infrastructure and the success of UPI, is 
accelerating financial inclusion across urban and rural India. 
Government initiatives, such as increased support for MSMEs 
and regulatory backing for digital lending platforms, are 
fostering credit access and enhancing financial empowerment. 
Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India is reassessing bank 
licensing and ownership norms to attract foreign investment and 
ensure systemic scalability.
Looking ahead, the sector’s growth will be bolstered by 
sustainable finance, the rise of green investments, and the 
increasing influence of Gen Z consumers who demand 
digital-first and socially conscious financial services. The mutual 
fund industry, digital banks, and wealth tech platforms are also 
expected to thrive, driven by rising incomes and greater investor 
awareness. With India projected to grow at over 6.5% annually 
and a proactive policy environment in place, the financial services 
industry is well-positioned to become a global leader in inclusive, 
tech-driven financial innovation.
Source: https://www.angelone.in/news/bank-credit-growth-slows-to-12-
percent-in-fy25-amid-regulatory-curbs?utm_source=chatgpt.com
NBFC Sector
The Indian Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) sector has 
become a crucial part of the country’s financial framework, 
complementing traditional banks by addressing the credit 
needs of underserved populations. As of December 2024, the 
total outstanding credit by NBFCs reached ` 52 Lakhs crore, 
and it is projected to exceed ` 60 Lakhs crore by the financial 
year 2025-26. This growth is largely driven by retail lending, 
which, along with housing, vehicle, and consumer durables 
loans, comprises about 58% of the total loan portfolio as of 
December 2024.
The retail lending sector has experienced double-digit growth 
due to rising consumer demand and improved access to digital 
credit channels. Moreover, financing for commercial vehicles, 
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and personal loans 
has also expanded, supported by increasing rural incomes and 
better logistics infrastructure.
Digital innovation is a key factor in the sector’s evolution. 
Partnerships with fintech firms and the use of mobile-first loan 
origination platforms have enabled NBFCs to serve previously 
unbanked regions. Many consumers now utilise mobile 
applications or assisted digital service centres to access financial 
services. The proliferation of Aadhaar-based KYC and the rapid 
adoption of UPI-based digital payments have further streamlined 
loan disbursals.
According to ICRA Ratings, credit growth in the NBFC sector was 
about 17% in the financial year 2022-23 and the financial year 
2023-24, but it is expected to moderate to 13–15% in the financial 
year 2024-25 and the financial year 2025-26. This deceleration 
is not a sign of weakening fundamentals; rather, it reflects a 
maturing sector where institutions are balancing risk and growth 
cautiously.
The rising importance of non-traditional sectors, such as electric 
vehicle (EV) financing and affordable housing, is also noteworthy. 
NBFCs are playing a significant role in facilitating India’s transition 
to a green economy, aligning with broader financial inclusion and 
climate goals.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
54
Changes in funding dynamics are also evident. The Reserve 
Bank of India’s relaxed risk weight norms for bank lending to 
NBFCs have increased the flow of bank financing into this sector, 
allowing NBFCs to reduce reliance on short-term instruments 
and focus on more stable long-term borrowing. Additionally, 
regulatory reforms from the Reserve Bank of India are enhancing 
the transparency and accountability of the NBFC ecosystem. 
This includes harmonising NBFC norms with those for scheduled 
commercial banks and implementing stricter asset classification 
guidelines, ultimately aiming to reduce systemic risks while 
promoting a level playing field.
Outlook
The NBFC sector continues to play a crucial role in achieving the 
Indian government’s financial inclusion objectives. By lending 
to segments such as small and medium enterprises (SMEs), 
first-time borrowers, and rural entrepreneurs, NBFCs are helping 
bridge the credit gap that mainstream banks often fail to address. 
With the use of digital technology and alternative credit scoring 
models, these institutions are redefining lending norms for India’s 
next Billion customers.
As the sector looks ahead, the outlook remains optimistic. 
The NBFC sector will sustain a healthy CAGR of 14–16% over 
the next three years, supported by India’s expanding digital 
infrastructure, favourable demographics, and pro-growth 
policy environment. The continued shift towards digitisation, 
ESG-compliant lending, and retail-oriented products will shape 
the NBFC business model of the future.
In conclusion, the Indian NBFC sector has matured into a 
formidable force in the financial services landscape. With a 
diversified product mix, expanding reach, and a solid regulatory 
framework, it is well-positioned to meet the evolving needs of 
India’s dynamic economy. 
Source: ICRA, NBFC’s credit growth to moderate to 13-15% in FY25 and 
FY26 from 17% witnessed in last two fiscals: ICRA - The Economic Times
Gold Loan Industry
The gold loan industry in India has emerged as a highly dynamic 
segment within the credit landscape, offering expeditious, 
collateral-backed financing to millions, particularly those who 
are underserved by the formal banking system. This industry 
capitalises on India’s cultural affinity for gold and the increasing 
formalisation of financial services in rural and semi-urban regions. 
As of the financial year 2023-24, the overall size of the Indian 
gold loan market was estimated at ` 19.2 Lakhs crore, with 
organised players accounting for 37% and un-organised 
players for 63%. The unorganised sector, which encompasses 
traditional lenders such as local pawnbrokers and family-run 
lending institutions, continues to exert substantial influence, 
especially in Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns. Despite the inherent 
challenges of higher interest rates and limited consumer 
protection, many borrowers remain reliant on these informal 
sources due to minimal documentation requirements, 
immediate fund disbursal, and established trust.
26%
63%
FY 2014
FY 2024
Organised players
Unorganised players
37%
SHARE OF ORGANISED & UN-ORGANISED 
PLAYERS IN GOLD LOAN INDUSTRY 
Source: PWC report titled ‘Striking gold: The rise of India’s gold 
loan market’ dated August 2024
The organised sector, which comprises banks and non-banking 
financial companies (NBFCs), was valued at approximately ` 7.1 
Lakhs crore as of the financial year 2023-24, is experiencing 
rapid growth, facilitated by a variety of favourable conditions 
such as enhanced credit risk models, expanded branch 
networks, and technological advancements that support 
paperless transactions. 
Indian households possess an estimated 27,000 tonnes 
of gold, accounting for about 14% of global gold holdings. 
Despite this substantial asset base, the gold loan market 
penetration remains relatively low at 5.6%, indicating 
significant untapped potential.
Regulatory oversight from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
contributes to increased borrower transparency and strengthens 
the credibility of lending institutions. Innovations such as 
doorstep gold appraisal and mobile-based disbursal options are 
making gold loans more accessible to a broader audience. 
The southern region of India dominates the gold loan market, 
accounting for approximately 79% of the total outstanding loans. 
This dominance is attributed to the cultural significance of gold 
in southern states and the higher per capita gold holdings in 
these regions.
74%
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF GOLD LOANS IN INDIA
Gold loan O/S
Source: PwC analysis
South
West
North
East
4%
79%
10%
7%
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
55
Outlook
Looking forward, the gold loan industry in India is projected to 
double in value by the financial year 2028-29, underpinned 
by several critical trends. A primary factor is the anticipated 
expansion of the organised sector, which is expected to increase 
its market share from 37% to over 50% by the financial year 
2028-29. This transition is driven by the formalisation of lending 
practices, enhanced customer experiences, and a growing trust 
in regulated entities. Furthermore, government initiatives such 
as the Digital India Mission aim to improve broadband and 
mobile connectivity in rural areas, thereby enhancing the digital 
infrastructure required for a swift uptake of gold loans.
Overview of Other Business Verticals
Microfinance Industry (MFI)
The Microfinance Industry (MFI) in India continues to serve 
as a crucial enabler of financial inclusion by delivering credit 
and other financial services to underserved and low-income 
populations. Over time, the sector has evolved considerably, 
adapting to regulatory frameworks and integrating technological 
innovations to better serve a wide spectrum of clients. 
MFIs, especially NBFC-MFIs, have emerged as critical players 
in advancing the government’s financial inclusion agenda and 
supporting the development of economically weaker sections.
Key government schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan 
Yojana (PMJDY), Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY), Atal 
Pension Yojana (APY), and others are designed to extend banking, 
insurance, and pension coverage to unbanked households. 
These programs are aligned with the broader vision of “banking 
the unbanked, securing the unsecured, funding the unfunded, 
and serving the underserved.” The microfinance sector acts as 
a vital bridge between formal financial systems and informal 
economies, contributing significantly to poverty alleviation, 
women’s empowerment, and grassroots entrepreneurship by 
meeting the credit needs of the financially excluded.
MFI INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE
FY24
FY25
1.51
4.34
3.75
1.13
Loan amount disbursed 
Gross loan portfolio 
(` Lakhs crore)
Source: Issue 53, MFIN Micrometre
FY 2024-25 marked a challenging phase for the microfinance 
industry, as growth momentum moderated following a sustained 
period of expansion. As of March 2025, the microfinance 
universe stood at ` 3.75 Lakhs crore in gross loan portfolio 
(GLP), reflecting a sequential decline from ` 4.34 Lakhs crore 
Y-o-Y basis. The contraction was led by NBFC-MFIs, banks, and 
small finance banks (SFBs), whose portfolios declined by 13.7%, 
14.7%, and 20.2% respectively on a Y-o-Y basis. NBFCs were 
the only segment to report a modest growth of 4.1% among other 
financial institutions. The overall number of unique borrowers 
stood at 7.8 crore, with regional concentration highest in the 
East and North-East. Disbursement volumes fell sharply during 
the year, with ` 1.12 Lakhs crore disbursed across 2.2 crore loan 
accounts, a drop of over 25% in value terms.
Despite muted growth, the industry demonstrated operational 
resilience through structural shifts. The average loan size 
increased by 12.3% to ` 50,131, indicating greater ticket 
sizes amid focused underwritings. However, asset quality 
pressures intensified, with PAR 31–180 for NBFC-MFIs rising 
sharply to 6.2% as of March 2025 from 2.0% the previous 
year. Funding availability also tightened during the period. 
NBFC-MFIs received ` 57,307 crore in debt funding during the 
year, a 35.7% reduction year-on-year. The decline in equity base 
(1.8%) and borrowing (11.9%) reflects the sector’s recalibration 
towards prudent expansion, higher risk provisioning, and 
cautious lending strategies. FY 2024-25 was a reset year for 
many players, the underlying fundamentals of client outreach, 
technology integration, and borrower diversification remain 
intact, positioning the industry for a more sustainable rebound.
Outlook
The microfinance sector is expected to navigate short-term 
volatility while positioning itself for a measured recovery 
in FY 2025-26. FY 2024-25 was marked by a contraction in 
disbursements, rising PAR levels, and lower AUM – signalling 
a recalibration phase across the industry. However, the sector’s 
underlying resilience, supported by strong digital adoption, 
gradual funding diversification, and enabling regulatory 
oversight, provides a stable foundation for future growth. 
The focus is expected to shift toward risk-calibrated expansion, 
driven by deeper penetration into underserved markets, 
increased support to MSMEs and rural first-time borrowers, and 
policy tailwinds supporting financial inclusion. Broader economic 
trends – such as the Union Budget’s infrastructure push, real 
GDP growth of over 6%, and export-linked microenterprise 
opportunities – further strengthen the case for revival. 
As national priorities like Atmanirbhar Bharat and Viksit Bharat 
2047 gain momentum, MFIs are poised to play a pivotal role in 
advancing equitable, technology-enabled, and impact-driven 
financial empowerment across India.
•	
Automobile industry
	
In the financial year 2024-25, the Indian automobile industry 
demonstrated resilience and adaptability, achieving record 
sales in several segments despite global challenges. 
The sector’s performance was bolstered by strong domestic 
demand, supportive government policies, and a growing 
emphasis on sustainable mobility. The industry witnessed 
a 7.3% growth in domestic sales and a 19.2% increase in 
exports during the financial year 2024-25, reflecting robust 
demand both domestically and internationally.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
56
	
In the financial year 2024-25, the passenger vehicle 
(PV) segment achieved record sales of 4.3 Million 
units, marking a 2% increase from the previous year. 
This growth was primarily driven by sport utility vehicles 
(SUVs), which comprised nearly 65% of total PV sales. 
Consumer preferences shifted toward SUVs and compact 
utility vehicles due to their superior safety, space, and 
performance. Factors such as technological advancements, 
more accessible financing options, and improved road 
infrastructure further bolstered demand.
	
Conversely, the commercial vehicle (CV) segment 
experienced a slight contraction, with sales declining 
1.2% to 9,56,671 units, attributed to high base effects and 
sluggish industrial demand. In contrast, two-wheelers 
achieved impressive sales of 19.6 Million units, reflecting 
a 9.1% increase, driven by improved rural sentiment and 
increased disposable incomes. The three-wheeler market 
also showed signs of recovery, growing by 6.7% to 7,41,420 
units as urban mobility needs expanded. 
	
Several macroeconomic and structural factors contributed 
to overall growth in the financial year 2024-25. Chief among 
them was the increased availability of financing options. 
Low interest rates, higher loan-to-value ratios, and the 
expansion of non-banking financial institutions into rural 
and semi-urban markets played a vital role in boosting 
vehicle sales. Consumer creditworthiness also improved, 
allowing more first-time buyers to access financing 
with ease. 
(Numbers in Million)
Category
Financial year 
2021-22
Financial year 
2022-23
Financial year 
2023-24
Financial year 
2024-25
Passenger vehicles
3.07
3.89
4.22
4.30
Commercial vehicles
0.72
0.96
0.97
0.96
Three wheelers
0.26
0.49
0.69
0.74
Two wheelers
13.57
15.86
17.97
19.61
Grand total
17.62
21.20
23.86
25.61
Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM)
Vehicle Finance Industry
Vehicle financing continues to play a pivotal role in the Indian 
automobile industry, influencing consumer purchasing decisions 
and market dynamics. Improved credit availability and favourable 
interest rates have enhanced consumer access to vehicle 
loans. The availability of financing options has significantly 
contributed to the growth in vehicle sales across segments. 
Affordable financing schemes have made vehicle ownership 
more accessible, particularly in semi-urban and rural areas.
Outlook
Concurrently, the vehicle financing sector in India is set for 
substantial growth, driven by rising vehicle prices, increasing 
aspirations for vehicle ownership, and greater credit penetration 
in underbanked regions. Financial institutions, including banks, 
non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), and fintech firms, are 
expected to broaden their outreach through digital platforms, 
offering tailored financing solutions with expedited disbursement 
processes. The shift toward digital lending and AI-driven credit 
assessments is enhancing approval timelines and mitigating 
default risks, thereby facilitating access to credit for first-time 
buyers, particularly in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities. Furthermore, an 
increase in disposable incomes, improved credit ratings, and 
supportive regulatory frameworks from the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI) are anticipated to accelerate growth within the vehicle 
financing sector, underpinning the broader expansion of the 
automotive industry.
Housing Finance industry
The Indian housing finance industry plays a pivotal role in driving 
economic growth, ensuring inclusive development, and meeting 
the basic human need for shelter. In a country with a population 
exceeding 1.4 Billion and rapidly accelerating urbanisation, the 
importance of a robust housing finance ecosystem cannot be 
overstated. The industry has evolved significantly over the last 
few decades, supported by favourable demographics, a growing 
middle class, proactive government policies, and increased 
private participation.
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
57
As of 2025, the Indian housing finance market is valued at 
approximately ` 33.3 Lakhs crore, with projections suggesting it 
could grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of around 
15% to reach ` 77–81 Lakhs crore by the financial year 2029-30. 
This expansion is driven by rising urban migration, improving 
income levels, financial inclusion initiatives, and enhanced focus 
on affordable housing.
In India, the housing finance sector has been buoyed by 
government initiatives such as the Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana (PMAY), which aims to provide affordable housing for all 
by 2022. As of March 31, 2025, the loan disbursement in the 
housing finance sector is expected to exceed ` 25 Lakhs crore, 
marking an uptrend driven by both individual consumers and 
real estate developers.
The regulatory landscape governing housing finance is pivotal 
to fostering market stability and protecting consumer interests. 
Regulatory bodies, including the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), 
have introduced various guidelines to enhance transparency and 
ensure responsible lending. Recent policies emphasise the need 
for greater financial literacy among consumers, which is crucial 
for long-term sustainability.
The implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation and 
Development) Act, 2016, has also been instrumental in regulating 
the housing sector, ensuring that buyers are well protected. 
Additionally, regulatory efforts have led to an increase in the 
entry of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) into the 
housing finance market, which has diversified lending options 
for consumers.
The housing finance market offers a variety of loan products 
catering to the diverse needs of borrowers. Home purchase loans 
remain the most popular, accounting for approximately 60% of 
total housing finance. Other prevalent products include home 
improvement loans (which have gained traction due to the rise in 
home renovation projects) and loans against property, allowing 
homeowners to leverage their property’s equity.
Technological innovation is reshaping the housing finance 
sector, providing new opportunities for efficiency and customer 
engagement. Digital platforms are increasingly being used to 
simplify the loan application process, enabling consumers to 
apply for mortgages online. The adoption of artificial intelligence 
and big data analytics in the underwriting process has enhanced 
risk assessment, allowing lenders to make informed decisions 
rapidly. These advancements contribute to a more seamless and 
user-friendly experience for consumers seeking loans.
Outlook
The future outlook for the housing finance industry appears 
promising, driven by a combination of demographic shifts, 
technological advancements, and supportive government 
policies. As urbanisation continues to accelerate, particularly in 
emerging markets, the demand for housing is expected to rise 
significantly. According to various projections, housing finance 
is anticipated to experience a compound annual growth rate 
(CAGR) of around 9.7% through 2030. Factors such as increased 
disposable income, favourable interest rates, and government 
initiatives like affordable housing schemes are likely to stimulate 
home buying. Additionally, the shift toward remote work due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic has prompted many individuals to 
reassess their housing needs, increasing demand for homes 
in sub-urban and semi-urban areas. This trend is expected to 
persist, leading to diverse financing options that cater to a wider 
range of customers, including first-time homebuyers and those 
seeking eco-friendly properties.
Technological innovation will play a crucial role in transforming 
the housing finance landscape. The integration of advanced 
technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, and big 
data analytics will enhance underwriting processes, streamline 
loan applications, and improve risk assessment. Additionally, the 
Source: National Housing Bank, CareEdge Ratings
HOUSING FINANCE INDUSTRY MARKET SIZE (IN ` LAKHS CRORE)
` Trillion
Mar-19
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24
Mar-30E
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
77.1-81.2
33.3
28.6
25.1
22.2
20.0
18.0
CAGR: 13%
CAGR: 15-16%
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
58
rising importance of sustainability in home buying will encourage 
lenders to develop green financing products aimed at promoting 
energy-efficient housing. As consumers increasingly prioritise 
environmental considerations, housing finance institutions 
that incorporate sustainability into their offerings will gain a 
competitive advantage. Overall, the housing finance industry 
is poised for robust growth, characterised by innovation, 
adaptability, and a focus on consumer needs.
Source: 
https://www.careratings.com/uploads/newsfiles/1743423679_
Housing%20Finance%20-%20CareEdge%20Report.pdf
https://www.custommarketinsights.com/report/india-housing-finance-
market/
Insurance industry
The Indian insurance industry is a vital part of the country’s 
financial services sector, playing a key role in economic growth 
and financial inclusion. Over the last three decades, it has 
transformed from a government-controlled monopoly into a 
vibrant, competitive market driven by private players and foreign 
investment. The industry provides risk protection to millions of 
individuals and businesses, mobilises long-term savings, and 
supports social welfare initiatives.
17.91
20.04
2.00
Total
Private life insurers
5.13
16.67
-4.04
1.86
12.11
9.80
Source: Life Insurance Council
FY23
FY24
FY25 (%)
TRACKING NBP GROWTH
LIC
In the financial year 2024-25, the Indian life insurance industry 
recorded a total New Business Premium (NBP) of ` 3.97 Lakhs 
crore, reflecting a 5.13% year-on-year growth over the financial 
year 2023-24. This growth came despite macroeconomic 
headwinds and evolving regulatory changes. The Life Insurance 
Corporation of India (LIC) remained the largest contributor, with 
` 2.26 Lakhs crore in NBP, while private life insurers collectively 
contributed ` 1.71 Lakhs crore. Notably, individual new business 
premiums rose by 11% year-on-year, underscoring rising 
demand for retail protection and long-term savings products. 
Growth was also supported by strong demand for 
non-participating guaranteed plans, which offered stable returns 
amid high interest rates. Overall, NBP data for the financial year 
2024-25 signals steady industry momentum, underpinned 
by strategic distribution, improved product positioning, and 
increased consumer financial awareness. While premium growth 
moderated slightly, structural improvements were evident across 
the sector. Digital adoption deepened, especially in Tier 2 and 
3 cities, enabling efficient customer acquisition and servicing. 
Persistency ratios improved, supported by better policyholder 
engagement and data-driven customer retention strategies. 
Product innovation also accelerated, with a strong push for 
retirement and annuity products addressing the needs of an 
aging population. 
In the financial year 2024-25, India’s non-life insurance industry 
crossed a significant milestone by surpassing ` 3 Lakhs crore 
in gross direct premium underwritten (GDPI). However, this 
landmark achievement was accompanied by a slowdown in 
growth, with the industry expanding by only 6.2% compared to 
a more robust 12.8% in the financial year 2023-24. This marked 
halving of growth reflects a host of structural changes and 
market pressures, most notably the implementation of the 
1/n rule, which changed the way long-term policy premiums 
are recognised. 
Gross Direct Premium Underwritten (GDPI) in ` crore
Insurers
Financial Year 
2022-23
Financial Year 
2023-24
Financial Year 
2024-25
Financial Year 
2023-24 growth
Financial Year 
2024-25 growth
Public General Insurers
82,891.3 
90,252.1 
95,196.0 
8.9%
5.5%
Specialised PSU Insurers
15,817.3 
11,190.4 
11,106.5 
-29.3%
-0.07%
Private General Insurers
1,31,941.8 
1,55,090.5
1,62,895.7 
17.5%
5.0%
SAHI
26,243.9 
33,119.3 
38,413.6 
26.2%
16.0%
Total
2,56,894.2 
2,89,652.3 
3,07,611.8 
12.8%
6.2%
Public sector general insurers collectively grew by 5.5% in 
the financial year 2024-25, slightly improving their market 
performance. This growth was driven largely by strong gains 
in retail health and motor insurance, two areas where public 
players still maintain a presence. In contrast, private general 
insurers, while continuing to dominate the overall market in 
terms of volume, experienced a significant deceleration with only 
5.0% growth, down from 17.5% the year prior.
Outlook
The insurance industry in India is poised for robust growth 
over the next decade, driven by rising income levels, increased 
awareness, and digital transformation. Life insurance penetration 
remains low at 2.8% of GDP, indicating significant headroom for 
expansion. The sector is expected to grow at a compound annual 
growth rate (CAGR) of 10–12%, fuelled by greater adoption in 
Tier 2 and 3 cities, a younger demographic entering the workforce, 
and evolving consumer preferences toward protection and 
retirement products.
Regulatory reforms by the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (IRDAI), such as simplified 
product approvals, increased FDI limits (up to 100%), and 
emphasis on financial inclusion, are creating a more investor- and 
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
59
consumer-friendly environment. Technological advancements 
like AI, data analytics, and digital onboarding are improving 
underwriting, fraud detection, and customer experience. 
Moreover, insurers are diversifying products to cater to niche 
segments, such as women, gig workers, and the elderly, while 
integrating ESG goals into investment strategies. As insurers 
increasingly position themselves as holistic financial solution 
providers, the industry will play a key role in India’s socio-economic 
development by offering risk protection, long-term savings, and 
capital mobilisation for infrastructure and nation-building.
Source: CARE edge
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/banking/finance/insure/
life-insurers-record-marginal-5-rise-in-new-premium-collection-in-
fy25/articleshow/120560097.cms?from=mdr
Business Review
The Company operates under a specialised and resilient 
business model that is primarily centred on gold loans, while 
also diversifying into a range of financial services, including 
microfinance, vehicle and equipment financing, affordable housing 
loans, and small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) lending. 
The core focus on gold loans is grounded in a high-velocity, 
low-ticket model that capitalises on India’s substantial household 
gold reserves. By providing short-term loans against gold 
jewellery, the Company effectively addresses the immediate 
liquidity needs of customers, particularly in semi-urban and rural 
areas where access to formal credit is limited. This model thrives 
on high asset turnover and collateralised lending, ensuring 
security, while the short loan tenures serve to mitigate credit risk.
A distinctive feature of the Company’s offerings is its extensive 
branch network, boasting over 4,100 locations across 25 Indian 
states, thereby ensuring significant reach into underserved 
markets. Such deep penetration, especially in Tier 2 and 
Tier 3 cities, strategically positions the Company for success. 
Furthermore, another key differentiator is its swift service; gold 
loans are approved within minutes, facilitated by standardised 
appraisal processes and real-time credit evaluations. 
The decentralised operational model empowers local branches 
with autonomy within defined policy frameworks, promoting 
both agility and responsiveness.
In addition, the Company’s strong brand equity, cultivated over 
decades, establishes a foundation of trust among customers, 
an essential asset in the gold loan industry, where emotional 
and cultural ties to collateral are profound. The Company’s 
proactive approach to technology adoption further reinforces 
its business model and competitive advantage. Through the 
development of digital capabilities, customers are afforded the 
convenience of applying for and managing gold loans via mobile 
and online platforms. This includes the innovative “Online Gold 
Loan” product, which allows for disbursements without requiring 
branch visits. The digital interface is seamlessly integrated with 
real-time customer KYC processes, repayment schedules, 
and repledging options, thereby enhancing both convenience 
and efficiency.
Business Performance in the Financial Year 2024-25
The Company has experienced significant growth in both 
business volume and profitability, positioning itself well for 
sustained success. The consolidated Assets under Management 
(AUM) grew by 2.3% YoY to ` 43,034 crore in the financial year 
2024-25 from ` 42,070 crore reported in the previous fiscal year. 
Operating income stood at ` 10,041 crore in the financial year 
2024-25, marking an increase of 13.5% compared to ` 8,848 crore 
in the financial year 2023-24. Primarily due to a sharp increase 
in provision of doubtful debts to ` 1,963 crore as compared to 
` 578 crore in the previous year, Consolidated PAT (before OCI 
and Minority Interest) reduced to ` 1,204 crore, a reduction by 
45.2%, compared to ` 2,197 crore in the preceding year. 
The Company reported a consolidated return on equity (ROE) of 
10.0% and return on assets (ROA) of 2.5%.
The Company’s gold loan business constituted 59.5% of the 
consolidated AUM, and the remaining 40.5% comprised non-gold 
businesses such as microfinance, vehicle, housing, and SME 
finance. Gold loan AUM increased by 18.7% YoY to ` 25,586 crore 
as against ` 21,561 crore in the previous year.
As of March 31, 2025, the number of active gold loan customers 
stood at 2.58 Million. With an average ticket size of ` 67,800, 
the Company’s gold loan portfolio is extremely resistant to 
gold price fluctuations. Gold Loan LTV stood at 57% as on 
March 31, 2025. The Company’s gold holdings stood at 
56.4 tonnes as on March 31, 2025 compared to 58.8 tonnes at 
the end of the previous year. The online gold loan (OGL) book 
represented 82% of the overall gold loan. 
The Company’s Vehicle and Equipment Finance division closed 
the year with an AUM of ` 4,773 crore compared to ` 4,111 crore 
at the end of the previous year, reflecting 16.1% YoY growth. 
The Company’s microfinance (MFI) subsidiary, Asirvad Micro 
Finance Limited (AMFL), recorded a turnover of ` 27,054 Million 
during the financial year ended March 31, 2025, as compared to 
` 26,813 Million in the previous financial year ended March 31, 
2024 – representing a 0.90% year-on-year growth in revenue 
from operations. However, the company reported a net loss 
of ` 6,387.17 Million for FY 2024-25, as against a net profit of 
`4,583 Million in FY 2023-24. The loss before tax for the financial 
year reflected a decline of 230.46% over the corresponding 
period of the previous year.
CRISIL reaffirmed its rating of AMFL at ‘AA-minus stable’, 
underscoring the company’s sound fundamentals and liquidity 
profile, despite near-term profitability challenges.
While the microfinance industry remains inherently cyclical, 
influenced by socio-economic dynamics and external 
disruptions, the regulatory environment has continued to 
be supportive – providing stability through guidelines aimed 
at responsible lending, customer protection, and pricing 
standardisation. Encouragingly, greenshoots are now apparent, 
with improving collection efficiencies, rural demand recovery, 
and enhanced borrower engagement indicating the early signs 
of a sectoral rebound.
In line with its broader financial inclusion agenda, AMFL has 
also expanded its product suite to include gold loans, further 
diversifying its offerings and enhancing secured lending access 
for underserved women borrowers.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
60
Regulatory Action and Resolution Status of Asirvad Micro 
Finance Limited: On October 17, 2024, the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI), under Section 45L(1)(b) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, 
imposed supervisory restrictions on Asirvad Micro Finance Limited, 
a subsidiary company, based on certain concerns observed during 
an onsite inspection with reference to the financial position as of 
March 31, 2024. Consequently, the RBI directed the subsidiary 
company to cease and desist from sanctioning or disbursing new 
loans, effective from October 21, 2024. However, the company 
was permitted to continue servicing its existing customers and to 
carry out collection and recovery processes in accordance with 
the applicable regulatory guidelines.
The Board of Directors of the subsidiary company thoroughly 
reviewed the implications of these directions and constituted 
a team to implement corrective actions and revise policies and 
procedures as necessary. The management of the subsidiary 
company remains confident that these measures will address and 
resolve all issues raised by the RBI. The company is committed to 
upholding the highest standards of regulatory compliance, both 
in letter and in spirit.
The Group has conducted a thorough assessment of its 
going concern status and does not anticipate any challenges. 
Specifically:
1.	
The subsidiary company has adequate funds to support its 
operational expenses and meet its repayment obligations 
for the next twelve (12) months.
2.	
Cost Control: The company has identified and is in the 
process of implementing cost-control measures, including 
the reduction of major discretionary expenditures.
These actions are expected to ensure that the subsidiary 
company’s projected cash flows over the next twelve (12) months 
will be sufficient to meet its financial obligations, maintain robust 
capital adequacy, and gradually restore financial resilience.
The Group is confident of resolving all issues raised by the RBI 
and has prepared the financial results of the subsidiary company 
on a going concern basis. The business restrictions imposed by 
the RBI vide its order dated October 17, 2024, on Asirvad Micro 
Finance Limited were lifted by the RBI vide its order dated 
January 08, 2025.
The Company’s home finance subsidiary, Manappuram Home 
Finance Limited, recorded an AUM of ` 1,824 crore at the end 
of the financial year 2024-25, a growth of 20.79% as against 
` 1,510 crore at the end of the previous fiscal. The total borrowing 
of the Company on a consolidated basis was a ` 35,404 crore 
at the end of the financial year 2024-25. On the liquidity front, 
the Company has not encountered any obstacles in securing 
funds for growth. It anticipates no hurdles in funding its plans 
and remains well-positioned with its strong ALM and access to 
diversified sources of funds. The Company recorded financial 
expenses of ` 3,575 crore in the financial year 2024-25 and 
closing AUM increased by 2.3% YoY. Employee expenses 
increased to ` 1,842 crore in the financial year 2024-25 from 
` 1,597 crore in the previous year. The Company has implemented 
several cost rationalisation measures. Additionally, there is 
substantial operating expense leverage as the Company’s new 
branches mature.
The Company’s consolidated net worth increased to ` 12,432 
crore in the financial year 2024-25 from ` 11,548 crore the 
previous year. The book value per share stood at ` 146.9. 
Consolidated earnings per share (EPS) for the year stood 
at ` 14.2, while the capital adequacy ratio (standalone) was 
maintained at 31%. The Company’s gross non-performing assets 
(GNPA) was 2.8% and the net NPA position of the standalone 
entity stood at 2.5%. The Company’s total number of consolidated 
live customers in the financial year 2024-25 stood at 5.44 Million 
compared to 6.77 Million in the financial year 2023-24.
Credit Rating
The credit rating details of the Company as of March 31, 2025 were as follows:
Credit 
Rating Agency
Type of facility
 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
` in crore
Rating
` in crore
Rating
CRISIL
Bank Loan 
Facility Long Term
7,585
CRISIL AA/Stable
6,995.00
CRISIL AA/Stable
 
Bank Loan Facility 
Short Term
4,415
CRISIL A1+
2,505.00
CRISIL A1+
 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures
4,064.77
CRISIL AA/Stable
4,522.80
CRISIL AA/Stable
 
Commercial Paper
4,000
CRISIL A1+
4,000.00
CRISIL A1+
CARE
Bank Loan 
Facility Long Term
9,490
CARE AA Stable
8,605.00
CARE AA Stable
 
Bank Loan Facility 
Short Term
5,510
CARE A1+
5,395.00
CARE A1+
 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures
1,360.25
CARE AA Stable
1,610.25
CARE AA Stable
 
Commercial Paper
4,000.00
CARE A1+
4,000.00
CARE A1+
Brickwork
Non-Convertible 
Debentures
790.37
BWR AA (Stable)
950.62
BWR AA (Stable)
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
61
International Credit Rating
Credit 
Rating Agency
Type of facility
 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
` in crore
Rating
` in crore
Rating
S&P
Senior Secured Notes
2,506.05
BB-/Stable
0
 
FITCH
Senior Secured Notes
2,506.05
BB-/Stable
0
 
Asset Quality
The Company has strong credit underwriting, data-driven early 
warning systems, and tech-enabled collections. Additionally, 
Portfolio diversification and forward-looking provisioning further 
enhance resilience against delinquencies. Gross NPA stood at 2.8% 
in the financial year 2024-25 compared to 1.9% in the financial 
year 2023-24, while net NPA stood at 2.5% in the financial year 
2024-25 as against 1.7% in the financial year 2023-24.
Digital Transformation
The Company has established itself as a leader in the digital 
transformation of India’s non-banking financial sector, 
implementing a meticulous strategy that emphasises innovation, 
differentiation, and execution. By adopting core banking systems 
at an early stage, the Company has facilitated real-time 
connectivity across its branches, significantly streamlining the 
disbursement of gold loans while simultaneously enhancing risk 
management protocols.
In a pioneering move, the Company launched the Online Gold 
Loan (OGL) platform, which empowers customers to pledge gold 
and access funds remotely. This initiative has seen substantial 
uptake, particularly during the pandemic, where it accounted 
for nearly 70% of the Company’s gold loan business. To further 
bolster its digital outreach, the Company introduced the 
Ma-Money app, a comprehensive digital lending platform that 
offers a diverse range of loans – including personal, business, 
and sector-specific loans – targeting primarily customers in tier 
2 and tier 3 cities. 
The Company’s unwavering commitment to technological 
advancement is reflected in its integration of cutting-edge 
tools such as Robotic Process Automation (RPA), the Internet 
of Things (IoT), blockchain technology, and cloud computing. 
These innovations significantly enhance both operational 
efficiency and the overall customer experience.
Additionally, the Company’s transition to a paperless 
workflow management system underscores its commitment 
to sustainability and operational efficiency. By migrating its IT 
infrastructure to Oracle’s second-generation cloud, the Company 
anticipates considerable performance enhancements and cost 
reductions, allowing its IT team to focus on driving innovation and 
providing robust support for core business functions.
Collectively, these strategic initiatives reflect the Company’s 
dedication to leveraging technology for holistic growth, 
thereby ensuring improved customer service, ongoing 
employee development, and sustainable operational practices. 
Through these efforts, the Company is not only positioning itself 
as a trailblazer in the financial sector but also contributing to the 
overall evolution of digital financial services in India.
SWOT analysis
Strengths
Leadership Presence
The Company is a well-established leader in the gold loan 
segment, commanding strong brand recall and customer trust 
across India, particularly in southern states. Its longstanding 
experience, grassroots reach, and understanding of local markets 
offer an edge in informal lending ecosystems. Customers value 
its fast turnaround times and flexible structures, especially in 
emergency scenarios. This leadership enables the Company 
to retain pricing power, negotiate favourable funding, and 
stay resilient during sectoral disruptions. The combination of 
reputation, customer loyalty, and regional dominance forms a 
durable competitive advantage in a fragmented NBFC landscape.
Diversified Portfolio
Beyond gold loans, the Company has built a diversified portfolio 
that includes microfinance, affordable housing loans, vehicle 
finance, and SME lending. This diversification helps in risk 
dispersion, revenue stabilisation, and broader market capture. 
It enables the business to remain agile and responsive to sectoral 
trends and economic shifts. Cross-sell synergies and integrated 
customer lifecycle management also improve operational 
leverage. The ability to cater to different credit profiles – rural 
borrowers, self-employed professionals, and small business 
owners – positions the Company as a one-stop solution for 
financial needs in underserved markets.
Robust Capital Structure
The Company enjoys robust capital adequacy, which provides 
financial resilience, strategic flexibility, and stakeholder 
confidence. Its capital structure is managed conservatively, with 
adequate buffers to support growth, absorb losses, and meet 
regulatory requirements. Strong capitalisation also facilitates 
access to funding at competitive rates and allows the Company 
to underwrite higher-risk portfolios responsibly. This strength 
supports the pursuit of long-term objectives – expansion, 
digitisation, and product diversification – without compromising 
prudence. It’s particularly vital in volatile financial markets, were 
investor and lender confidence hinges on capital health.
Stable Asset-Liability Profile
Supported by the secured and short-term nature of gold loans, 
the Company maintains a naturally self-liquidating portfolio, 
reducing the risk of asset-liability mismatches. Its lending and 
borrowing maturities are well-aligned, and liquidity management 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
62
is proactive, with healthy coverage ratios and buffer reserves. 
The business model inherently reduces rollover risk and 
dependence on volatile market instruments. During periods 
of tight liquidity or rising interest rates, this stability protects 
profitability and operational continuity. The Company also 
monitors stress scenarios and interest rate exposures to preserve 
balance sheet strength.
Technology-Driven Operations
Digitalisation plays a pivotal role in the Company’s operational 
efficiency and customer experience. From paperless onboarding 
to AI-driven risk analytics and mobile apps for servicing, the 
Company has embraced technology at scale. It enables faster 
disbursals, real-time monitoring, and superior customer insights. 
Automation in underwriting and collections reduces human error 
and operational cost. Cloud adoption and centralised systems 
also offer scalability and flexibility. In an increasingly tech-centric 
lending landscape, this investment in digital capabilities positions 
the Company to compete effectively and adapt to evolving 
customer expectations.
Extensive Physical Network
With thousands of branches spread across India, particularly 
in Tier II and Tier III cities, the Company has built a formidable 
physical distribution network. This presence is key to accessing 
the rural and semi-urban customer base that lacks formal 
banking access. The network supports not just acquisition 
but also ongoing service delivery, collections, and customer 
engagement. It enhances the Company’s ability to grow deeper 
into underserved geographies. Additionally, it enables the 
Company to combine the strengths of digital innovation with 
on-ground relationships, offering a true phygital model.
Weaknesses and Mitigating Strategies
1.	
Limited Market Share in the Broader Lending Space
	
While Manappuram Finance Limited maintains a dominant 
position in the gold loan segment, its market share 
across other lending verticals – such as housing finance, 
MSME lending, and unsecured personal loans – remains 
comparatively modest. The Company faces strong 
competition from banks, large non-banking financial 
companies (NBFCs), and fintech players in these categories, 
which poses challenges in achieving meaningful scale and 
portfolio diversification.
	
Mitigating-Strategy:
	
The Company has adopted a strategic diversification 
roadmap, expanding its presence in allied segments and 
other business verticals like vehicle finance, MSME & 
personal loan business, Forex & money transfer and also 
through its subsidiaries and business verticals such as 
Asirvad Microfinance, Manappuram Home Finance, and 
vehicle finance.   Investments in digital underwriting, data 
analytics, and risk-based pricing models are enabling 
prudent expansion into newer geographies and customer 
profiles. Targeted brand-building initiatives and focussed 
product innovation are underway to position the Company 
competitively in non-gold lending categories. These efforts 
are expected to progressively de-risk the portfolio and 
create sustainable revenue streams beyond the core gold 
loan business.
2.	
Elevated Operating Cost Structure
	
The Company’s branch-intensive model, combined with 
substantial regulatory compliance, security requirements, 
and localised customer service operations, results in 
a relatively high cost-to-income ratio compared to 
digital-native peers. This structural cost pressure can 
impact profitability, especially in periods of interest rate 
volatility or muted credit demand.
	
Mitigating-Strategy:
	
Manappuram has initiated a company-wide operational 
efficiency programme aimed at optimising cost structures 
while maintaining service quality. Key initiatives include 
automation of back-office processes, digitisation of 
customer interfaces, deployment of centralised loan 
processing systems including online gold loan system, 
and selective rationalisation of physical infrastructure. 
Emphasis is being placed on leveraging technology to 
reduce turnaround times, minimise manual interventions, 
and improve staff productivity. Over the medium term, these 
measures are expected to enhance operational efficiency 
and strengthen the Company’s ability to scale new business 
lines without proportionate increases in overhead.
3.	
Inability to Accept Public Deposits
	
As a non-deposit-taking NBFC, the Company is restricted 
from mobilising retail public deposits. This limits access to 
long-tenure, low-cost funding and increases dependence 
on market instruments, bank borrowings, and institutional 
financing. Such dependency can lead to funding cost 
fluctuations during periods of sectoral stress or tightening 
liquidity.
	
Mitigating-Strategy:
	
The Company maintains a well-diversified borrowing 
mix, drawing from banks, mutual funds, debt markets 
through non-convertible debt instruments, securitisation 
transactions, and external commercial borrowings. 
Proactive treasury management and strong institutional 
relationships have enabled access to competitively priced 
capital. In addition, Manappuram follows a conservative 
asset-liability management (ALM) framework, ensuring 
liquidity buffers and timely refinancing of obligations. 
While regulatory restrictions on deposit-taking remain 
unchanged, the Company continues to explore innovative 
funding structures to ensure financial flexibility and 
resilience under varying market conditions.
	
The Company remains focussed on proactively addressing 
these structural challenges through strategic investments, 
disciplined execution, and a forward-looking risk management 
approach. These measures are integral to strengthening 
its competitive positioning and ensuring long-term value 
creation for all stakeholders.
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
63
Opportunities
Favourable Interest Rate Cycle
Softening interest rates or accommodative monetary policy 
cycles can significantly benefit the Company by lowering its 
cost of borrowing. As a lender heavily reliant on wholesale 
funding, cheaper credit enhances profitability and supports 
lending at competitive rates. Lower interest rates also increase 
loan demand across microfinance, housing, and SME segments. 
By actively managing its liability profile during rate easing, the 
Company can widen spreads and expand into newer products 
while maintaining risk-adjusted returns. This macroeconomic 
tailwind creates a conducive environment for business growth 
and margin improvement.
Deeper Penetration into the Unorganised Sector
A significant portion of India’s credit demand remains unserved 
or underserved by formal institutions. The unorganised 
sector, particularly in rural and semi-urban India, offers a vast 
opportunity for expansion. The Company’s grassroots presence, 
operational expertise, and ability to underwrite unconventional 
borrowers place it in a strong position to deepen market 
penetration. By leveraging alternate data, relationship-driven 
selling, and localised product designs, it can extend financial 
access to self-employed individuals, small traders, and informal 
workers. This expansion aligns with national financial inclusion 
priorities and strengthens long-term customer loyalty.
Supportive Government Initiatives
Government schemes such as PMMY (Pradhan Mantri Mudra 
Yojana), rural housing subsidies, and regulatory encouragement 
for NBFC participation in priority sector lending offer growth 
opportunities. Policies that promote financial inclusion, 
digitisation of credit, and infrastructure development improve 
borrower visibility and creditworthiness, especially in rural areas. 
Public-sector bank outreach limitations also create space for 
agile NBFCs to step in. By aligning with these initiatives, the 
Company can co-lend, access refinance support, and expand 
product offerings under regulatory tailwinds, contributing to 
inclusive growth while building stable portfolios.
Emergence of New Technologies
Digital transformation across lending, collections, and risk 
analytics presents immense opportunities for operational 
efficiency and customer reach. Technologies like AI/ML for 
credit scoring, blockchain for collateral tracking, and digital 
identity tools reduce costs, improve accuracy, and mitigate fraud. 
The Company can use mobile-first platforms and automation 
to scale efficiently in remote regions while offering a seamless 
borrower experience. Tech-driven underwriting can also unlock 
credit to thin-file or informal customers. Early adoption of such 
innovations can position the Company as a forward-looking 
player in an increasingly digital lending ecosystem.
Threats
Intense Competition Across Segments
The lending landscape is increasingly crowded, with banks, large 
NBFCs, fintechs, and even peer-to-peer platforms targeting 
the same customer base. Gold loans, once niche, now attract 
competition from aggressive fintechs and regional banks offering 
low rates and digital disbursement. In other segments like housing 
or MSME, incumbents have scale and branding advantages. 
This intense competition could lead to margin compression, higher 
acquisition costs, and portfolio cannibalisation. Sustaining growth 
while protecting asset quality and pricing power will require 
continuous innovation and deep customer engagement.
Customer Retention and Employee Attrition Risks
As competition intensifies, retaining both customers and 
skilled personnel is increasingly difficult. Borrowers have 
more choices and may switch to digital or lower-cost options. 
Meanwhile, trained employees with field experience and credit 
know-how are highly sought after by competitors. High attrition 
raises the costs of hiring and training, affects service quality, 
and risks data leakage. Retention strategies, including incentive 
structures, training, and career planning, are essential to 
maintain continuity. Strengthening customer loyalty through 
service excellence and personalisation can help mitigate churn 
and maintain stable revenues.
Operational Risks and Internal Control Gaps
Operating across thousands of decentralised locations 
increases exposure to fraud, process lapses, and human errors. 
Risks include cash mismanagement, collateral mishandling, 
IT system failures, and data breaches. Any failure in control 
mechanisms can result in financial loss, reputational damage, 
or regulatory penalties. While the Company has strong internal 
audit and compliance frameworks, continuous vigilance is 
required to address evolving threats. Cybersecurity risks are also 
growing with increased digitisation. Investing in robust internal 
systems, employee training, and incident response mechanisms 
is critical to minimising operational vulnerabilities.
Macroeconomic Volatility and External Shocks
NBFCs are sensitive to broader economic trends, such as inflation, 
unemployment, and rural income shocks. Slowdowns can 
reduce credit demand, impair borrower repayment capacity, 
and strain asset quality. For the Company, the customer base 
includes informal workers and micro-entrepreneurs; these 
effects can be pronounced. External shocks like pandemics, 
geopolitical events, or commodity fluctuations may disrupt 
liquidity, funding, or customer behaviour. Interest rate 
volatility also affects borrowing costs and portfolio yield. 
Maintaining financial flexibility, conservative provisioning, and 
strong asset-liability management is essential to navigate such 
uncertainties.
Financial Review
The following table illustrates the standalone and consolidated 
financials of the Company for the financial year 2024-25, 
including revenues, expenses, and profits.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
64
Consolidated Results at a Glance (in ` crore)
Particulars
Financial 
Year 2021-22
Financial 
Year 2022-23
Financial 
Year 2023-24
Financial 
Year 2024-25
% growth
Income from operations
6,061
6,684
8,848
10,007
13.10%
Profit before tax
1,784
2,041
2,960
1,666
-43.72%
Profit after tax (after 
minority interest)
1,329
1,500
2,197
1,204
-45.22%
AUM
30,261
35,452
42,070
43,034
2.29%
Net Worth
8,368
9,645
11,548
12,432
7.66%
RoA (%)
4.08
4.10
5.10
2.5
-50.98%
RoE (%)
16.95
16.60
20.7
10.0
-51.69%
No. of branches
5,053
5,057
5,286
5,359
1.38%
Total No. of employees
41,396
48,369
51,004
51,647
1.26%
Standalone Results at a Glance (in ` crore)
Particulars
Financial 
Year 2022-23
Financial 
Year 2023-24
Financial 
Year 2024-25
% change
AUM
24,446
28,679
33,021 
15.14%
Gold loan AUM
19,041
20,656
24,658
19.37%
Gold Holding (Tonnes)
58.00
56.34
54.20
-3.80%
Live Gold Loan Customers (Million)
2.30
2.37
2.44
2.78%
Gold Loans Disbursed
1,293.14
1,190.84
1,452.90
22.01
Capital Adequacy Ratio
31.70
30.58
30.91%
1.08%
Cost of Fund
7.90
8.60
9.21%
7.09%
Gross NPA (%)
1.33
1.93
2.77
43.52%
Net NPA (%)
1.15
1.70
2.43
42.94%
Number of Branches
3,524
3,524
3,524
0%
CV Loans (AUM)
2,455
4,111
4,773
16.11%
Key Financial Ratios
Particulars
Financial Year 
2022-23
Financial Year 
2023-24
Financial Year 
2024-25
Return on Net Worth (%)
14.97
16.30
14.20
Basic EPS (after exceptional items)
14.96
19.59
21.07
Interest Coverage Ratio
2.14
2.22
2.00
Current Ratio
1.96
1.78
2.20
Debt Equity Ratio
2.14
2.17
2.29
Operating Profit Margin (%)
38.92
41.33
37.32
Net Profit Margin (%)
26.23
28.32
25.79
Risk Management
In the dynamic landscape of financial services, risk management 
stands as a cornerstone for the sustainability and growth of 
institutions. The Company, a prominent non-banking financial 
institution in India, operating within a highly regulated and 
competitive environment, the Company faces a multitude of risks 
that can impact its operations and profitability.
Effective risk mitigation involves a proactive approach to 
identifying potential exposures, evaluating their magnitude, 
setting risk tolerance limits, and deploying response plans. 
Through robust governance structures, stringent policies and 
procedures, and continuous monitoring and assessment, the 
Company effectively mitigates risks across various domains. 
By embedding risk management into its strategic and 
operational framework, the Company not only safeguards its 
assets and reputation but also builds resilience in a dynamic and 
competitive environment.
Credit Risk
Credit risk arises when borrowers fail to meet their contractual 
obligations, leading to potential losses for the lender. For the 
Company, this risk is inherent in its lending activities, particularly 
in unsecured segments like microfinance and SME loans.
To mitigate credit risk, the Company employs stringent 
underwriting norms tailored to each loan product. 
Credit evaluation tools include borrower profiling, financial 
history analysis, and risk categorisation. In secured lending, the 
value and liquidity of collateral are continuously monitored to 
ensure adequate coverage.
Management Discussion and Analysis
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
65
The Company also adopts a segmented portfolio approach to 
diversify exposure and avoid concentration risk. Automated loan 
processing systems and centralised decision-making hubs 
reduce human bias and ensure policy compliance. 
Early warning systems help identify delinquency patterns, 
enabling timely remedial measures such as restructuring or 
intensified collections.
Technology Risk
Technology risk refers to the potential for losses resulting from 
failures or deficiencies in the Company’s information technology 
systems. This includes risks related to system downtime, software 
errors, cybersecurity threats, data breaches, obsolescence of IT 
infrastructure, and dependency on third-party service providers. 
As the Company increasingly leverages digital platforms to 
deliver financial services, the reliability, security, and scalability 
of its technology systems become critical to business continuity 
and customer satisfaction.
The Company mitigates technology risk by maintaining a robust 
and scalable IT infrastructure supported by advanced hardware 
and software systems. IT governance is overseen by a dedicated 
team responsible for managing system performance, application 
security, vendor contracts, and technology upgrades.
Cybersecurity is a key area of focus. The Company enforces 
stringent security protocols, including firewalls, intrusion 
detection systems, data encryption, and multi-factor 
authentication. Regular vulnerability assessments, penetration 
testing, and threat intelligence monitoring are conducted to 
proactively identify and address risks.
To minimise operational disruptions, the Company has established 
comprehensive disaster recovery and business continuity plans, 
including data backup systems and alternate data centres. 
Regular simulation exercises and audits are conducted to test 
system resilience and readiness.
Additionally, employees undergo regular training in information 
security practices to prevent internal breaches and ensure 
adherence to best practices. The Company also monitors 
technological developments and emerging risks to update 
its IT strategy in line with evolving business needs and 
industry standards.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk pertains to the potential impact of fluctuations 
in market interest rates on the Company’s financial performance. 
Changes in interest rates can affect the net interest margin, the 
value of assets and liabilities, and the overall profitability.
The Company manages interest rate risk through a robust 
Asset-Liability Management (ALM) framework. This involves 
matching the maturities and repricing profiles of assets and 
liabilities to minimise mismatches. The ALM Committee regularly 
reviews interest rate scenarios and adjusts strategies accordingly.
Additionally, the Company utilises hedging instruments such as 
interest rate swaps and options to manage exposure to interest 
rate volatility. Stress testing and scenario analysis are conducted 
to assess the impact of extreme interest rate movements, 
allowing the Company to develop contingency plans.
Operational Risk
Operational risk encompasses losses from inadequate or 
failed internal processes, people, systems, or external events. 
This includes risks related to fraud, system failures, human 
errors, and natural disasters.
To address operational risk, the Company has invested in 
automation and digitisation to streamline processes and 
reduce manual errors. A dedicated internal audit team ensures 
adherence to policies and flags deviations for correction. 
Employees undergo regular training in operational protocols, 
fraud prevention, and customer service standards.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises when the Company is unable to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due, without incurring excessive 
costs. This risk can originate from mismatches in asset-liability 
tenures, unanticipated demand for funds, or constraints in 
accessing funding markets.
The Company maintains a diversified funding profile, tapping 
into both wholesale and retail sources, including banks, capital 
markets, and institutional investors. The treasury function plays 
a pivotal role in ensuring that short-term and long-term funding 
needs are forecasted accurately and addressed proactively.
A comprehensive liquidity risk management policy is in place, 
which includes maintaining liquidity buffers, daily monitoring of 
cash flow positions, and preparing contingency funding plans. 
The Asset-Liability Committee reviews liquidity indicators and 
recommends adjustments to investment or borrowing strategies.
Regulatory and Compliance Risk
Regulatory risk pertains to the possibility of facing penalties, 
restrictions, or operational setbacks due to non-compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations, or codes of conduct. With evolving 
regulatory expectations in the non-banking financial sector, the 
Company must ensure continuous alignment with legal and 
governance standards.
The Company has institutionalised a governance and 
compliance framework led by a dedicated compliance team. 
Policies and procedures are regularly updated to reflect changes 
in regulatory requirements. Real-time alerts, audit trails, and 
workflow approvals ensure that breaches are prevented or 
identified swiftly.
The Board of Directors and its committees maintain oversight 
on regulatory adherence, while independent auditors conduct 
regular compliance reviews. Awareness and training sessions 
are held across all levels to reinforce a culture of compliance.
Reputational Risk
Reputational risk is the risk of negative perception among 
stakeholders resulting from actual or alleged misconduct, 
governance failures, or poor customer experience. 
Reputational damage can lead to loss of customers, regulatory 
scrutiny, and funding challenges.
The Company maintains a strong code of ethics, customer 
service charter, and transparent communication policies to 
uphold its brand image. Any grievances or complaints are 
addressed promptly through established redressal mechanisms. 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
66
Feedback loops are built into customer-facing processes to 
ensure continuous service improvement.
Crisis communication protocols guide the Company’s response 
to reputational threats, enabling prompt and responsible 
disclosure of facts. The public relations function works closely 
with leadership to manage media relations and stakeholder 
communication.
Competition Risk
Competition risk involves the potential for loss arising from 
ineffective business strategies, flawed execution, or failure to 
respond to industry trends. Diversification into new geographies 
or financial products without adequate preparation can expose 
the Company to unforeseen challenges.
The Company employs a structured approach to 
strategy formulation, involving comprehensive market 
research, risk-return assessments, and scenario planning. 
Strategic initiatives are vetted by the executive team and 
approved by the Board, ensuring alignment with long-term 
vision and risk appetite.
Key performance indicators and milestone tracking tools help 
in monitoring execution and taking corrective action where 
necessary. Risk reviews are integrated into business planning 
cycles, allowing strategy to be revisited based on market 
feedback or macroeconomic changes.
Asset/Security Risk
Asset or security risk pertains to the potential devaluation of 
collateral assets, which can affect the recoverability of loans. 
For the Company, this is particularly relevant in gold loans and 
other secured lending products.
The Company mitigates asset risk by maintaining conservative 
loan-to-value ratios and performing regular valuations of 
collateral assets. In the case of gold loans, the value and purity 
of the gold are assessed at the time of loan disbursement and 
monitored throughout the loan tenure.
Additionally, the Company employs stress testing to assess 
the impact of adverse market conditions on collateral values. 
This enables the Company to take proactive measures, such as 
adjusting loan terms or seeking additional collateral, to mitigate 
potential losses.
Human Capital Risk
Human capital risk involves the potential loss arising from 
inadequate or ineffective human resource management. 
This includes risks related to talent acquisition, retention, 
employee engagement, and succession planning.
Succession planning is an integral part of the Company’s human 
resource strategy, ensuring continuity in leadership and critical 
roles. Performance management systems are in place to align 
individual goals with organisational objectives and to identify 
and address performance gaps.
Economic Risk
Economic risk encompasses the potential impact of 
macroeconomic factors such as inflation, interest rates, GDP 
growth, and unemployment on the Company’s operations 
and profitability.
The Company monitors key economic indicators and 
incorporates economic forecasts into its strategic planning 
and risk management processes. Scenario analysis and stress 
testing are conducted to assess the potential impact of adverse 
economic conditions on the Company’s financial position.
Diversification of the loan portfolio across sectors and 
geographies helps to mitigate the impact of localised economic 
downturns. Additionally, the Company maintains adequate capital 
buffers and liquidity reserves to withstand economic shocks.
Human Resource Management
Internal Control 
The Company has established a robust internal control framework 
to ensure operational efficiency, regulatory compliance, and risk 
mitigation across its financial services operations. These controls 
cover key functions such as credit underwriting, disbursement, 
collections, finance, compliance, and IT. A clear organisational 
structure with defined responsibilities, system-based checks, and 
documented policies supports accountability and transparency. 
Internal controls are embedded within core processes through 
maker-checker mechanisms, approval hierarchies, and 
automated validations to minimise manual errors and prevent 
unauthorised activities. The internal audit function operates 
independently and reports to the Audit Committee of the Board. 
It conducts regular, risk-based audits across branches and 
departments to assess control effectiveness, identify gaps, and 
recommend improvements. Corrective actions are monitored to 
ensure timely closure. The Company emphasises internal control 
over financial reporting to ensure the accuracy and reliability 
of financial disclosures. Technological tools and dashboards 
enable real-time monitoring of key metrics and deviations. 
Employees are trained periodically on control procedures and 
compliance expectations to foster a culture of responsibility. 
As the business grows and adopts digital solutions, the internal 
control framework is continuously strengthened to align with 
evolving risks. Overall, the Company’s internal control systems 
are adequate, proactive, and integral to maintaining operational 
integrity and stakeholder confidence.
Cautionary Statement 
Certain statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis 
describing the Company’s objectives, predictions may be 
‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of applicable 
laws and regulations. Actual results may vary significantly from 
the forward-looking statements contained in this document due 
to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties 
include the effect of economic and political conditions in India, 
volatility in interest rates, new regulations and Government 
policies that may impact the Company’s business as well as 
its ability to implement the strategy. The Company does not 
undertake to update these statements.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
67
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details of the listed entity
1: 	 Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L65910KL1992PLC006623
2: 	 Name of the Listed Entity
Manappuram Finance Limited
3: 	 Date of Incorporation
15-07-1992
4: 	 Registered office address
W-4/638A, Manappuram House, Valapad - 680567, Thrissur, Kerala
5: 	 Corporate address
Registered Office/Corporate Office: W-4/638A, Manappuram 
House Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680567  
Landline: 0487 3050000, 3050108, 3050100  
Corporate office Annexe: A-Wing, 3rd Floor, Unit No 301 To 315 
Kanakia Wall Street, Andheri Kurla Road, Andheri East, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra -400093  
Landline: 022 68194000
6: 	 E-mail
mail@manappuram.com
7: 	 Telephone
04873050000
8: 	 Website
www.manappuram.com
9: 	 Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-2025
10: Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11: Paid-up Capital
` 169.29 Crore
12: Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Manoj Kumar V R, Company secretary & Compliance Officer Contact 
- 0487-3050408 Email - cs@manappuram.com
13: Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together).
The disclosures are made on a standalone basis
14:	Whether the company has undertaken assessment or 
assurance of the BRSR Core?
No
15: Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable.
16: Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable.
II: 	 Products/services
17: 	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S.No.
Description of 
Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of 
the entity
1
Financial 
services
Manappuram Finance Limited is a retail financial services provider and 
engages in activities such as providing Loans against gold jewellery, Loans 
against property, Loans for purchase of commercial vehicles, Loans to 
MSMEs and other complementary lending activities.
99.36%
18: 	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entitys Turnover):
S.No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Financial services
64990
99.36%
III. 	 Operations
19: 	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
0
3524
3524
International
0
0
0
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
68
20: 	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a. 	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
23
International (No. of Countries)
0
	
	
Note: - Manappuram Finance Limited has offices in 23 States and 6 Union Territories across India.
	
b. 	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
0%
	
c. 	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
Manappuram Finance Limited serves a diverse customer base across multiple economic segments, enabling inclusive 
financial access. The key customer categories include:
	
	
1.	
Individuals: This segment includes salaried employees, self-employed professionals, and individuals holding gold 
jewellery, seeking quick and convenient financing options for personal and family needs.
	
	
2.	
Businesses and Corporates: This segment comprises small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), large corporate 
entities, and service-based institutions in sectors such as education and healthcare. Financial solutions provided to 
this segment are designed to address needs related to working capital, term financing, and business expansion.
	
	
3.	
Micro and Small-Scale Enterprises (MSME): This segment comprises micro and small-scale entrepreneurs engaged 
in trading and manufacturing activities.
	
	
By segmenting its customer base in this manner, Manappuram Finance Limited aligns its financial products with the unique 
needs of each group, thereby advancing financial inclusion, supporting underserved communities, and contributing to 
broader socio-economic growth in line with its sustainability objectives.
IV. 	 Employees
21: 	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
	
a. 	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No. (C )
%(C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
24650
18072
73.31%
6578
26.69%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
8196
5818
70.99%
2378
29.01%
3
Total employees (D + E)
32846
23890
72.73%
8956
27.27%
WORKERS
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
5
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
6
Total workers (F + G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
69
	
b. 	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No. ( c)
%(C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
0
0
0%
0
0%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0%
0
0%
3
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
0
0
0%
0
0%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0%
0
0%
5
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
6
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
22: 	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No.(B)
%(B/A)
Board of Directors
10
3
30%
Key Management Personnel
4
2
50%
23: 	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY- 2025
FY- 2024
FY-2023
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
34.82%
5.91%
40.73%
35.95%
6.22%
42.17%
43.87%
7.40%
51.27%
Permanent 
Workers
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
V. 	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
24. 	 (a) 	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S.No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate 
in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/
No)
1
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Subsidiary
100%
Yes
2
Asirvad Microfinance Limited
Subsidiary
97.61%
Yes
3
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
Subsidiary
100%
Yes
4
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants 
Limited
Subsidiary
99.81%
Yes
VI. 	 CSR Details
25. 	 (i) 	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes.
25. 	 (ii) 	
Turnover (in `)
	
	
` 6,914.47 Crore
25. 	 (iii) 	 Net worth (in `)
	
	
` 11,792.83 Crore
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
70
VII. 	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
26: 	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No) (If 
Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress 
policy)
FY- 2025
FY- 2024
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes
5
1
The 
unresolved 
complaint 
was received 
on 26th 
March2025 
and 
resolved on 
04.04.2025.
0
0
-
Shareholders
Yes
4
0
-
0
0
-
Employees 
and workers
-
438
16
Pending 
cases 
Resolved in 
April 2025
2375
56
Pending 
cases 
Resolved in 
April 2024 -
Customers
Yes
14826
356
Pending 
cases 
Resolved in 
April 2025
8047
55
Pending 
cases 
Resolved in 
April 2024
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other (please 
specify)
No
0
0
-
0
0
-
	
Note: The Grievance redressal policies are available on our website - https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
27: 	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
71
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
1
Employee Well 
being
Opportunity
Manappuram Finance Limited recognises employee well-
being as a strategic opportunity to foster a productive, 
engaged, and resilient workforce. The company offers a 
structured onboarding and continuous learning ecosystem 
through its e-learning platform, MADU, complemented by 
online and offline interventions. Learning and development 
needs are employee-driven and supported by senior 
management, ensuring alignment with functional, behavioral, 
and organisational goals.
In addition to skill-building, the company promotes higher 
education by supporting employees’ enrolment in premier 
institutions, both in India and abroad. Employee wellness 
is further enhanced through regular yoga sessions, stress 
management initiatives, and a range of welfare programs such 
as marriage assistance, children’s educational support, and 
subsidised health schemes. Active employee engagement is 
encouraged via socio-development initiatives, including clubs 
like the women’s club.
By embedding well-being into its culture, the company not 
only improves employee satisfaction and retention but also 
strengthens its long-term organisational capability.
NA
Positive
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
72
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
2
Customer 
Support and 
Satisfaction
Risk
In the Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) sector, 
customer support and satisfaction are critical to ensuring 
business continuity, brand trust, and long-term growth. 
A decline in service quality or responsiveness can erode 
customer confidence, reduce retention rates, and result in 
reputational damage. Furthermore, unresolved grievances or 
poor customer experiences may attract regulatory scrutiny, 
especially in a sector that deals with financially vulnerable 
populations.
Given the highly competitive nature of the financial services 
industry, failure to meet evolving customer expectations 
poses a significant operational and strategic risk. Ensuring 
consistent, 
transparent, 
and 
empathetic 
customer 
engagement is therefore essential to maintaining trust, 
fulfilling compliance obligations, and sustaining profitability.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a proactive and 
customer-centric approach to mitigate risks related 
to customer support and satisfaction. Employees are 
equipped with comprehensive training to understand 
customer needs and deliver consistent, high-quality 
service across all touchpoints.
The company has established a robust Customer 
Grievance Redressal Policy that ensures fair, transparent, 
and timely resolution of customer complaints. It provides 
customers with clear turnaround timelines (TATs) and 
access to alternative redressal channels, including 
an Internal Ombudsman, to handle escalated cases 
impartially.
Through its Fair Practice Code, the company ensures 
customers 
are 
well-informed 
about 
key 
service 
elements such as fees, charges, processing timelines, 
loan procedures, and application outcomes. Additional 
policies, including the Auction Policy and Interest Rate 
Policy, offer clarity on interest rates and repossession 
procedures, thereby promoting trust and reducing the 
risk of disputes.
To enhance transparency and accessibility, detailed 
product and service information is published on the 
company’s website. Digital tools and mobile applications 
are also provided to help customers assess eligibility and 
understand loan terms.
Repossession and auction processes are conducted in a 
fair and transparent manner, with prior communication 
to customers to avoid distress and foster responsible 
recovery practices.
Negative
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
73
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
3
Financial 
Inclusion
Opportunity
Financial inclusion presents a significant opportunity for Non-
Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), to enhance access to 
formal financial services among underserved and unbanked 
populations. By addressing credit gaps and promoting 
financial literacy, NBFCs can contribute meaningfully to 
inclusive economic growth and social upliftment.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a strategically localised 
approach to deliver financial products and services across 
urban, semi-urban, and rural geographies. Its core objective 
is to reach unbanked households and first-time borrowers, 
thereby facilitating access to credit, encouraging savings, and 
improving financial resilience.
Through this inclusive approach, the company not only 
expands its customer base and market penetration but 
also positions itself as a key enabler of national financial 
empowerment and economic development.
NA
Positive
4
Responsible 
Financing
Opportunity
Responsible financing is a strategic opportunity for Non-
Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) to foster financial 
inclusion while ensuring long-term financial stability and 
customer protection. For Manappuram Finance Limted, 
adopting responsible lending practices enhances borrower 
trust, mitigates credit risks, and strengthens the company’s 
reputation within the financial ecosystem. It plays a pivotal 
role in reducing default rates and supporting the sustainable 
growth of the company’s lending portfolio.
By embedding principles of transparency, due diligence, 
ethical lending, and regulatory compliance into its financing 
operations, the company aligns its business model with 
responsible financial stewardship. This approach not only 
supports the financial well-being of its customers but also 
attracts investor confidence and contributes to the broader 
economic development of the country.
The company’s strong policy framework and risk management 
practices reflect its commitment to responsible financing, 
ensuring accountability, fair treatment of borrowers, and 
long-term value creation for stakeholders.
NA
Positive
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
74
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
5
Customer over 
indebtedness
Risk
Customer over-indebtedness is a material risk in the financial 
services sector, particularly for Non-Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFCs) serving low- and middle-income 
segments. Excessive borrowing without adequate repayment 
capacity can lead to financial distress for customers, higher 
default rates for lenders, and reputational or regulatory 
consequences for the institution.
Manappuram Finance Limited proactively addresses this risk 
by implementing rigorous credit assessments across its non-
gold lending verticals. This includes evaluating household 
income, existing liabilities, and repayment capacity before 
loan disbursement. By doing so, the company mitigates the 
risk of customer over-indebtedness, reduces dependency on 
informal credit channels, and upholds responsible lending 
practices.
This approach not only protects customer financial well-
being but also safeguards the company’s asset quality and 
long-term sustainability.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a multi-layered 
approach to mitigate the risk of customer over-
indebtedness, with a strong focus on responsible 
lending and financial inclusion. The company enforces 
stringent loan eligibility criteria, taking into account the 
applicant’s income, existing debt obligations, and overall 
creditworthiness to ensure that loan disbursements are 
well within the borrower’s repayment capacity.
Comprehensive borrower assessments are conducted to 
align loan amounts with actual financial stability, thereby 
reducing the likelihood of debt distress. In addition, robust 
monitoring systems are in place to track repayment 
behavior and identify early warning signals of potential 
over-indebtedness, enabling timely intervention.
To further support financial resilience among its 
customers, the company has implemented targeted 
financial literacy programs. These initiatives aim to 
educate borrowers on budgeting, debt management, and 
the importance of maintaining healthy financial habits, 
thereby empowering them to make informed borrowing 
decisions.
Negative
6
Diversity and 
Inclusion
Opportunity
Diversity and inclusion (D&I) represent a strategic opportunity 
for Manappuram Finance Limited to cultivate an equitable and 
resilient workforce while enhancing its corporate reputation 
and social impact. A high level of workplace diversity fosters 
a culture of fairness, employee belonging, and innovation, 
key drivers of long-term organisational success.
The company is committed to providing equal opportunities, 
particularly for women and other underrepresented groups, 
by ensuring fair representation across roles and offering 
career advancement pathways on par with male counterparts. 
The company has implemented targeted policies that 
address the specific needs of women employees, including 
flexible work arrangements and safe workplace provisions.
To strengthen its inclusive culture, the company conducts 
regular diversity training and awareness programs while 
embedding fairness and transparency into its performance 
evaluation and promotion systems. It also tracks and reports 
D&I metrics, reinforcing accountability and driving continuous 
improvement.
NA
Positive
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
75
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
7
Corporate 
Governance
Risk
Corporate governance is a critical risk area that influences 
stakeholder trust, regulatory compliance, and long-
term business sustainability. Companies are increasingly 
assessed on governance parameters such as ownership 
structure, board independence and remuneration, accounting 
transparency, ethical business conduct, and tax responsibility. 
Weak governance practices can lead to regulatory penalties, 
investor distrust, reputational damage, and potential legal 
exposure.
At Manappuram Finance Limited, the governance framework 
is central to ensuring ethical decision-making, accountability, 
and alignment with stakeholder interests. However, any 
lapses in oversight, transparency, or conduct may adversely 
affect the company’s credibility and operational performance. 
As such, robust governance mechanisms are essential to 
managing this risk and maintaining the company’s license to 
operate in a highly regulated financial environment.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a structured and 
integrity-driven approach to mitigate risks associated 
with 
corporate 
governance. 
The 
company 
has 
established a robust governance framework supported 
by well-defined policies, internal controls, and periodic 
audits to ensure regulatory compliance, ethical conduct, 
and accountability across all levels of the organisation.
Governance policies related to ethics, anti-bribery, and 
anti-corruption are not only applicable to the company 
but also extend to its subsidiaries, vendors, consultants, 
suppliers, and other external stakeholders. This broad 
application reinforces the company’s commitment to 
ethical business practices across its value chain.
The Board of Directors plays a central role in overseeing 
management actions and ensuring alignment with 
stakeholder interests. Transparent disclosures, timely 
communication, and board-level oversight are integral 
to the company’s governance practices, ensuring that 
stakeholders, particularly vulnerable and marginalised 
groups, are considered in decision-making processes.
Negative
8
Business 
Ethics
Risk
Business ethics is a critical area of risk that directly affects a 
company’s reputation, stakeholder trust, and legal standing. 
Key ethical concerns in the workplace include discrimination, 
harassment, conflicts of interest, unethical accounting 
practices, workplace safety violations, abuse of authority, 
and corrupt conduct. Any failure to uphold ethical standards 
can lead to regulatory sanctions, legal liabilities, employee 
disengagement, and severe reputational damage.
For Manappuram Finance Limited, maintaining high ethical 
standards is essential to preserving integrity across all 
operations. Unethical behavior at any level can undermine 
stakeholder 
confidence 
and 
compromise 
long-term 
sustainability. As such, the company places strong emphasis 
on embedding ethical conduct through policies, training, 
monitoring mechanisms, and a transparent whistleblower 
system to mitigate these risks effectively.
Manappuram 
Finance 
Limited 
has 
instituted 
a 
comprehensive risk management framework to mitigate 
risks associated with unethical conduct and integrity 
breaches. The company promotes a culture of ethical 
behavior through regular employee training, focused 
on codes of conduct, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and 
responsible business practices.
Strict compliance protocols and strong internal controls 
are enforced across operations to detect and prevent 
ethical violations. In addition, thorough client due diligence 
is carried out to ensure transparency and alignment with 
the company’s ethical standards.
These measures collectively safeguard the company’s 
reputation, reduce legal and regulatory risks, and 
enhance stakeholder confidence.
Negative
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
76
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
9
Regulatory 
Compliance
Risk
Regulatory compliance is a critical risk factor for financial 
institutions, particularly Non-Banking Financial Companies 
(NBFCs), operating in a tightly governed environment. 
Adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and industry 
standards is essential to maintaining the company’s license 
to operate, protecting stakeholder interests, and upholding 
ethical business conduct.
Failure to comply with regulatory requirements can result 
in severe consequences, including monetary penalties, 
legal proceedings, operational restrictions, and reputational 
damage. Such outcomes may erode customer trust, 
disrupt business continuity, and negatively impact investor 
confidence.
Manappuram Finance Limited recognises the materiality of 
this risk and has implemented comprehensive compliance 
frameworks and internal controls to ensure timely adherence 
to evolving legal and regulatory obligations.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a proactive and 
structured approach to mitigate risks related to regulatory 
compliance. The company ensures strict adherence to all 
applicable laws, regulations, and statutory obligations 
through a robust compliance framework. This includes 
maintaining accurate records, conducting periodic 
internal audits, and providing regular compliance training 
to employees to reinforce awareness and accountability.
The dedicated Compliance Function operates across all 
relevant levels of the organisation and plays a critical role 
in monitoring, reporting, and ensuring timely adherence 
to evolving regulatory requirements. It also keeps the 
Board of Directors and senior management informed 
about the status of compliance, regulatory changes, and 
potential areas of risk.
Negative
10
Fraud Risk 
Management
Risk
Fraud risk is a material concern for Non-Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFCs), given the nature of financial transactions 
and the scale of customer interactions. Instances of internal 
or external fraud can result in significant financial losses, 
regulatory action, and erosion of stakeholder trust. Such 
events may also severely damage the company’s reputation 
and undermine customer confidence in its integrity and 
systems.
Manappuram Finance Limited recognises that proactive 
fraud risk management is essential to safeguarding assets, 
maintaining operational credibility, and ensuring compliance 
with regulatory expectations.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a proactive and 
multi-layered approach to fraud risk management, 
anchored by its comprehensive Fraud Risk Management 
Policy. This policy outlines structured mechanisms 
for fraud identification, escalation, and resolution, and 
is implemented under the oversight of the dedicated 
Vigilance Department.
The company conducts regular internal audits, enforces 
stringent internal controls, and leverages advanced 
fraud detection tools to monitor transactional anomalies. 
It also emphasises ethical conduct through continuous 
employee training and awareness programs aimed at 
reinforcing a zero-tolerance culture towards fraud.
In collaboration with business units, Manappuram 
Finance systematically strengthens fraud management 
practices across five critical pillars: prevention, detection, 
response, remediation, and reporting. These integrated 
efforts enhance operational security, reduce financial 
exposure, and uphold stakeholder trust.
Negative
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
77
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
11
Innovation
Opportunity
Innovation, particularly digital transformation, presents a 
significant opportunity for Non-Banking Financial Companies 
(NBFCs) to drive operational efficiency, enhance customer 
experience, and maintain competitiveness in an evolving 
financial services landscape. For Manappuram Finance 
Limited, leveraging technology to deliver faster, more 
accessible, and customer-centric financial solutions is central 
to its long-term growth strategy.
Recognising 
the 
shift 
toward 
digital-led 
financial 
intermediation, the company continuously refines its IT 
strategy to improve delivery channels, streamline operations, 
and address information security concerns. A key milestone 
in this journey was the launch of India’s first Online Gold Loan 
(OGL) platform in October 2015, enabling customers to avail 
gold loans seamlessly through internet-enabled devices—
anytime and from anywhere.
By embedding innovation across its business model, 
Manappuram Finance not only expands its reach to 
underserved populations but also builds resilience, agility, 
and customer loyalty in a dynamic financial ecosystem.
NA
Positive
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
78
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
12
Initiatives 
on clean 
technology, 
energy 
efficiency, 
renewable 
energy, etc
Risk
Manappuram Finance Limited acknowledges that its 
operational activities, though primarily service-oriented, 
contribute to environmental impacts through energy 
consumption, carbon emissions, and waste generation. 
These environmental factors present growing risks in the 
form of regulatory obligations, stakeholder expectations, and 
reputational exposure, particularly as sustainability-related 
compliance frameworks become more stringent.
Recognising this risk enables the company to proactively 
adopt clean technologies, energy-efficient infrastructure, and 
renewable energy solutions to minimise its environmental 
footprint. Such initiatives not only support regulatory 
compliance but also enhance resource efficiency, reduce 
operational costs over time, and align the company with 
national and global climate commitments.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts an environmentally 
responsible approach to mitigate risks associated with 
its environmental footprint by integrating sustainability 
into its operations. Guided by its Environmental, Social, 
and Governance (ESG) Policy, the company is committed 
to promoting clean technology, energy efficiency, 
and resource conservation. Under its Green Initiative, 
shareholders are encouraged to receive Annual Reports 
electronically, significantly reducing paper consumption. 
Additionally, the company has launched a Paperless 
Office project to digitise internal processes and minimise 
paper usage across all business functions.
To reduce emissions from travel, video and audio 
conferencing infrastructure has been established at 
Regional and major Branch offices, thereby minimising 
the need for business travel. The company also uses low-
noise, low-emission diesel generator sets at key locations 
to reduce environmental impact from backup power 
sources.
Energy conservation is further promoted through the 
adoption of energy-efficient equipment, routine monitoring 
of energy usage, and optimised use of lighting and air-
conditioning systems at branches and corporate offices.
Negative
13
Climate 
Change
Risk
Climate change presents both physical and transition-related 
risks that can materially impact the operations and resilience 
of financial institutions like Manappuram Finance Limited. 
Physical risks such as extreme weather events like floods, 
cyclones, and heatwaves, can disrupt business continuity, 
damage infrastructure, and endanger employee safety, 
particularly in regions with high climate vulnerability.
In parallel, transition risks arising from policy shifts, evolving 
regulatory frameworks, and market changes linked to the low-
carbon economy may affect portfolio exposure, compliance 
requirements, and cost structures. These climate-related 
risks pose potential threats to the company’s operational 
stability, growth trajectory, and long-term profitability.
Manappuram Finance Limited adopts a forward-looking 
approach to address the risks associated with climate 
change by integrating climate risk assessments into its 
strategic and financial planning processes. The company 
conducts scenario analyses to evaluate the potential 
impact of both physical and transition climate risks on 
vulnerable business segments such as agriculture, 
commercial vehicle finance, and microfinance.
These assessments help determine the level of capital 
required to withstand adverse climate events and ensure 
the company remains adequately capitalised under 
various risk scenarios. In addition, climate-related risks 
are incorporated into the company’s Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), aligning risk 
management with long-term financial resilience and 
regulatory expectations.
Negative
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
79
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
14
Risk 
Management 
and Internal 
controls
Opportunity
Manappuram Finance Limited views strong risk management 
and internal controls as a strategic opportunity to enhance 
operational resilience, safeguard stakeholder interests, and 
drive sustainable growth. The company has established 
clear risk tolerance parameters and comprehensive policies, 
including a dedicated Operational Risk Management Policy, 
to ensure structured risk oversight across its operations.
Robust internal control mechanisms are in place, including 
secure handling of customer gold assets, adherence to 
regulatory guidelines, and periodic audits based on branch-
level risk categorisation. Regular reviews of identified risks 
and the effectiveness of mitigation measures enable the 
company to adapt to evolving threats and maintain business 
continuity.
This proactive and systematised risk governance framework 
not only reduces exposure to operational and reputational 
risks but also reinforces investor confidence, regulatory 
compliance, and long-term value creation.
NA
Positive
15
Transition to 
low carbon 
economy
Risk
The transition to a low-carbon economy presents significant 
risks for financial institutions, particularly in sectors exposed 
to evolving government policies, emerging technologies, and 
changing consumer behavior. Manappuram Finance Limited 
actively monitors these dynamics to assess potential impacts 
on its lending portfolio and market segments.
Regulatory changes such as the withdrawal or modification of 
green incentives—e.g., the phasing out of the FAME subsidy—
can directly affect the viability of certain asset classes, such 
as electric two-wheelers. Such shifts may result in reduced 
consumer demand, asset devaluation, and an increase in loan 
defaults for NBFCs financing these products.
Manappuram Finance Limited acknowledges the growing 
global momentum toward a low-carbon economy and 
the associated regulatory, market, and technological 
transition risks. In response, the company has initiated 
steps to evaluate the carbon footprint of its operations 
and explore pathways to align with national and global 
decarbonisation goals.
As part of its climate-conscious strategy, the company 
has begun financing electric vehicles (EVs), supporting the 
shift towards cleaner mobility solutions and reducing its 
indirect environmental impact. Additionally, the company 
is exploring energy-efficient practices and operational 
improvements that contribute to long-term carbon 
reduction.
Negative
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
80
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy And Management Processes
1. 	 a. 	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
	
b. 	 Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
	
c. 	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
2.	  Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
3. 	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)
No
4.	 Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards 
(e.g. 
Forest 
Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) 
standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped 
to each principle.
No
5. 	 Specific commitments, goals and targets 
set by the entity with defined timelines, if 
any.
Manappuram Finance Limited is committed to advancing its environmental and 
social performance, though specific quantitative targets and timelines are yet to be 
formally defined. Nevertheless, we have undertaken key initiatives that reflect our 
strategic priorities. Environmentally, we have initiated solar electrification across 
multiple office locations, supported the transition to an electric vehicle fleet, and 
enhanced sewage treatment facilities as part of our resource efficiency efforts.
On the social front, we prioritise employee well-being through a suite of benefits 
including insurance, HKA salary, maternity leave, casual and sick leave, and 
opportunities for team building, social engagement, and professional development.
Our commitment to community development is demonstrated through impactful 
CSR initiatives such as:
•	
Diagnostic and ambulance services (Macare Diagnostics, Ambulance support)
•	
Health and wellness infrastructure (gym, badminton, yoga facilities, Mahima 
swimming pool)
•	
Education and skill development support (Mukundapuram and Mageet schools, 
MA Skill, etc)
•	
Infrastructure and livelihood support (community housing projects, donations for 
medical support, provision of mobile devices for students)
6. 	 Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals and targets 
along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
Manappuram Finance Limited continues to progress on its environmental and social 
commitments. The performance against key initiatives during the reporting period is 
as follows:
•	
Renewable Energy Consumption: Achieved a consumption of 31 MWh, 
reinforcing our commitment to increase the share of clean energy in our 
operations.
•	
Energy Intensity Reduction: Recorded a 7.82% reduction in energy intensity 
per unit of revenue, reflecting enhanced operational efficiency and energy 
management.
•	
Emission Intensity Reduction: Achieved a 5.96% reduction in total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover, demonstrating our efforts 
towards decarbonising operations.
•	
Electric Mobility: Our electric vehicle fleet travelled 96,459 kilometers, resulting 
in an estimated emissions savings of 11,659 kgCO₂e.
•	
Community Impact: Through various CSR initiatives, we positively impacted 
132,733 individuals, with 99% belonging to vulnerable or marginalised groups, 
underlining our inclusive development focus.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
81
Governance, leadership and oversight
7: 	 Statement 
by 
director 
responsible 
for the business responsibility report, 
highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity 
has flexibility regarding the placement 
of this disclosure)
At Manappuram Finance Limited, our commitment to responsible growth is guided by 
a deep understanding of the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues that 
impact our stakeholders. As part of our Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
approach, we have identified and prioritised material topics that represent both risks 
and opportunities for our long-term success.
Employee well-being remains a key opportunity, and we continue to invest in our 
workforce through comprehensive benefits such as insurance, maternity salary, 
casual and sick leave, HKA salary, team-building programs, and professional 
development initiatives. Similarly, our focus on diversity and inclusion, financial 
inclusion, and responsible financing allows us to create equitable access and build a 
resilient business model.
Environmentally, we have made measurable progress towards our sustainability 
goals. During the reporting period, we achieved a 7.82% reduction in energy intensity 
per unit of revenue and a 5.96% reduction in total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover, demonstrating our commitment to operational 
efficiency and decarbonisation.
Our investments in solar energy (31 MWh consumed), the expansion of our electric 
vehicle fleet (96,459 km traveled, leading to 11,659 kgCO₂e emissions avoided), and 
enhancements to sewage treatment systems further advance our clean technology 
and low-carbon transition objectives.
We acknowledge significant ESG-related risks that require active monitoring and 
mitigation. These include customer support and satisfaction, over-indebtedness, 
climate change, corporate governance, business ethics, regulatory compliance, and 
fraud risk management. Managing these areas is crucial to maintaining stakeholder 
trust and ensuring long-term stability.
Our community impact reflects our core values. Through CSR initiatives such as 
Macare Diagnostics, ambulance services, sports and wellness infrastructure, 
school and skill-building support, and educational coaching through Macampus and 
Maacademy, we have positively impacted 132,733 individuals, with 99% belonging 
to vulnerable or marginalised communities.
We recognise that while substantial progress has been made, there is more to do. 
We are currently working towards formalising specific, measurable ESG targets and 
strengthening our risk-response mechanisms. Our forward-looking strategy will 
further embed ESG across business operations, ensuring resilience and responsible 
value creation for all our stakeholders.
8: 	 Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
Mr. V.P. Nandakumar, MD and CEO.
9: 	 Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). 
If yes, provide details.
Yes, The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee is designated to oversee 
and guide the company’s sustainability and CSR initiatives.
10: 	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / Committee 
of the Board/ Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8
P9
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against above policies and 
follow up action
Committee of the Board
Annually
Compliance with statutory requirements 
of relevance to the principles, and, 
rectification of any non-compliances
Committee of the Board
Annually
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
82
P1
P2
P3  P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11. 	Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the 
working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name 
of the agency.
No
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total 
number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of 
Directors
1
SEBI Compliance - ESG and the principles and disclosure requirements 
for the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report.
100%
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
34
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) have undergone targeted training 
programs aligned with the principles of the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC). These sessions have enhanced 
their capability to integrate sustainability, governance, and stakeholder 
interests into strategic and operational decision-making. 
•	
Principle 1: KMPs were trained on the Whistle Blower Policy, Gift 
Policy, Fair Practices Code for Lenders, Fair Lending Practice – Penal 
Charges in Local Accounts, Employee Code Reactivation Policy, 
and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Policy and Procedures. These 
trainings have strengthened their ability to uphold ethical standards, 
recognise and mitigate risks related to conflicts of interest and non-
compliance, and foster a transparent and accountable leadership 
culture. 
•	
Principle 3: Sessions on the Revised Transfer, Promotion, Posting 
and Job Rotation Policy, and Outstation Allowance Revision have 
enabled KMPs to ensure fairness in human resource decisions. These 
programs have reinforced their commitment to equitable treatment, 
career development, and employee welfare across various levels of 
the organisation. 
•	
Principle 6: Through training on ESG and BRSR frameworks and 
the Green Vehicle Scheme, KMPs have gained insights into the 
company’s sustainability roadmap and environmental commitments. 
These sessions have enabled them to lead by example, promote 
low-carbon mobility options, and align strategic decisions with 
environmental goals. 
•	
Principle 9: Key leaders participated in training sessions covering 
Phishing & E-mail Security, Modus Operandi and Precautions Against 
Fraudulent Digital Transactions, Information Security Migration 
Awareness (ISO 27001:2022), Information Security Management 
System (ISMS), and Social Media Policy and Procedures. These have 
equipped KMPs to ensure robust information security governance, 
protect customer data, mitigate cyber risks, and promote responsible 
digital engagement within the organisation.
100%
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
83
Segment
Total 
number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Employees 
other than 
BoD and 
KMPs
1966
The training topics are aligned with the nine principles of the National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC), and have been 
instrumental in enabling employees to apply these principles in their 
day-to-day roles. 
•	
Principle 1: Employees were trained on the Code of Ethics, 
Whistleblower Policy, Employee Speak-up Policy, Insider Trading 
Policy, Gift Policy, Legal Policy, Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
Policy, Fraud Risk Management, and Suspicious Transactions 
Reporting. These sessions have empowered employees to recognise 
ethical dilemmas, report irregularities without fear, avoid conflicts 
of interest, and comply with anti-fraud and anti-money laundering 
norms, thereby strengthening organisational integrity. 
•	
Principle 3: Well-being of Employees: Training programs on 
Employee Grievance Reporting Mechanisms and Fire and Safety 
Protocols have helped employees understand how to raise concerns 
in a structured and confidential manner and how to respond during 
emergencies. These initiatives have reinforced our commitment to 
providing a safe, healthy, and supportive work environment. 
•	
Principle 4: Responsiveness to Stakeholders: Training on the Social 
Media Policy and Customer Confidentiality Guidelines has ensured 
that employees engage with external stakeholders in a responsible 
and professional manner, while also protecting customer data and 
the company’s reputation in digital and public platforms. 
•	
Principle 5: Respect for Human Rights: Awareness sessions on 
Employee Benefits and Wellness, the POSH (Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment) Policy, and related grievance mechanisms have 
promoted a culture of dignity, equality, and respect within the 
workplace. Employees are now more aware of their rights and 
responsibilities in creating a respectful and inclusive environment. 
•	
Principle 6: Environmental Protection and Preparedness: Through 
training on our Business Continuity Management Policy and 
ESG Policy, employees have been sensitised to the importance 
of operational resilience and environmental sustainability. These 
trainings have equipped teams to respond effectively to disruptions 
and support the company’s long-term sustainability goals. 
•	
Principle 7: Responsible Policy Engagement: Legal and compliance 
teams were trained on the Legal Policy and Insider Policy to 
ensure that the company’s interactions with regulatory bodies are 
transparent, responsible, and fully compliant with applicable laws. 
•	
Principle 8: Inclusive Growth and Development: Training on the 
CSR Policy has helped employees understand how the company 
contributes to social impact initiatives and the role employees can 
play in advancing equitable development. 
•	
Principle 9: Customer Value and Protection: Sessions on the Fair 
Practice Code, Information Security and Cyber Security Awareness, 
Data Privacy, and Customer Grievance Resolution Mechanism have 
trained employees to serve customers fairly, handle data securely, 
and address complaints in a timely and transparent manner. 
94.41%
In addition to principle-specific training, role-based skill development 
programs have been rolled out across departments to strengthen 
functional capabilities and support career growth. These include 
domain-specific modules, compliance updates, and behavioural training 
that prepare employees for evolving business and regulatory demands.
Workers
0
-
0%
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
84
2. 	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format 
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/
judicial 
institutions
Amount (In 
INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred ? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Principle 
1
BSE
` 1,55,760/-
Regulation 34 of SEBI (LODR) - Regulations, 
2015 Non-submission of the Annual Report 
within the period prescribed under this 
regulation
The Company paid the fine on 29th October, 
2024.
No
Principle 
1
NSE
` 1,55,760/-
Regulation 34 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015 - The Company paid the fine on 29th 
October ,2024.
No.
Principle 
1
RBI
` 41,50,000/- The Reserve Bank of India imposed a monetary 
penalty of ` 41.50 Lakhs (Rupees Forty One 
Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) for non-compliance 
with paragraph 3(a)(v) of definitions under 
the Master Direction- Know Your Customer 
Direction (KYC) Direction 2016 (as updated on 
May 10, 2021). The violation involved 106 out 
of 118 KYC documents (constituting 90% of 
the sample), not being countersigned by the 
authorised officials
Further observations included: In the initial off-
site scrutiny, PAN details for three wallets were 
either incorrectly recorded or unavailable. Upon 
branch visits, PAN copies were unavailable for 
27 out of 30 wallets constituting (90% of the 
sample), violating paragraph 16 of the KYC MD.
Aadhar numbers were not redacted in 9 out of 
95 wallets during off-site scrutiny. In branch 
level checks, Aadhar was not redacted in 7 of 
14 wallets (50% of the sample) again violating 
paragraph 16, explanation 1 of the KYC Master 
Direction.
Principle 
1
RBI
` 20,00,000/- A monetary penalty of ` 20.00 Lakhs (Rupees 
Twenty Lakhs only) was imposed for the 
following violations: 
Failure to verify PAN through the verification 
facility of the issuing authority.
Allotment of multiple UCICs (Unique Customer 
Identification Codes) to a single customer instead 
of maintaining a single UCIC per individual
No
Settlement
-
-
-
-
-
Compounding 
fee
-
-
-
-
-
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
85
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/judicial institutions
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred ? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
-
-
-
-
Punishment
-
-
-
-
3. 	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
	
Not applicable. There were no cases of appeal or revision in the financial year.
4. 	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link 
to the policy.
	
Yes, Manappuram Finance Limited has a robust and comprehensive anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy framework. 
Key components include:
	
1.	
Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor, and Report Trading by Designated Persons in Securities: Aligned with Regulation 
9(1) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, this code prevents insider trading by ensuring the 
confidentiality of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI). It prohibits designated persons and their immediate 
relatives from trading in the company’s securities while in possession of UPSI.
	
2.	
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of UPSI: Compliant with Regulation 8(1) of the SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, this code mandates the fair, non-selective dissemination of UPSI, promoting transparency 
and integrity in disclosures.
	
3.	
Fair Practice Code (FPC): Following the Reserve Bank of India’s NBFC guidelines (Master Direction – NBFC–Scale Based 
Regulation, October 19, 2023), this code governs fair and ethical practices in lending, recovery, and service delivery.
	
Together, these policies form a strong internal control environment focused on ethical conduct, preventing corruption/bribery, and 
promoting transparency. For full details, the policy documents are available on the official website: https://www.manappuram.
com/policies-codes
5. 	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
	
There was no instance where disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for charges of bribery or corruption 
against directors and KMPs.
6. 	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
	
There were was no instances or complaints regarding conflict of interest against directors and KMPs.
7. 	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
There were was no instances where disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for charges of bribery, 
corruption or conflicts of interest against directors and KMPs in the financial year.
8. 	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
FY-2025
FY-2024
Number of days of accounts payables
74
99
9: 	
Open-ness of business: Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties 
along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
86
Parameter
Metrics
FY-2025
FY-2024
Concentration of 
Purchases
a. 	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
0
0
b. 	 Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
0
0
c. 	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
0%
0%
Concentration of Sales
a. 	 Sales to dealers /distributors as % of total sales
0%
0%
b. 	 Number of dealers /distributors to whom sales are 
made
0
0
c. 	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers / distributors
0%
0%
Share of RPTs in
a. 	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
0.01%
0.03%
b. 	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
0.25%
0.10%
c. 	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties/ Total loans & advances)
0.07%
0.58%
d. 	 Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
2.74%
17.63%
Note: Manappuram Finance Limited, as a finance company, recognises that its turnover primarily comprises interest income, 
while its purchases relate to interest payments to lenders.
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
	
During the financial year, Manappuram Finance Limited maintained regular engagement with its value chain partners, reinforcing 
expectations of responsible and ethical conduct. While no formal awareness programmes directly aligned with the BRSR 
Principles were conducted, the company continued to promote sustainability-oriented practices through ongoing operational 
communication and partner interactions. These efforts reflect our commitment to integrating ESG values across our ecosystem. 
Going forward, Manappuram aims to develop more structured awareness and capacity-building initiatives to further embed 
these principles within its value chain.
2. 	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, 
provide details of the same.
	
Yes, Manappuram Finance Limited maintains robust processes to prevent and manage conflicts of interest involving 
Board members.
	
•	
Policy on Related Party Transactions: To mitigate potential conflicts, we have implemented a comprehensive Policy on 
Related Party Transactions. This policy establishes guidelines and procedures for identifying, evaluating, and managing 
transactions involving related parties, including Board members. It ensures that such transactions are conducted at arm’s 
length and in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders.
	
•	
Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor, and Report Trading by Designated Persons in Securities of Manappuram Finance 
Limited: In compliance with Regulation 9(1) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, our Code of 
Conduct regulates, monitors, and reports trading by designated persons in Manappuram Finance Limited’s securities. It aims 
to prevent insider trading, uphold securities laws, and safeguard the company’s reputation and integrity. The code strictly 
prohibits designated persons and their immediate relatives from trading in the company’s securities while in possession 
of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI).
	
•	
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information:  As per Regulation 
8(1) of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, our Fair Disclosure Code ensures the equitable and 
non-selective dissemination of UPSI. It outlines principles, procedures, and practices for the uniform and fair disclosure of 
UPSI by the company.
	
•	
Fair Practice Code (FPC): Developed in accordance with guidelines from the Reserve Bank of India, our Fair Practice 
Code sets out ethical standards for non-banking financial companies. It has been updated to comply with the Master 
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023, issued 
on October 19, 2023.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
87
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social 
impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
	
This disclosure is not applicable given the nature of the company’s business operations.
2 	
a.: 	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?
	
	
No. Manappuram Finance Limited does not have formalised procedures in place for sustainable sourcing due the nature 
of our business operations.
2 	
b.: 	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Not Applicable.
3: 	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) 
Plastics (including packaging) (b) Hazardous waste and ( c) other waste.
	
Not Applicable.
4. 	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same
	
No.
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
Not Applicable. Manappuram Finance Limited does not manufacture physical products; rather, it provides financial solutions 
such as gold loans, microfinance, and other related services. The nature of the business does not lend itself to LCA evaluations, 
which are typically relevant for manufacturing-based operations with tangible product life cycles.
2. 	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products / 
services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
	
Not Applicable.
3. 	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) 
Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Not Applicable
4. 	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
	
Not Applicable
5. 	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
	
Not Applicable
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
88
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value 
chains
Essential Indicators
1. 	
a. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A) Number 
( c)
% (C/A) Number 
(D)
% (D/A) Number 
(E)
% (E/A) Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
18072
9127
50.50%
12769
70.66%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
6578
3039
46.20%
4549
69.15%
242
3.68%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
24650
12166
49.35%
17318
70.26%
242
0.98%
0
0%
0
0%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
2378
747
31.41%
808
33.98%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
5818
242
4.16%
263
4.52%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
8196
989
12.07%
1071
13.07%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
1. 	
b. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity  
benefits
Paternity  
Benefits
Day Care  
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A) Number 
( c)
% (C/A) Number 
(D)
% (D/A) Number 
(E)
% (E/A) Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Other than Permanent workers
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
	
c. 	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) 
in the following format-
FY-2025
FY-2024
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the company
1.51%
1.98%
2. 	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY-2025
FY-2024
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
99.70%
0%
Y
99.68%
0%
Y
Gratuity
20.96%
0%
Y
24.45%
0%
Y
ESI
60.69%
0%
Y
64.56%
0%
Y
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
89
3. 	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
No, Manappuram Finance Limited acknowledges that its offices are not yet fully compliant with the accessibility requirements 
outlined in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. We recognise the importance of creating an inclusive and accessible 
work environment for all individuals, including persons with disabilities. In this regard, we are in the process of evaluating our 
infrastructure and operational policies to identify necessary improvements. Future upgrades and new facility developments 
will integrate accessibility features to better support the needs of differently abled employees and workers.
4. 	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link 
to the policy.
	
No, we do not currently have an equal opportunity policy.
5. 	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
0%
0%
0%
0%
Female
100%
52.49%
0%
0%
Total
100%
52.49%
0%
0%
6. 	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If yes, 
give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
No.
Other than Permanent Workers
No.
Permanent Employees
Yes.
Other than Permanent Employees
Yes.
	
Note: Manappuram Finance Limited has established a formal grievance redressal mechanism for all categories of employees. 
The company has implemented a comprehensive Employee Grievance Policy that provides a structured and transparent 
framework for reporting and resolving grievances. This mechanism allows employees to raise concerns or complaints related 
to workplace issues, policies, conduct, or any other matter impacting their work environment. Grievances can be submitted in 
writing or electronically to designated officers or HR representatives. All grievances are reviewed objectively, and appropriate 
actions are taken in a timely manner. The process is designed to ensure confidentiality, fairness, and protection against retaliation, 
thereby promoting a safe and supportive workplace for all.
7. 	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
	
Manappuram Finance Limited does not recognise any employee unions or associations. None of our employees are part of any 
employee union or association.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
90
8. 	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total (A)
On Health and  
safety measures
On Skill  
upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and  
safety measures
On Skill  
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. ( c)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
23890
22554
94.41%
22049
92.29%
22879
22152
96.82%
22152
96.82%
Female
8956
8484
94.73%
8532
95.26%
6841
6819
99.68%
6819
99.68%
Total
32846
31038
94.50%
30581
93.10%
29720
28971
97.48%
28971
97.48%
Workers
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
9. 	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:	
Category
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total ( c)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
23890
11665
48.82%
22879
9166
40.06%
Female
8956
4962
55.40%
6841
1133
16.56%
Total
32846
16627
50.62%
29720
10299
34.65%
Workers
Male
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
10: 	 Health and safety management system:
	
a. 	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system?
	
	
Yes. Manappuram Finance Limited has implemented an internal Occupational Health and Safety Management System 
across its corporate offices, zonal offices, and branches. The system includes regular fire and safety drills to ensure 
preparedness for emergencies, strict workplace hygiene and sanitation practices to maintain a clean and healthy 
environment, and ongoing health and safety awareness programs. Safety-related information is disseminated through 
internal communication channels covering topics such as road safety, personal wellness, hydration, and physical activity.
	
b. 	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by 
the entity?
	
	
The company uses a structured Security and Branch Ambience Checklist to identify and assess work-related hazards. 
This checklist evaluates factors such as the branch exterior and interior layout, customer service area quality, availability of 
water and basic amenities, and overall branch security. These assessments are carried out routinely by the administration 
and facility teams to ensure that both routine and non-routine risks are monitored and mitigated effectively.
	
c. 	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes.
	
d. 	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
91
11. 	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
12. 	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
Manappuram Finance Limited takes several measures to ensure a safe and healthy workplace for its employees. For detailed 
information, please refer to our response to Principle 3, Essential Disclosure 10a, where we provide comprehensive details about 
our efforts in promoting a safe and healthy work environment
13. 	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY-2025
FY-2024
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
1
0
-
13
1
One complaint 
settled on April 9, 
2024
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
14. 	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Working Conditions
100%
Health & Safety Practices
0%
15. 	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks 
/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
No major corrective actions were necessitated during the year. We conduct periodic assessments based on our security and 
branch ambiance checklist to identify and address any concerns proactively. Each branch is responsible for ensuring compliance 
with the checklist and maintaining the quality standards outlined. These assessments help us continually improve our health 
and safety practices, ensuring a safe and secure working environment for our employees and customers.
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N).
	
Yes, in the unfortunate event of the death of an employee, Manappuram Finance Limited extends the following compensatory 
benefits to the nominee or legal heir:
	
1.	
Gratuity
	
2.	
Provident Fund Settlement
	
3.	
Employee Deposit Linked Insurance (EDLI)
	
4.	
Group Life Insurance
	
5.	
Group Personal Accident (GPA) Insurance
	
These benefits reflect the company’s commitment to supporting the families of its employees and ensuring financial protection 
during unforeseen circumstances.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
92
2. 	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
	
Manappuram Finance Limited places strong emphasis on ensuring statutory compliance across its value chain. We have a 
stringent vendor onboarding and evaluation process, which includes a thorough review of a vendor’s historical compliance with 
applicable statutory and regulatory obligations. As part of this process, prospective vendors are required to furnish relevant 
documentation—such as GST registration, PAN, EPF/ESI registration and past compliance records, prior to engagement. This due 
diligence approach helps us ensure that we engage with value chain partners who demonstrate a verifiable commitment to 
legal and ethical standards.
3. 	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence workrelated injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment:
	
Not Applicable.
4. 	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No. Currently, Manappuram Finance Limited does not have formal transition assistance programs in place to support continued 
employability or the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment.
5. 	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) 
that were assessed
Working Conditions
0%
Health & Safety Practices
0%
	
Note: Manappuram Finance Limited did not conduct assessments of our value chain partners during the reporting period.
6. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not Applicable.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we follow a structured and ongoing process to identify our key stakeholder groups. This process 
begins with a detailed analysis of our business operations to map all individuals and entities impacted by or having an interest in 
our activities. Our primary stakeholders include shareholders and investors, employees, customers, business partners, suppliers, 
local communities, and government and regulatory bodies.
	
We also consider the broader impact of our operations on local communities, recognising them as integral to our stakeholder 
ecosystem. Through continuous engagement and assessment, we ensure we remain responsive to stakeholder expectations 
and concerns. This approach enables us to manage relationships effectively, mitigate risks, promote sustainable practices, and 
deliver long-term value to all stakeholders.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
93
2. 	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of 
communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Shareholders 
and Investors
No
Email, Newspaper, Website, 
SMS, Post
Quarterly
- Update of the company 
- Call for meeting
Employees
No
Email, Website, SMS.
As Required
- Update of company 
- Work update
Customers
No
Email, Website, SMS, 
Newspaper, Post
As Required
- To share new loan scheme 
- Interest rate changes 
- To intimate due date for payment , 
auction related and other statuary 
intimations
Business 
partners
No
Email, Website
As Required
- Update of the company
Suppliers
No
Email
As Required
- Update of the company 
- Official communication like Purchase 
order, payment confirmation, 
Collecting quotation etc
Local 
Communities
Yes
Website, Social Media Post
As Required
- Educate local communities on the 
initiatives and benefits. 
- Collect feedback from community 
leaders and members. 
- Address grievances raised by local 
communities.
Government 
and 
Regulators
No
Email, Post
As Required
- Update compliance 
- Take regulatory approvals and 
regulatory intimations
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or 
if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we have established structured processes to ensure effective consultation between 
stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social matters. Stakeholder consultations are conducted through 
multiple channels, including meetings, surveys, feedback mechanisms, and dedicated stakeholder forums. These engagements 
enable stakeholders to share their views, concerns, and recommendations directly with the management.
	
Feedback gathered through these consultations is systematically documented and reported to the Board through structured 
reporting mechanisms. This includes regular updates on stakeholder engagement activities, key topics raised, and the actions 
taken in response. Such reporting ensures that the Board remains informed about stakeholder expectations and concerns, 
enabling it to integrate these insights into strategic decision-making.
	
We believe that maintaining continuous and transparent dialogue with stakeholders strengthens trust, supports responsible 
business practices, and enhances our long-term sustainability outcomes.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
94
2. 	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics 
(Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated 
into policies and activities of the entity.
	
No.
3. 	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalised 
stakeholder groups.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we are deeply committed to fostering inclusive development by proactively engaging with 
vulnerable and marginalised stakeholder groups. Our efforts are focused on understanding their unique challenges and 
delivering targeted interventions to enhance their socio-economic well-being. Key initiatives undertaken during the reporting 
period include:
	
1.	
Community Needs Assessment – Conducted structured surveys and assessments in underserved areas to identify specific 
needs of marginalised populations.
	
2.	
Stakeholder Collaboration – Partnered with local leaders, NGOs, and grassroots organisations to co-create solutions 
addressing critical social issues.
	
3.	
Impact Evaluation – Implemented feedback mechanisms and community consultations to evaluate the effectiveness of 
our initiatives and refine strategies accordingly.
	
4.	
Educational Support – Provided scholarships, learning materials, and digital education access to children from low-income 
and socially disadvantaged backgrounds.
	
5.	
Healthcare Access – Organised free medical camps and health awareness drives to ensure access to basic healthcare 
services for underserved communities.
	
6.	
Skill Development and Vocational Training – Conducted training programs in areas such as tailoring, computer literacy, 
and financial literacy to enhance employability.
	
7.	
Infrastructure Development – Supported the construction of community amenities including toilets, drinking water facilities, 
and multipurpose centers.
	
8.	
Emergency Relief and Rehabilitation – Delivered immediate assistance, food supplies, and rebuilding support during floods 
and other local disasters.
	
9.	
Women Empowerment – Promoted self-help groups, microfinance opportunities, and entrepreneurship training to support 
the socio-economic advancement of women.
	
10.	 Livelihood Enhancement – Offered financial assistance, tools, and capacity-building support for small-scale businesses, 
artisans, and farmers.
	
Through these initiatives, Manappuram Finance Limited has demonstrated its commitment to inclusive growth and responsible 
corporate citisenship. We continue to align our community outreach programs with stakeholder needs to contribute meaningfully 
toward a more equitable and resilient society.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
95
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total ( c)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Permanent
24650
23562
95.59%
22879
22152
96.82%
Other than Permanent
8196
7789
95.03%
6841
6819
99.68%
Total Employees
32846
31351
95.45%
29720
28971
97.48%
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Other than Permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total Workers
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. ( c)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
18072
11578
64.07%
6494
35.93%
16149
3358
20.79%
12791
79.21%
Female
6578
4839
73.56%
1739
26.44%
6321
993
15.71%
5328
84.29%
Other than 
Permanent
Male
5818
763
13.11%
5055
86.89%
6730
3797
56.42%
2933
43.58%
Female
2378
403
16.95%
1975
83.05%
520
261
50.19%
259
49.81%
Workers
Permanent
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Other than 
Permanent
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
3: 	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
	
a.: 	
Median remuneration / wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD)
7
` 52,02,500
3
` 45,50,000
Key Managerial Personnel
2
` 6,31,26,318
2
` 1,67,58,000
Employees other than BoD and KMP
23886
` 3,09,085
8956
` 2,94,334
Workers
0
-
-
-
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
96
	
b.: 	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format
FY-2025
FY-2024
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
21.91%
21.48%
4. 	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. Manappuram Finance Limited recognises the significance of addressing human rights impacts within its operations and has 
established appropriate mechanisms and governance structures to uphold and protect these rights.
	
1.	
Protection of Women Against Sexual Harassment (POSH): In accordance with legal requirements, the company has 
implemented a robust POSH Policy and constituted Internal Complaints Committees (ICCs) at the Registered Office and 
across regional offices. These committees are specifically tasked with handling complaints of sexual harassment in a 
prompt, confidential, and effective manner, ensuring a safe and respectful workplace for all employees.
	
2.	
Redressal of Employee Grievances: The company has also instituted a Group-level Employee Grievance Redressal 
Committee under its Redressal of Employee Grievance Policy. This committee serves as a dedicated focal point to 
address workplace-related concerns, including those with potential human rights implications, through a structured and 
transparent process.
	
These committees act as focal points to address any adverse human rights impacts the business may cause or contribute to. 
They reflect Manappuram Finance Limited’s commitment to fostering an equitable, ethical, and compliant work environment 
aligned with core human rights principles.
5. 	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Manappuram Finance Limited has established dedicated internal mechanisms to address human rights-related grievances and 
ensure a fair, safe, and compliant workplace environment.
	
1.	
POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) Complaint Process: In accordance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the company has constituted Internal Complaints Committees 
(ICCs) at its Registered Office and across regions. Any aggrieved woman can file a written complaint with the ICC or via email 
at icc@manappuram.com within three months of the incident, which may be extended under justifiable circumstances. 
The ICC conducts conciliation and, if required, inquiry proceedings with quasi-judicial authority. Based on the findings, the 
ICC submits recommendations to management, which are acted upon with confidentiality and diligence. The mechanism 
allows for an appeal within ninety days of the decision.
	
2.	
Employee Grievance Redressal Mechanism: We have implemented a structured Employee Grievance Redressal Policy. 
Employees are encouraged to first raise their concerns with their immediate supervisors. If unresolved, grievances can 
be escalated to the HR Grievance Officer via the internal DotNet module. All grievances are categorised, investigated, 
and addressed in a time-bound manner. Escalation protocols ensure that unresolved issues are referred to higher-level 
committees for appropriate redressal. Feedback mechanisms and review processes support continuous improvement and 
transparency.
	
These mechanisms demonstrate the company’s commitment to respecting and upholding human rights and ensuring that 
concerns are addressed promptly, confidentially, and fairly across the organisation.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
97
6. 	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY-2025
FY-2024
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
5
0
2
0
Discrimination at 
workplace
0
0
0
0
Child Labour
0
0
0
0
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour
0
0
0
0
Wages
0
0
0
0
Other human rights 
related issues
0
0
0
0
7. 	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in 
the following format:
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
5
2
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0.06%
0.03%
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
1
8. 	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
Manappuram Finance Limited is committed to creating a workplace where employees feel safe and empowered to raise concerns 
without fear of retaliation. To prevent adverse consequences to complainants in cases of discrimination and harassment, the 
company enforces strict confidentiality and protection measures:
	
1.	
The identity and details of the aggrieved enployee, respondent, and any witnesses.
	
2.	
The contents of the complaint and all records of the conciliation and inquiry proceedings.
	
3.	
Any actions taken by the employer based on the IC’s recommendations.
	
Disclosure of this information to the public, press, or media is strictly prohibited to safeguard the complainant’s privacy and 
dignity. Information regarding justice delivered may be shared in anonymised form, ensuring that identities are not revealed. 
Any breach of confidentiality by committee members, parties involved, or anyone handling the case is considered a serious 
violation and invites disciplinary action under the applicable service rules.
	
These protections ensure that complainants are not subjected to retaliation, victimisation, or reputational harm, thereby 
reinforcing our commitment to a respectful and equitable workplace.
9. 	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
No. Human rights requirements currently do not form part of the business agreements and contracts, but we encourage our 
value chain to ensure compliance with human rights requirements.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
98
10. 	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
0%
Forced/involuntary labour
0%
Sexual harassment
0%
Discrimination at workplace
0%
Wages
0%
Others - please specify
-
	
Note: - At Manappuram Finance Limited, we expect and encourage all employees to uphold and respect human rights values 
and principles in their conduct. To address human rights concerns effectively, we have established dedicated policies that outline 
our commitment to human rights. We have also implemented adequate channels for employees and stakeholders to report 
any human rights grievances. All complaints received are addressed by the designated grievance committee, which ensures 
thorough investigation and timely resolution in accordance with our policies and procedures.
11. 	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments 
at Question 9 above.
	
Not Applicable.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, while no business process has been modified as a direct result of addressing human rights 
grievances to date, we remain committed to ensuring that any concerns related to human rights are effectively reported and 
addressed. We have established multiple channels for reporting human rights grievances, and all complaints received are 
reviewed by the designated committee. Appropriate actions are taken to address these concerns promptly, reinforcing our 
commitment to upholding human rights across our operations.
2. 	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Not Applicable.
3. 	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
No. We acknowledge that our premises/offices are not currently fully accessible to differently abled visitors in accordance with 
the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
4. 	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
	
Not Applicable.
5. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments 
at Question 4 above.
	
Not Applicable.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
99
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Units
FY-2025
FY-2024
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
Gigajoule (GJ)
111.36
228.31
Total fuel consumption (B)
Gigajoule (GJ)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
Gigajoule (GJ)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
Gigajoule (GJ)
111.36
228.31
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
Gigajoule (GJ)
71430 .44 
64985 .23 
Total fuel consumption (E)
Gigajoule (GJ)
1803 .19 
1955 .35 
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
Gigajoule (GJ)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+E+F)
Gigajoule (GJ)
73233 .63 
66940 .58 
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
Gigajoule (GJ)
73344 .99 
67168 .90 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy 
consumed / Revenue from operations)
Gigajoule (GJ)/ 
Crore
10 .62 
11 .52 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
Gigajoule (GJ)/ 
Million
21 .94 
26 .36 
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
-
-
2. 	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade 
(PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. 
In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
No.
3. 	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY-2025
FY-2024
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
21000 KL
16262.5 KL
(iii) Third party water
601.70 KL
337.36 KL
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
21601.70
16599.86 KL
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
0 KL
0 KL
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water consumption / Revenue from 
operations)
3.13 KL/Crore
2.84 KL/Crore
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
6.46 KL/ Million
6.51 KL/ Million
Water intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: The water withdrawal data provided pertains to drinking water and groundwater. Data from third-party water sources at 
branches is not included.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
100
4. 	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY-2025
FY-2024
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 	 Surface water
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii) 	 Groundwater
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii) 	Third party water
	
- No treatment
21601.70 KL
16599.86 KL
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv) 	Seawater / desalinated water
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v) 	 Others
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
21601.70 KL
16599.86 KL
	
Note: The water discharge data provided pertains to drinking water and groundwater. Data from third-party water sources at 
branches is not included.
5: 	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
	
No.
6: 	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
7: 	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total Scope 1 Emissions
TCO2e
128.07
138.88
Total Scope 2 Emissions
TCO2e
14424.98
12924.84
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from 
operations)
TCO2e/ 
Crore
2.11
2.24
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
TCO2e/ 
Million
4.35
5.12
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of physical 
output
-
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
101
8: 	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
Manappuram Finance Limited is dedicated to reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions through multiple strategic initiatives:
	
1.	
Solar Electrification: We are implementing solar systems at our head and branch offices to reduce reliance on purchased 
electricity. In FY 2024-25, we achieved an 18% increase in solar electricity production compared to FY 2022-23, reflecting 
our commitment to expanding renewable energy use.
	
2.	
Electric Vehicle Fleet: : We are actively transitioning our vehicle fleet to electric vehicles (EVs), which resulted in an 
estimated reduction of 1,923 KgCO2e emissions during the reporting year.
	
3.	
Employee Green Vehicle Scheme: To encourage sustainable commuting, we offer reimbursements to employees 
purchasing new electric two-wheelers or cars under our Green Vehicle Scheme. This initiative reduces employees’ travel 
emissions, supports clean mobility, and reinforces our position as a responsible employer.
	
Together, these efforts demonstrate our strong commitment to environmental sustainability and our goal to mitigate climate 
change impacts across our operations and workforce.
9:	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY-2025
FY-2024
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0.66
1.462
E-waste (B)
0
0
Bio-medical waste (C)
0
0
Construction and demolition waste (D)
1.04
0
Battery waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
0
0
Other Non- hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up 
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
1.97
0
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)
3.68
1.462
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue 
from operations)
0.0005 
MT/ Crore
0.0002 
MT/ Crore
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for 
PPP)
0.0011 
MT/ Million
0.0005 
MT/ Million
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Waste intensity (optional) the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Recycled
-
-
Re-used
-
-
Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of 
disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Incineration
-
-
Landfilling
-
-
Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
-
-
	
Note: The waste data provided pertains solely to the head office of Manappuram Finance Limited.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
102
10: 	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we prioritise sustainable waste management and responsible chemical usage across our 
operations. Our waste management practices include:
	
	
Plastic Waste Management: Plastic waste generated at our offices is collected and sent to accredited third-party recyclers 
to ensure environmentally responsible recycling and disposal.
	
	
E-waste Management: We follow stringent protocols for e-waste disposal. Prior to disposal, all hard drives are securely 
removed to protect data privacy, and the e-waste is handed over to authorised third-party recyclers for safe processing 
and disposal in compliance with applicable regulations.
	
	
Septic Waste Treatment: Our premises are equipped with a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) to treat septic waste efficiently, 
ensuring compliance with environmental norms and preventing contamination of natural water bodies.
	
As a financial services organisation, the use of hazardous or toxic chemicals in our operations is minimal. However, we remain 
committed to minimising any potential risks through strict procurement controls and ensuring safe disposal practices wherever 
applicable.
11: 	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere 
reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances 
are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
12: 	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year:
	
Not Applicable.
13: 	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
	
Yes
Leadership Indicators
1: 	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): For each facility / plant located in areas of 
water stress, provide the following information: (i) Name of the area (ii) Nature of operations (iii) Water withdrawal, consumption 
and discharge in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
2. 	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
3: 	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of 
significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
	
Not Applicable.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
103
4. 	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or 
reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome 
of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr No
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may 
be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Adoption of 
Renewable 
Energy
Implementation of solar electrification at head 
office locations.
Achieved 31 MWh of renewable energy 
consumption, reducing dependence on 
conventional energy sources.
2
Energy 
Efficiency 
Measures
Continuous monitoring and optimisation of 
energy use within operations.
Achieved a 7.82% reduction in energy intensity 
per unit of revenue, enhancing operational 
efficiency.
3
Emission 
Reduction 
Initiatives
Implementation of energy efficiency 
improvements and clean energy usage through 
solar panel installation and adoption of electric 
vehicles.
Achieved a 5.96% reduction in Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover, 
contributing to decarbonisation efforts.
4
Transition 
to Electric 
Vehicles
Phasing out of fossil fuel vehicles and 
transitioning to electric vehicles within the 
operational fleet.
Electric vehicles travelled 96,459 kilometers, 
resulting in an estimated 11,659 kgCO₂e 
emissions savings.
5. 	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Yes, Manappuram Finance Limited (MAFIL) has established a robust Business Continuity and Disaster Management Plan that 
encompasses critical processes across various departments. These include Gold Loan Sales & Collection, Branch Operations, IT, 
Accounts & Finance, E Security, and other loan departments at our head office, corporate office, and field locations. The policy 
mandates compliance for all personnel to mitigate operational risks, protect assets, and uphold our corporate reputation during 
disruptions. A dedicated BCM Steering Committee oversees strategic aspects and ensures policy adherence. A BC Manager 
coordinates BCM activities, including plan development, testing, and reporting. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) owners within 
each service area oversee implementation, supported by BC Champions and support functions to facilitate planning, execution, 
and continuous improvement. The BCM Steering Committee, comprising management representatives, conducts annual reviews 
and updates the policy as needed to adapt to significant changes or emerging risks.
6. 	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Not Applicable.
7. 	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts.
	
Not Applicable.
8. 	
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:
	
a. 	
By the listed entity
	
b. 	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners
	
	
Not Applicable.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
104
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1. 	
a. 	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
2
	
b. 	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
1
Finance Industry Development Council
National
2
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry
National
	
2. 	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the entity, based on 
adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
	
No incidents of Anti-competitive conduct.
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
	
Not Applicable.
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Name and brief details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency (Yes 
/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant 
Web link
Promotion of Healthcare – Ambulance Project 
Manappuram Finance Limited’s ambulance initiative 
comprises a fleet of seven vehicles serving the 
healthcare needs of the Thrissur and Kochi districts. 
Of these, five are specialised NICU-PICU ambulances, 
specifically designated for the transportation of 
infants and children requiring critical care. These 
ambulances are equipped with advanced medical 
equipment and staffed by trained medical personnel 
to address the unique needs of paediatric patients. 
The fleet also includes one ICCU ambulance, 
dedicated to adult critical care transport. Additionally, 
a non-ICU ambulance is available for non-critical 
medical transfers, such as routine hospital transfers 
or emergencies that do not require intensive care 
support during transit. The first ambulance was 
acquired in 2016, while the major expansion of 
the fleet took place in 2021, with the acquisition of 
five new ambulances. This significant investment 
was a direct response to MAFIL’s commitment to 
strengthening emergency medical services in the 
region.
-
-
Yes
No
-
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
105
Name and brief details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency (Yes 
/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant 
Web link
Promotion of Healthcare – 
Development 
of 
Gym, Fitness, Yoga, Swimming Pool, and Mahima 
Counselling Centre  Mahima Counselling Centre: 
The Mahima Centre adopts a holistic approach 
to addressing psychological, developmental, and 
educational challenges that individuals encounter at 
various life stages. Located in Valappad, Thrissur—a 
coastal fishing hamlet where a significant portion of the 
population belongs to marginalised communities—
the centre offers a wide range of services tailored 
to client needs. These include support for children 
with speech delays, career guidance for youth, 
and mental health counselling for adults, all aimed 
at empowering individuals through customised, 
empathetic care.  Gym: The premium gym facility in 
Valappad offers a high-quality fitness experience 
supported by professional instructors and state-of-
the-art branded fitness equipment. Designed to serve 
individuals across different fitness levels and goals, 
the gym provides personalised training programs 
that begin with individualised assessments. Monthly 
fitness plans, regular progress evaluations, spacious 
relaxation lounges, shower facilities, and steam rooms 
enhance the experience, ensuring a comprehensive 
wellness environment.  Aquatic Complex: Situated 
in Valappad, the Manappuram Aquatic Complex 
serves as a regional hub for swimming activities. The 
main pool measures 25 meters in length, 12 meters 
in width, and 5 feet in depth, offering ample space 
for varied aquatic exercises. Certified international 
trainers conduct coaching sessions for all age 
groups, including specially designed programs for 
differently abled swimmers. Operating from 6:00 AM 
to 9:00 PM, the facility includes adequate parking and 
well-maintained hygienic amenities.  Yoga Centre: 
Manappuram Yoga Centres, located in Thrissur and 
Valappad, offer inclusive yoga classes and workshops 
for individuals of all age groups and skill levels. With 
an emphasis on physical, mental, and spiritual well-
being, the centres foster a supportive environment for 
learning and practicing yoga. Certified instructors lead 
sessions in multiple yoga disciplines including Hatha 
Yoga, Ashtanga Yoga, Vinyasa Yoga, and Pranayama, 
ensuring personalised guidance and promoting the 
transformative benefits of yoga practice.  Badminton 
Court: Established in 2022 in Painoor, Valappad, 
the badminton court provides a dedicated space 
for practice and training. It accommodates a range 
of skill levels with tailored coaching programs for 
beginners, intermediates, and adults. Both group 
and individualised sessions are available, promoting 
accessibility and skill development. The court 
operates from 6:00 AM to 9:00 PM and offers ample 
parking along with hygienic facilities, enhancing 
convenience and community engagement.
-
-
Yes
No
-
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
106
Name and brief details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency (Yes 
/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant 
Web link
Promotion of Healthcare – Expansion of Ma Care 
Diagnostics Ma Care is a chain of polyclinics in Kerala 
dedicated to delivering high-quality radiology and 
laboratory services. Equipped with state-of-the-
art technologies, Ma Care ensures seamless and 
modern healthcare delivery. The network comprises 
14 departments offering both speciality and super-
speciality services, enabling patients to access walk-
in consultations, online video consultations, and an 
online pharmacy. Ma Care’s services are available 
across the Thrissur and Kochi districts, effectively 
catering to a diverse population.
-
-
Yes
No
-
Promotion of Quality Education – Mukundapuram 
and MaGeet Schools Manappuram Finance Limited’s 
investment in institutions such as MPS (Manappuram 
Public School) and MaGeet reflects the organisation’s 
commitment to providing quality education and 
promoting holistic development within the rural 
communities it serves. By directing resources toward 
educational initiatives, MAFIL sought to address the 
critical need for accessible, high-quality schooling 
in regions like Valappad and Thrissur. Through MPS 
and MaGeet, the company aimed to deliver a well-
rounded educational experience that extends beyond 
academic achievement, nurturing the intellectual, 
emotional, and social development of students.
-
-
Yes
No
-
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
107
Name and brief details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency (Yes 
/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant 
Web link
Promotion of Quality Education – Skilling for Students: 
MASKILL, MAIAM, and Skilling Projects India, with 
its rapidly growing economy and burgeoning youth 
population, stands at a critical juncture where skilling 
initiatives are essential for sustainable development. 
The nation’s demographic advantage—marked by 
a large working-age population—can serve as a 
powerful asset if appropriately harnessed. However, 
a considerable portion of this workforce remains 
unskilled or under-skilled, which poses a challenge 
to economic growth and global competitiveness. 
Skilling initiatives are vital to bridging this gap 
by equipping individuals with industry-relevant 
competencies across sectors such as technology, 
manufacturing, and services. Strategic investment 
in skill development can enhance employability, 
alleviate poverty, and enable youth to contribute 
meaningfully to national progress.  Recognising the 
urgent need for skill development, Manappuram 
Finance Limited has made significant investments 
through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
initiatives, particularly in Valappad and the rural 
regions of Coimbatore and Palakkad. These efforts 
support three major projects designed to boost 
vocational skills and improve employment outcomes. 
One of the initiatives, conducted in collaboration with 
the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya 
Yojana (DDU-GKY), delivers market-led training for 
rural youth to enhance their employability. The 
MAIAM project is focused on automotive skilling, 
catering to the increasing demand for skilled 
professionals in the automotive industry. The 
MASKILL project concentrates on nursing education, 
training individuals to meet the critical and growing 
need for qualified healthcare professionals.
-
-
Yes
No
-
Promotion of Quality Education – Student Coaching 
for Higher Education: CA/Entrance Established in 
2013, the Manappuram Academy of Professional 
Education (Ma Campus) is committed to providing 
coaching classes for CA-Foundation, CA-Intermediate 
(CA-Inter), CA-Final, and CMA courses. These 
programs are currently offered at the Valappad 
and Thrissur centers.  In addition, the Manappuram 
Academy for Entrance Coaching provides structured 
coaching for competitive examinations such as NEET, 
AIIMS, JIPMER, IIT, NIT, IIIT, and other prestigious 
entrance exams. This initiative supports students 
aspiring to pursue professional courses in medical 
and engineering disciplines, as well as degrees in pure 
and applied sciences offered by renowned institutions 
including IISc, IISER, and NISER. 
-
-
Yes
No
-
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
108
2. 	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, 
in the following format:
	
Not Applicable.
3. 	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we are committed to ensuring the well-being of the communities we serve by maintaining 
effective grievance redressal mechanisms. Community members can report grievances through multiple accessible channels:
	
1.	
In-person reporting: Community members can directly visit our office locations, where trained staff address their concerns 
promptly and efficiently.
	
2.	
Community outreach teams: Our dedicated teams engage with local communities during regular visits to identify and 
collect grievances for resolution.
	
3.	
Digital platforms: Grievances can be reported through our official social media channels, which are actively monitored to 
ensure timely response and action.
	
4.	
Customer relations teams: Specialised teams handle grievances received through designated contact points to ensure 
swift and satisfactory resolution.
	
5.	
Toll-free helpline: We provide an easily accessible toll-free number for reporting grievances, with a dedicated team 
prioritising and addressing these concerns efficiently.
	
All grievances received through these channels are thoroughly investigated, and appropriate actions are taken to resolve them 
in a fair, transparent, and timely manner. We value community feedback and remain committed to continuously enhancing our 
services to meet their expectations.
4: 	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY-2025
FY-2024
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
15.81%
13.62%
Directly from within india
51.15%
43.68%
5: 	
Job creation in smaller towns  Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost:
Location
FY-2025
FY-2024
Rural
26.32%
25.66%
Semi-urban
25.72%
24.77%
Urban
31.95%
32.57%
Metropolitan
16.01%
17.00%
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: 
Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
	
Not Applicable.
2. 	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 
by government bodies:
	
Not Applicable since Manappuram Finance has not undertaken CSR projects in any designated aspirational districts.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
109
3. 	
(a) 	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalised /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No. We do not have any preferential procurement policy for suppliers.
3. 	
(b) 	 From which marginalised /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not Applicable.
3. 	
( c) 	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not Applicable.
4. 	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
	
Not Applicable.
5. 	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
	
Not Applicable.
6. 	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. No
CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefitted from CSR 
Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalised groups
1
Macare diagnostics
124075
100%
2
Ambulance Service
2581
61.1%
3
Gym, badminton, yoga and Mahima Swimming pool
3010
100%
4
Donations for individuals having ailment etc.
185
100%
5
Mukundapuram and Mageet Schools
1566
85%
6
Skilling for students- MASkill/MA IAM/DDUGKY
369
95%
7
Students coaching for higher education- CA/entrance 
(Macampus and Maacademy)
902
85%
8
Supporting various educational institutions and organisations, 
including Mobile for students etc
-
-
9
Community development programs/Housing projects support
45
100%
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, recognise that delivering excellent customer service is essential not only for retaining 
customers but also for strengthening our brand reputation in a competitive and evolving financial landscape. The Customer 
Service Cell (CSC) is responsible for implementing a robust grievance redressal mechanism that plays a vital role in our growth 
and operational excellence. To improve our responsiveness, we conduct root cause analyses to understand the nature and origin 
of customer complaints and implement corrective measures accordingly. Compliance with regulatory requirements remains a 
top priority in our grievance management approach. Our grievance redressal mechanism includes the following components:
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
110
	
1.	
Complaint Registration: Complaints can be registered through multiple channels including our Call Center, Branch Offices, 
Company Website, QR codes, Feedback Links, Telephone, In-person visits, and by Post. Once received, complaints are 
logged into our internal system and routed to the Customer Service Cell for resolution.
	
2.	
Immediate Action: The CSC team provides prompt assistance and ensures that customer concerns are addressed efficiently. 
All team members are trained to deliver a seamless, personalised experience that reflects our service standards.
	
3.	
Customer Feedback Monitoring: We continuously monitor and analyze customer feedback to identify areas for improvement. 
Complaints are escalated to relevant departments as needed to ensure timely resolution, and clear performance metrics 
are established to track resolution effectiveness.
	
We are committed to resolving all complaints within a maximum of 20 days from the date of receipt. Regular reports are 
submitted to senior management, and complaint data is analyzed to gain deeper insights into customer behavior, preferences, 
and service expectations. Further details are available in our policy document titled “Mechanism for Dealing with Customer 
Complaints & Redressal” on our official policy page.
2. 	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
	
Not Applicable
3. 	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY-2025
Remarks
FY-2024
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
0
0
-
0
0
-
Advertising
0
0
-
0
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of essential 
services
2649
50
-
816
24
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other
12177
306
-
7231
31
-
4. 	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
	
Not Applicable.
5. 	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a 
web-link of the policy.
	
Yes, we have a comprehensive Data Privacy Policy in place to address cybersecurity and risks related to data privacy. The policy 
is available on our website and can be accessed via the following link: https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes.
6. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; 
cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory 
authorities on safety of products / services.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical conduct, customer protection, and 
regulatory compliance. Corrective actions are taken promptly and systematically to address any issues arising in the areas 
of advertising, delivery of essential services, cybersecurity, data privacy, or regulatory observations. Key corrective measures 
implemented include:
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
111
	
1.	
Employee Training: We conduct regular training sessions to ensure employees are well-informed about regulatory 
requirements, responsible advertising practices, secure service delivery, and data privacy protocols. In instances of 
non-compliance, appropriate warnings are issued, and retraining is provided to reinforce awareness and prevent recurrence.
	
2.	
Disciplinary Actions: For serious violations or repeated incidents, internal disciplinary measures are enforced. These may 
include transfer, suspension, demotion, or other actions deemed necessary based on the severity of the issue.
	
These measures reflect our proactive approach to continuous improvement in service quality, safeguarding customer data, and 
ensuring full compliance with applicable regulatory standards. As of the reporting period, there have been no product recalls, 
and no penalties have been imposed by regulatory authorities concerning the safety of our services.
7: 	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches
	
a.: 	
Number of instances of data breaches
	
	
There was no instance of data breaches in the reporting period.
	
b.: 	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
	
Not Applicable.
	
c.: 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
	
Not Applicable.
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available).
	
Currently, under the name of Manappuram Finance Limited, we are officially listed on various social media platforms such as 
Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube, and Sharechat. We also have an official website. We regularly advertise our 
gold loan products through these channels.
	
Below are the URLs:
	
•	
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ManappuramFinanceLimitedMAFIL
	
•	
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/manappuramofficial/?igsh=YXU3OGt0eHpuOW50
	
•	
Twitter: https://x.com/ManappuramMAFIL
	
•	
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/manappuram-finance-limited/
	
•	
Website: https://www.manappuram.com/
	
•	
Sharechat: https://sharechat.com/profile/manappuramfinance?d=n
	
•	
YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@ManappuramFinanceLimited
2. 	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, we prioritise customer education and awareness to ensure the safe and responsible usage 
of our financial products and services. We recognise that well-informed customers are better equipped to make responsible 
financial decisions, avoid risks, and contribute to a more transparent and ethical financial environment. Our key initiatives in this 
regard include:
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
112
	
1.	
Customer Consent Forms: We obtain signed consent forms from all customers at the time of availing services, ensuring 
they are fully informed about the nature, terms, and implications of the products being offered.
	
2.	
Product Information Updates: We provide regular updates to customers regarding the features and changes to our 
products and services, keeping them informed and empowered.
	
3.	
Website and Social Media Engagement: Our official website and social media channels are actively used to educate 
customers about responsible product usage, digital safety, and fraud prevention.
	
4.	
Branch-Level Customer Meetings: Monthly meetings are conducted at branch locations by regional managers. 
These sessions cover key topics such as product features, service standards, and resolution of customer complaints and 
suggestions.
	
5.	
Product Display Information: All branch offices display comprehensive and clearly visible product information, allowing 
customers to access relevant details before making financial decisions.
	
6.	
Trained Frontline Staff: Our branch staff are trained to provide accurate, clear, and transparent information on product 
features, repayment terms, and digital usage protocols. Customers are guided through the process to ensure they 
understand their financial commitments and responsibilities.
	
Through these initiatives, Manappuram Finance Limited actively promotes consumer protection, enhances service transparency, 
and encourages responsible financial behavior across its customer base.
3. 	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
Manappuram Finance Limited has established robust communication protocols to ensure that customers are promptly informed 
of any potential disruptions or discontinuation of essential services. In the event of service interruptions—such as application 
issues or server downtime—SMS alerts are sent directly to customers’ registered mobile numbers. These notifications provide 
timely updates, enabling customers to stay informed and plan accordingly. This proactive communication mechanism reinforces 
our commitment to transparency, operational reliability, and customer trust.
4. 	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as 
a whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. At Manappuram Finance Limited, we place strong emphasis on customer interests and financial literacy. Accordingly, we 
provide product information that goes beyond the minimum requirements mandated by local laws. Our communication is 
designed to be clear, easily understandable, and readily accessible to all customers. These efforts are aligned with our broader 
initiatives under Principle 9 Leadership Indicator 2, to promote transparency, responsible usage, and informed decision-making.
	
Yes. We actively conduct consumer satisfaction surveys across various touchpoints to evaluate service quality and identify 
improvement areas. Key feedback mechanisms include: Post-application feedback surveys sent via our mobile application 
Feedback prompts during the repayment process QR codes displayed at branch locations, allowing customers to submit 
feedback directly Additional feedback collection through our call center services These initiatives enable us to continually assess 
and enhance customer experience across our major products, services, and key operational locations.
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
113
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors of Manappuram Finance Limited have pleasure in presenting before you, the Thirty Third Annual Report of the 
Company together with the Audited Consolidated and Standalone Financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
1.	
CORPORATE OVERVIEW:
	
Manappuram Finance Limited (the “Company”) was incorporated as Manappuram General Finance and Leasing Limited on July 15, 
1992 at Thrissur, Kerala, under the Companies Act, 1956 (“the Act”) with corporate identity number L65910KL1992PLC006623 
as a public limited company and obtained a certificate for commencement of business dated July 31, 1992. The name of the 
Company was changed to Manappuram Finance Limited pursuant to a fresh certificate of incorporation dated June 22, 2011. 
Further, the Company is registered as a as Non-Deposit Taking Systematically Important (“NDSI”) Non-Banking Financial 
Company in Middle Layer (“NBFC-ML”) under Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company - Scale Based Regulation) 
Directions, 2023 (“RBI SBR Direction”) and within the meaning of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, as amended (the “RBI 
Act”). The Company provides diverse array of products and services, meticulously designed to meet the varied financial needs 
of our esteemed clientele from gold loans to MSME financing, housing to vehicle loans, and insurance, our offerings reflect our 
commitment to comprehensive financial solutions.
2.	
FINANCIAL SUMMARY/ HIGHLIGHTS AND STATE OF AFFAIRS:
	
As mandated by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, your company has prepared the financial statements (both standalone and 
consolidated) for the year ended March 31, 2025 as per Indian Accounting Standard (‘IND AS’) notified under Section 133 of 
the Act read with notification no. G.S.R. 111(E) dated 16.02.2015 as amended from time to time.
	
The Standalone and Consolidated financial performance of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 is 
summarised below:
` in million
Description
Standalone
Consolidated
 
 2024-25 
2023-24
 2024-25 
2023-24
Gross Income
69,144.73
58,546.49
1,00,749.42
89,200.89
Total Expenditure
45,386.43
36,330.23
84,093.12
59,605.73
Profit Before Tax
23,956.07
22,216.26
16,656.31
29,595.16
Provision for Taxes/ Deferred tax
6,123.38
5,638.51
4,617.64
7,620.22
PAT before comprehensive income
17,832.68
16,577.75
12,038.66
21,974.95
Other Comprehensive Income
-2.42
-95.90
37.15
-127.45
Minority interest
-
-
-121.96
87.54
PAT including comprehensive income
17,830.26
16,481.85
12,075.81
21,847.49
Amount available for appropriations (Retained Earnings-
Opening balance)
60,652.17
50,183.14
69,995.80
55,160.93
Appropriations:
Profit for the year
17,832.68
16,577.75
12,175.06
22,049.99
Transfer to statutory Reserve
-3,566.54
-3,315.55
-3,612.09
-4271.96
Interim Dividend on Equity share
-3,385.74
-2,793.18
-3,385.74
-2943.18
Tax on Dividend
-
-
-
-
Adjustment on account of IND AS (Impairment Reserve)
-
-
-
-
Loss on acquisition
-
-
-
-
Utilised during the year
-
-
-
-
Share issue expenses
-
-
-7.50
-
Balance carried forward to next year (Closing Balance)
71,532.57
60,652.16
75,165.53
69,995.80
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
114
3.	
DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
	
Considering robust growth and performance during the 
fiscal year 2024-25, Board of directors had declared four 
interim dividends of ` 1 each per equity share aggregating 
` 4 per equity share (200%) in its Board Meeting held 
on May 24, 2024, August 13, 2024, November 05, 2024, 
and February 13, 2025 respectively. The dividend payout 
amounted to ` 3,385.74 Million (` 3.3 per equity share 
amounting to ` 2793.18 Million for the year ended 
March 31, 2024.)
	
The Dividend distribution policy containing the 
requirements mentioned in Regulation 43A of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”) is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
4.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
	
Your Board of Directors has transferred an amount of 
` 116,235.5 million to the statutory reserve maintained 
under Section 45 IC of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Post transfer of profits to reserves, your Board proposes to 
retain ` 71,537.97 million in the Retained Earnings.
	
Pursuant to the notification issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs on August 16, 2019 in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 469 of 
the Act, the Central Government amended the Companies 
(Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014. In the 
principal rules, in rule 18, for sub-rule (7), the limits with 
respect to adequacy of Debenture Redemption Reserve 
and investment or deposits for listed companies (other 
than All India Financial Institutions and Banking Companies 
as specified in sub-clause (i)), Debenture Redemption 
Reserve is not required to maintain in case of public issue 
of debentures as well as privately placed debentures for 
NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India under section 
45-IA of the RBI Act.
5.	
COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE & STATE OF AFFAIRS
	
During the financial year under review, the NBFC segment 
performed substantially well towards India’s economic 
growth with their assets and financial infusion especially 
in rural and semi urban areas by providing access to credit 
and financial services.
	
Standalone Performance
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2025, your 
company recorded a resilient and stable financial 
performance amidst a dynamic macroeconomic 
environment. The total income for the year stood at 
` 69,144.72 million, representing a growth of 18.10% 
over the previous year’s income of ` 58,546.49 million. 
This increase was primarily driven by a strong growth 
in interest income, which rose to ` 68,707.13 million (FY 
2023–24: ` 57,544.88 million), supported by a sustained 
expansion in the lending portfolio.
	
Profit before tax for the year amounted to ` 23,956.06 
million, reflecting a year-on-year increase of 7.83% 
(FY 2023–24: ` 22,216.26 million). The Company also 
recognised an exceptional gain of ` 197.77 million during 
the year. After accounting for tax expenses amounting 
to ` 6,123.38 million, the net profit for the year stood at 
` 17,832.67 million, as against ` 16,577.75 million in the 
previous financial year, marking a 7.57% growth.
	
Total expenses for the year increased to ` 45,386.43 million 
(FY 2023–24: ` 36,330.23 million), largely attributable to 
higher finance costs, increased provisions on financial 
instruments, and higher employee benefit expenses in 
line with the Company’s growth strategy and business 
expansion. The Earnings Per Share (EPS) for the year stood 
at ` 21.07 (Basic and Diluted), compared to ` 19.59 in the 
previous year.
	
The Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood 
at ` 17,830.25 million, against ` 16,481.85 million in 
FY 2023–24.
	
Overall, the Company delivered a robust performance with 
healthy growth in key income parameters while maintaining 
prudent provisioning and cost management practices. 
The Board remains committed to further strengthening the 
Company’s financial position and driving sustainable value 
creation for all stakeholders.
	
Consolidated Performance
	
The Company’s consolidated AUM grew by 2.29% during 
the year owing to rapid growth in the housing ﬁnance 
(20.8%), vehicle ﬁnance (16.1%) AUMs and a reduction in 
microﬁnance (34.1%) AUM. Gold loan AUMs grew 18.7% 
during the year.
	
For the financial year ended 31st March 2025, the Company 
recorded a total income of ` 1,00,408.83 million, compared 
to ` 89,200.89 million in the previous year. Revenue from 
operations increased to ` 1,00,066.94 million, primarily 
driven by higher interest income of ` 97,656.46 million.
	
Total expenses rose to ` 83,752.52 million from ` 59,605.71 
million, mainly due to higher impairment provisions and 
finance costs. Consequently, profit before tax stood at 
` 16,656.31 million, and profit after tax was ` 12,038.67 
million, as against ` 21,974.95 million in the previous year. 
The Company reported a total comprehensive income of 
` 12,075.83 million, with earnings per share (basic and 
diluted) at ` 14.22, compared to ` 25.96 in the previous year.
	
The audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Company prepared in accordance with the Ind AS to 
comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies 
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
115
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the relevant provisions of the 
Act, is provided
	
in the Annual Report. The audited financial statements of subsidiary 
companies are available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.manappuram.com/index.php/annual-reports
	
The Company also implemented multiple campaigns 
to increase awareness among the customers about the 
benefits of digital transactions. Through its local marketing 
initiatives, the Company covered individuals belonging to 
the masses segment and concentrated on getting close 
and personally relevant to understand the Financial needs 
of the people in these sections. Consistent review and 
monitoring at Field level was also done to ensure business 
propensity.
	
During the year, the Company undertook various employee 
engagement initiatives to motivate them and improve their 
efficiencies. The Company will continue to engage in such 
initiatives in the future to serve its customers better and 
thereby achieve higher growth.
	
For more details on the performance of the Company, 
business segments, risk management framework and 
initiatives, kindly refer Report on Management Discussion 
and Analysis.
6.	
SUBSIDIARIES/ ASSOCIATES/ JOINT VENTURES 
– ITS PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AND STATE 
OF AFFAIRS
6.1.	 State of Affairs
	
Your Company holds 97.60% equity shares of Asirvad Micro 
Finance Limited, 100.00 % equity shares of Manappuram 
Home Finance Limited, 100 % equity shares of Manappuram 
Insurance Brokers Limited and 99.81% of Manappuram 
Comptech and Consultants Limited as on March 31, 2025.
	
6.1.1.	 ASIRVAD MICRO FINANCE LIMITED (AMFL)
	
	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited (AMFL) a non-banking 
finance company (“NBFC”) - microfinance institution 
(“MFI”) offering microfinance loans to low-income 
women, thereby promoting inclusive growth, through 
servicing and empowering an unbanked population 
who are socially and economically underprivileged. 
AMFL commenced operations in 2008, with two 
branches in Tamil Nadu and has grown to become 
an MFI with a pan-India presence. In addition, AMFL 
offers secured Loans against Gold and MSME 
Loans to small business owners and self-employed 
individuals. AMFL is one of the youngest NBFC-MFIs 
with a relatively strong credit rating of CRISIL ‘AA-’ 
which emphasises financial resilience and enables us 
to borrow at competitive costs. Among the MFI Peer 
Group in India, AMFL was the first MFI to be rated 
AA- by CRISIL, highlighting the legacy of financial 
performance. AMFL was also the fastest MFI to 
receive the AA- rating, within a period of three years.
	
6.1.2.	MANAPPURAM HOME FINANCE LIMITED 
(MAHOFIN)
	
	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited (MAHOFIN) 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of Manappuram 
Finance Limited. MAHOFIN commenced operations 
in January 2015, focused on providing affordable 
housing loans tailored to the needs of mid-income 
to low-income individuals. Demonstrating robust 
performance, the housing finance division achieved 
20.81% growth in its AUM in Fiscal 2025, reflecting a 
commendable Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) 
of 24% over the past five years. With a network of 
89 branches spread across 12 states, particularly 
with a significant presence in the southern region, 
MAHOFIN continues to strengthen its loan portfolio. 
Recognising the growing urbanisation and the 
emergence of tier II and tier III cities, MAHOFIN is 
strategically planning to expand its footprint to cover 
nearby states and locations, further enhancing its 
market reach and serving a broader customer base.
	
	
Positioned as a leading provider of affordable 
home finance solutions, our targeted customers 
encompass self-employed individuals from the 
unorganised sector and others who face challenges 
in accessing credit facilities from mainstream financial 
institutions. Our product portfolio comprises two key 
offerings: Home Loans and Loans Against Property. 
Notably, the average ticket size for a Home Loan is 
approximately ` 0.60 million, while for the Loans 
Against Property segment, it stands at about ` 0.61 
million. Through these tailored solutions, we aim to 
empower individuals to fulfil their homeownership 
aspirations and unlock the value of their properties 
while ensuring accessibility and affordability for all 
segments of society.
	
6.1.3.	MANAPPURAM INSURANCE BROKERS LIMITED 
(MAIBRO)
	
	
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited (MAIBRO) 
is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company and 
is a licensed Insurance Broker regulated by the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (IRDAI). MAIBRO commenced its operations 
in the year 2006. As an IRDAI-authorised direct 
insurance broker, MAIBRO specialises in providing a 
comprehensive range of Life and General Insurance 
products portfolio tailored for the retail market (like 
two-wheeler, automobile, health, term, investment 
plans, shopkeeper policies, homeowner’s policies, 
personal accident insurance, critical illness policies, 
travel insurance, and hospital cash policies) 
and has consistently achieved steady growth. 
MAIBRO innovative and technology-driven approach 
earned us a spot among the top 10 insurance broking 
startups of the year 2023. This recognition highlights 
the pivotal role of our groundbreaking digital insurance 
platform in our success. MaSuraksha stands as an 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
116
innovative e-commerce portal operated by MAIBRO, 
embodying our commitment to providing seamless 
and accessible insurance solutions to our valued 
customers. A key driver of our success is MAIBRO’s 
commitment to offering intelligent after-sales support, 
guiding consumers through every step of the insurance 
process. MAIBRO’s online portal facilitates access 
for agents (POSP), enabling them to effectively sell 
diverse policies to clients through a dedicated POSP 
login module. With a dedicated customer service team 
available round-the-clock, MAIBRO ensure a seamless 
customer experience marked by effortless purchase 
journeys, prompt claim support, timely renewals, and 
comprehensive service assistance, all contributing 
significantly to the sustained growth of our company. 
With a widespread network of over 5000+ Point of 
Sales Agents operating nationwide, MAIBRO has 
effectively penetrated insurance products across 
all segments of society. Our commitment to our 
customers is evident in our support during challenging 
times, with a commendable 95% claim settlement rate, 
ensuring peace of mind for families in need.
	
6.1.4.	MANAPPURAM COMPTECH AND CONSULTANTS 
LIMITED
	
	
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited 
(MACOM), a subsidiary of your Company, offers audit, 
taxation, and core IT services, catering to a broad 
spectrum of market needs including digital personal 
loans, loan management, and microfinance solutions. 
During the year, MACOM undertook major technology 
upgrades to enhance efficiency, scalability, and 
customer experience. Fourteen critical applications, 
including Gold Loan modules, were modernised for 
better functionality and cloud readiness. MACOM has 
adopted advanced cloud-native technologies such as 
Pub/Sub, AlloyDB, GKE, and Vault, and introduced a 
low-code platform to accelerate developer onboarding. 
A new suite of AI-powered bots and automation tools 
was also launched, helping reduce operational costs, 
provide 24x7 multilingual customer service, and 
improve customer outreach. Further strengthening 
its security framework, MACOM attained the ISO 
27001:2022 Information Security Management 
Systems Certification.
6.2.	 Performance highlights
	
6.2.1.	Asirvad Microfinance Limited
	
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2025, AMFL 
recorded a turnover of ` 27,054 million as compared 
to the turnover of ` 26,813 million recorded during 
the previous financial year ended March 31, 2024. 
Revenue from operations for the year ended March 31, 
2025, has increased by 0.90 % over the corresponding 
period ended March 31, 2024. The Net profit/(loss) of 
AMFL for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
stood at ` (6387.17) million as against the Net Profit of 
` 4,583 million for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024. The loss before tax for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025, reflects a decline of 230.46 % over 
the corresponding period for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024.
	
6.2.2. Manappuram Home Finance Limited
	
	
 Gross Income of the Company as on 31st March, 2025 
is ` 3139.09 million as compared to ` 2428.05 million 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024, and Profit After 
Tax is ` 227.77 million for the year ended 31st March, 
2025 as compared to ` 199.01 million for the year 
ended 31st March, 2024. AUM of the Company as on 
31st March, 2025 is ` 18238.8 million as compared to 
` 1509.68 million for the year ended 31st March 2024.
	
6.2.3. Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
	
	
 Gross income of the Company for the year ended 
March 31, 2025, stood at ` 702.91 million as 
compared to ` 1041.21 million for the year ended 
March 31, 2024, and Profit After Tax for the year ended 
March 31, 2025, is ` 517.78 million as compared to 
` 732.33 million for the year ended March 31, 2024.
	
6.2.4. Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
	
	
 During FY 2024-25, the company faced operational 
challenges that impacted financial performance. 
An isolated incident involving unauthorised system 
access resulted in certain financial irregularities, 
which the management promptly addressed through 
appropriate legal and investigative measures. 
The company took decisive action by implementing 
enhanced controls. A provision of ` 197.8 million 
was recognised in the financials for the quarter 
ended June 30, 2024, and a Settlement Agreement 
was executed with our client on November 5, 2024. 
Consequently, the company reported a loss of 
` 104.34 million for FY 2024–25, compared to a profit 
of ` 85.83 million in FY 2023–24. Management remains 
committed to strengthening operational safeguards 
and returning to profitability in the coming fiscal year.
	
	
There are no other companies that have become or 
ceased to be Subsidiaries/ Associates/ Joint Ventures 
of the Company during the Financial Year 2024-25. 
There has been no material change in the nature of 
business of subsidiary companies during the financial 
year 2024-25.
	
	
The Board of Directors of your Company has 
formulated a policy on material subsidiary, which is 
displayed on the website of the Company at https://
www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
	
	
As at March 31, 2025, Company has one material 
subsidiary ie., Asirvad Micro Finance Limited.
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
117
7.	
COMPANY OPERATIONS
	
Manappuram Finance Limited (MAFIL), established in 
1949, is one of India’s leading Non-Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFCs), renowned for providing fast, secure, 
and accessible financial services. The Company’s diversified 
portfolio comprises the following key business verticals:
	
Gold Loans: The flagship product of MAFIL, gold loans are 
offered against the security of household gold ornaments. 
The Company has pioneered customer-centric innovations 
such as Online Gold Loans (OGL), supported by robust 
appraisal mechanisms and rigorous risk management 
practices to ensure operational security and efficiency.
	
Vehicle and Equipment Finance: MAFIL offers financing 
solutions for commercial vehicles, two-wheelers, and 
passenger vehicles, with a particular focus on semi-urban 
and rural markets.
	
MSME Loans: This segment caters to small businesses 
and individual entrepreneurs, primarily through secured 
lending products such as loans against property and micro 
home finance, supporting enterprise development at the 
grassroots level.
	
Forex, MTSS and Payments: The Company provides a suite 
of services including foreign exchange, international money 
transfers (under the Money Transfer Service Scheme), and 
digital payment solutions through its MAkash platform.
	
Microfinance: Through its subsidiary, Asirvad Micro Finance 
Limited, MAFIL delivers microcredit to women in low-income 
households, promoting financial inclusion and economic 
empowerment.
	
Housing Finance: Through Manappuram Home Finance Ltd, 
a wholly owned subsidiary, the Company offers affordable 
housing loans, particularly targeting self-employed 
customers in Tier III and Tier IV towns.
	
Insurance Broking: Operated by Manappuram Insurance 
Brokers Limited, a 100% subsidiary, this division distributes 
a broad range of life and general insurance products, 
facilitated by a tech-enabled platform.
	
With a pan-India presence spanning over 5,000 branches, 
Manappuram Finance serves more than 2.5 million 
customers and manages over 59 metric tonnes of 
household gold under safe custody
8.	
SHARE CAPITAL
	
The Company has not made any allotment of equity shares, 
hence there is no change in the paid-up equity share capital 
of the Company. The issued, subscribed, and paid-up Equity 
Share Capital as on March 31, 2025 remains as ` 1,692.87 
million, consisting of 846,434,729 Equity Shares of the face 
value of ` 2 each, fully paid-up.
	
During the year under review, the Company has not issued 
shares with differential voting rights, bonus shares and 
sweat equity shares. The Company has also not carried 
out any buyback of its equity shares during The said period.
8.1.	 Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
	
In order to retain the best available talent, ensure long term 
commitment to the Company, and encourage individual 
ownership, Company has instituted employee stock options 
plans from time to time.
	
However, for the FY 2024-25, the company had not made 
any stock options to its employees.
8.2.	Investor Education and Protection Fund
	
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 
124, 125 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
If any of the Companies Act 2013, read the IEPF Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘IEPF Rules’) (including any 
statutory modification(s) or reenactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force), the amount of dividend remaining 
unclaimed or unpaid for a period of seven years from the 
date of transfer to the unpaid dividend account, is required 
to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, maintained by the 
Central Government.
	
Further, in accordance with Section 124(6) of the Companies 
Act 2013, read with the IEPF Rules, all the shares in respect 
of which dividend has remained unclaimed or unpaid for 
seven consecutive years or more from the date of transfer to 
the unpaid dividend account are required to be transferred 
to the demat Account of the IEPF Authority.
	
8.2.1.	Transfer of Unpaid Dividend to IEPF
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Sec 124 (5) of the 
Companies Act 2013, your Company has transferred 
following unclaimed dividend to Investors Education 
Protection Fund (IEPF). 
Dividend
IEPF Transfer 
Date
Amount 
transferred to 
IEPF (Amount 
in `)
Int-3 2016-2017
06-04-2024
11,75,970
Int-4 2016-2017
31-08-2024
8,61,494
Int-1 2017-2018
10-10-2024
11,19,272
Int-2 2017-2018
04-01-2025
13,03,392
Total Unclaimed amount 
Transferred
44,60,128
	
	
This amount was lying unclaimed/ unpaid with 
the Company for a period of 7 (seven) years after 
declaration of final dividend for the said financial year. 
The details of the unclaimed dividends so transferred 
are available on the website of the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs at www.mca.gov.in.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
118
	
8.2.2.Transfer of shares underlying unpaid dividend to 
IEPF
	
	
During the year your Company had, transferred 64,494 
equity shares of the Company into the demat account 
of the IEPF Authority held with CDSL (DPID/ Client ID: 
12047200 – 13676780) in terms of the provisions of 
Sec 124 (6) of the Companies Act 2013, read with IEPF 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016 as amended from time to time.
	
	
No claim will lie on Company on account of the 
dividend after the dividend is transferred to IEPF.
9.	
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
	
As on March 31, 2024 the Gross Fixed Assets of the 
Company stood at ` 7,312.13 million, with Net Fixed Assets 
at ` 3,597.31 million. During the financial year 2024–25, 
the Company incurred capital additions amounting to 
` 1,451.02 million. Consequently, as on March 31, 2025, the 
Gross Fixed Assets increased to ` 8,610.99 million, while 
the Net Fixed Assets stood at ` 4,095.21 million.
10.	 FUTURE PROSPECTS
	
Manappuram Finance Limited remains committed to 
sustaining its trajectory of diversified growth, underpinned 
by innovation and financial inclusion. The Company’s 
forward-looking strategy is built around the following 
core pillars:
	
Product Diversification: The Company aims to broaden its 
loan portfolio beyond its flagship gold loan offering, with 
increased emphasis on microfinance, housing finance, 
vehicle and equipment finance, MSME lending, and 
personal loans, thereby catering to a wider spectrum of 
customer needs.
	
Technology and Digital Innovation: Manappuram will 
continue to invest in emerging technologies such as AI-driven 
chatbots, optical character recognition (OCR)-based KYC, 
digital lending platforms, e-KYC integration, virtual office 
solutions, and advanced data analytics to enhance credit 
risk assessment, operational efficiency, and personalised 
customer engagement.
	
Geographic Penetration: The Company will focus on 
expanding its footprint in semi-urban and rural markets 
through the establishment of co-located branches, with the 
dual objective of improving accessibility and achieving cost 
efficiency.
	
Operational Efficiency: Strengthening internal capabilities 
through the deployment of digital tools, customer 
relationship management (CRM) systems, and targeted 
employee upskilling initiatives—comprising digital training 
modules and certified external courses—remains a key 
operational focus.
	
Sustainability and Social Impact: Manappuram continues 
to uphold its commitment to corporate social responsibility, 
environmental stewardship, and employee welfare as 
integral components of its long-term strategy for inclusive 
and responsible growth.
	
Through these strategic initiatives, the Company aspires 
to emerge as a trusted, comprehensive financial services 
partner for India’s underbanked and underserved 
populations.
11.	 RESOURCE MOBILIsATION/FUND RAISING
	
The Company, as an Non-Banking Finance Company 
(NBFC), mobilisation of resources at optimal cost and its 
deployment in the most profitable and secured manner 
constitutes most important functions of the Company.
11.1.	 Bank Finance
	
Bank Finance remains an important source of funding 
for your Company. Your Company as at March 31, 2025 
availed various credit facilities from 29 banks, 2 NBFC (Bajaj 
Finance & NABKISAN Finance), Life Insurance Corporation 
(LIC) and International Finance Corporation (IFC) etc. 
Management has been making continuous efforts to 
broaden the resource base of the Company to maintain its 
competitive edge.
	
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
	
As at March 31, 2025, the total borrowings (other than debt 
securities) of the Company stood at ` 208,903.60 million, 
reflecting a growth of 15.85% over the previous year’s 
figure of ` 180,328.51 million. All borrowings have been 
recognised at amortised cost and were fully secured.
	
The increase in borrowings was primarily driven by:
	
	
A rise in Indian rupee term loans from banks, 
which grew to ` 108,771.59 million (FY 2023–24: 
` 88,029.23 million);
	
	
A significant increase in foreign currency term loans 
from banks, amounting to ` 25,424.86 million (FY 
2023–24: ` 12,070.31 million), indicating a strategic 
effort to diversify funding sources;
	
	
A marginal reduction in working capital demand 
loans, which stood at ` 72,169.16 million compared 
to ` 74,190.12 million in the previous year;
	
	
A decline in cash credit/overdraft facilities and 
securitisation borrowings, reflecting optimisation of 
short-term borrowing arrangements.
	
All borrowings were raised within India, including the 
foreign currency loan availed from State Bank of India, 
and were utilised solely for the purposes for which they 
were sanctioned. The Company has not defaulted in 
the repayment of any principal or interest obligations 
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
119
during the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 and the 
preceding year.
	
The above borrowings include the effective interest rate 
(EIR) impact of transaction costs and premium amounts 
associated with the issue of Non-Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs), though those are presented separately under debt 
securities.
11.2.	Non-Convertible Debentures:
	
Your Company has successfully raised ` 4500 million 
through issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures through 
private placement during FY 2024-25.
11.3.	External Commercial Borrowings
	
Your Company borrows 25,424.86 million through its 
External Commercial Borrowing (‘ECB’) Programme. 
These borrowings are governed by RBI guidelines which 
requires entities raising ECB for an average maturity of less 
than 5 years to hedge minimum 70% of its ECB exposure 
(principal and coupon).
	
As part of its overall borrowing strategy, the Company 
has availed foreign currency term loans from banks, 
which are classified as External Commercial Borrowings 
(ECBs) in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India’s 
Master Direction – External Commercial Borrowings, Trade 
Credits and Structured Obligations.As at March 31, 2025, 
the outstanding amount under ECBs stood at ` 25,424.86 
million, as against ` 12,070.31 million as at 31st March 2024. 
These loans have been availed from foreign branches of 
Indian banks, including but not limited to State Bank of India 
(SBI), and are fully secured. All borrowings have been raised 
for permitted end-use purposes under the automatic route 
as defined by RBI.
11.4.	Commercial Paper
	
The Company had issued commercial papers (CPs) in 
the normal course of business to meet its short-term 
funding requirements.
	
These commercial papers are unsecured in nature and 
carry varying maturities ranging from 7 days to 1 year, 
depending on market conditions and liquidity needs.
	
The outstanding CPs as at March 31, 2025 stood at 
` 2,941.43 million, reflecting a decrease from the 
previous year’s balance of ` 8,357.10 million, due to 
reduced short-term borrowings and optimisation of 
funding mix.
	
The Company has not defaulted in the repayment of 
principal or interest (where applicable) on any of the 
commercial papers issued during the reporting period.
	
Mobilisation of funds during the year under review from 
following sources/ instruments are summarised below:
 (` in Million)
Sl. No. Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
1
Term Loans/cash credit from Banks
1,81,065.00
1,64,234.39
2.
Term Loans from Financial Institutions/ Corporates
2,360.92
3,560.85
3
Inter-Corporate Deposit
0
0
4
Non-Convertible Debentures – Institutional
32,373.82
35,982.71
5
External Commercial Borrowings (Loans)
51,664.98
12,070.31
6
Commercial Papers
2,941.43
8,357.10
7
Securitisation Loan
52.81
462.96
	
Your directors are confident that the Company will be able to raise adequate resources for onward lending in line with its 
business plans.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
120
12.	 CREDIT RATING
	
Your Company holds valid credit rating from Brickwork, CRISIL, CARE, S&P Global Ratings and FITCH for Non-Convertible 
Debentures, Short Term and Long-Term Bank Facilities and Commercial Paper as follows:
	
Ratings assigned by credit rating agencies and migration of ratings during the year
Credit rating Agency
Type of Facility
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rating
Rating
Brickwork
Non-Convertible debentures
BWR AA(Stable)
BWR AA(Stable)
CRISIL
Bank Loan Facility Long term
CRISIL AA/Stable
CRISIL AA/Stable
Bank Loan Facility Short term
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL A1+
Non-Convertible Debenture
CRISIL AA/Stable
CRISIL AA/Stable
Commercial Paper
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL A1+
CARE
Bank Loan Facility Long Term
CARE AA Stable
CARE AA Stable
Bank Loan Facility Short Term
CARE A1+
CARE A1+
Non-Convertible Debentures
CARE AA Stable
CARE AA Stable
Commercial Paper
CARE A1+
CARE A1+
	
International Credit Rating
Credit Rating Agency
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rating
Rating
S&P Global Ratings
BB - /Stable
BB - /Stable/ B
FITCH
BB - /Stable
BB - /Stable
13.	 DETAILS OF ADEQUACY OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS AND INTERNAL AUDIT
	
Your Company has put in place, well defined and adequate 
Internal Control System, and Internal Financial Control 
(IFC) mechanism commensurate with size, scale, and 
complexity of its operations to ensure control of entire 
business and assets. The internal audit policy has been 
upgraded as Risk Based Internal Audit Policy based on the 
RBI Circular - RBI/2020-21/88 (Ref. No. DoS. CO. PPG. /
SEC.05/11.01.005/2020-21) dated 3rd February, 2021 
and functioning of internal audit is also realigned as 
per the policy. The functioning of controls is regularly 
monitored to ensure their efficiency in mitigating risks. 
A comprehensive internal audit department functions 
in-house to continuously audit and report gaps if any, in 
the diverse business verticals, process improvements and 
statutory compliances applicable. The Internal Audit team 
functions with adequate Industry Standards in audit and 
are equipped with over 1000 dedicated personnel who 
are constantly engaged in safeguarding your Company’s 
assets, ensuring the quality of assets pledged, and also 
evaluates the adequacy of risk management systems at its 
operating units.
	
During the year under review, Internal Financial Controls 
were reviewed periodically by the management and 
the Audit Committee. Key areas were subject to various 
statutory and internal audits in order to review the 
adequacy and strength of IFC followed by the Company. 
As per the assessment, controls are strong and there are no 
major concerns. The internal financial controls are adequate 
and operating effectively to ensure orderly and efficient 
conduct of business operations.
	
Your Company has an independent internal audit function 
which carries out regular internal audits to test the design, 
operations, adequacy, and effectiveness of its internal 
control processes and also to suggest improvements 
to the management. The company had appointed M/S 
Deloitte as an advisory service provider for FY 2024-25 to 
support internal audit function along with inhouse team. 
Board also proposed to appoint PWC to provide -advisory 
service to assist management of the company in the 
appraisal of its internal control functions, recommend 
improvements in processes and procedures and surface 
significant observations and recommendations for process 
improvements.
	
As per Term of Reference, the Audit Committee of the 
Board is the concern authority wherein the Internal Audit 
Department reports to the Committee regarding significant 
audit findings and undertakes preventive and corrective 
measures to protect the interests of the Company. The audit 
committee undertakes an evaluation of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal control systems. It also oversees 
the implementation of audit recommendations especially 
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
121
involving risk management measures. Currently, the Audit 
system which the Company has been following is best in 
house with completely autonomous function and built on 
the best corporate governance framework.
	
Internal Control Systems and their adequacy has been 
discussed in more detail in Management Discussion 
and Analysis.
14.	 MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS, IF 
ANY, AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF 
THE COMPANY
	
There have been no material changes or commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company which have 
occurred between the end of the financial year and the date 
of this report.
15.	 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
	
Management Discussion and Analysis Report is attached 
and forms an integral part of the Annual Report. The report 
discusses in detail, the overall industry situation, economic 
developments, sector wise performance, outlook and state 
of company’s affairs.
16.	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
The Company is committed to achieving and adhering to 
the highest standard of Corporate Governance. It believes 
in and practices good corporate governance. The Company 
maintains transparency and also enhances corporate 
accountability. In terms of Regulation 34 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations read with Schedule V, the following forms part 
of this Report:
	
a.	
Declaration regarding compliance to Code of Conduct 
by the Board Members and Senior Management 
Personnel;
	
b.	
A certificate from a Practicing Company Secretary that 
none of the directors on the Board of the Company 
have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as directors of Companies by 
the Board/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such 
statutory authority;
	
c.	
Report on the Corporate Governance; and
	
d.	
Practicing Company Secretaries certificate regarding 
compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance.
17.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
AND BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT:
	
Your Company has a well-structured Corporate Social 
Responsibility (‘CSR’) Policy configuring the programmes, 
projects and activities that your Company undertakes to 
create a significant positive impact on under-privileged 
section of the society especially in Thrissur, Kerala. All these 
programmes fall within the purview of Section 135 read 
with Schedule VII of the Companies Act 2013 and the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014 (‘CSR Rules’). CSR Policy indicating the activities to 
be undertaken by the Company have been formulated by 
the Board based on the recommendation of the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee (CSR Committee). The CSR 
Policy may be accessed on the Company’s website at 
the link: https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes 
.Your Company has undertaken socially impactful CSR 
Projects during the year under review. Your Company has 
partnered with implementing agencies ie., Manappuram 
Foundation and Lions Club International Foundation India 
(LCIF India) to implement projects in the CSR focus area viz. 
promotion of quality education, promotion of healthcare, 
Rural development projects, women empowerment, 
environment sustainability etc which includes both ongoing 
and one year projects.
	
During the FY 2024-25, your Company was required to 
spend ` 384.46 million under CSR as enumerated in Section 
135(5) of the Act. Your Company has spent an amount of 
` 393.77 million on CSR activities. Further, in terms of the 
amended CSR Rules, the Chief Financial Officer has certified 
that the funds disbursed have been utilised for the purpose 
and in the manner approved by the CSR Committee and the 
Board of Directors of your Company.
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives taken by the 
Company during the FY 2024-25, is detailed in the Report 
on CSR activities which is annexed herewith marked as 
Annexure 1.
	
In India, ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) is 
a rapidly progressing segment, concentrates on how the 
business conglomerate can integrate sustainability and 
ethical practices into their operations. It’s a framework 
for evaluating a company’s overall sustainability impact 
across environmental, social, and governance dimensions, 
going beyond traditional financial metrics. As a responsible 
organisation your Company takes various measures to 
mitigate its business impact on the environment, ensure its 
conduct is responsible towards the internal and external 
stakeholders and invest in good governance practices. 
Our various efforts towards responding to the stakeholder 
needs and concerns are addressed in the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’), covering 
the nine principles of National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC). The BRSR provides an avenue 
for disclosing an overview of the entity’s material ESG risks 
and opportunities, goals and targets related to sustainability 
and performance against them. As per Regulation 34 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, BRSR for FY 2024-25 forms part 
of this Report.
18.	  RISK MANAGEMENT:
	
Risk management is integral to the Company’s strategic 
and operational resilience. A well-defined Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) Framework and Policy, approved by 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
122
the Board of Directors, underpins the Company’s efforts 
to proactively identify, assess, and mitigate risks that may 
impact its business objectives, financial performance, and 
regulatory compliance.
	
The framework covers a broad spectrum of risks including 
credit, operational, market, liquidity, compliance, interest 
rate and strategic risks. These risks are continuously 
monitored through structured governance processes and 
integrated into decision-making across all levels of the 
organisation. The ERM Framework is designed to ensure 
effective resource utilisation, business continuity, and 
long-term value creation.
	
The Risk Management Committee of the Board, constituted 
in accordance with the RBI Scale-Based Regulation 
Direction dated October 19, 2023 and SEBI Listing 
Regulations, provides oversight on the implementation 
and effectiveness of the ERM framework. The Committee’s 
guidance is implemented through the Risk Management 
function, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who is 
responsible for driving the risk agenda and embedding a 
risk-aware culture across the organisation.
	
The latest version of the Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework and Policy is available on the Company’s 
website: https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
	
For detailed Risk Management procedure and Terms of 
Reference of the Company, please refer to the Management 
Discussion & Analysis Report and the Corporate Governance 
Report which are annexed to this report.
19.	 HUMAN RESOURCES
	
At Manappuram Finance Limited, our Human Resources 
strategy is centered around fostering a dynamic and 
inclusive work environment that promotes employee 
engagement, talent development, and organisational 
growth. Led by Dr. Renjith PR, our Chief Human Resources 
Officer, the HR department focuses on several strategic 
initiatives:
	
1.Talent Management: We prioritise attracting, retaining, 
and developing top talent through comprehensive 
recruitment processes, robust training programs, and career 
development opportunities. Our goal is to build a skilled and 
motivated workforce that drives the company’s success
	
2. Employee Engagement: We implement various initiatives 
to enhance employee satisfaction and engagement, 
including regular feedback mechanisms, recognition 
programs, and wellness activities. These efforts ensure 
that our employees feel valued and connected to the 
company’s mission
	
3. Learning and Development: Continuous learning is a 
cornerstone of our HR strategy. We offer a range of training 
programs, workshops, and e-learning modules to help 
employees acquire new skills and advance their careers. 
This commitment to learning supports both individual and 
organisational growth
	
Organisational Culture
	
Manappuram Finance Limited is committed to maintaining a 
strong organisational culture that emphasises transparency, 
ethics, and collaboration. Our core values are reflected in 
our daily operations and interactions:
	
1. 	
Ethical Practices: We uphold the highest standards 
of ethics and integrity in all our business dealings. 
This commitment to ethical practices fosters trust and 
credibility among our stakeholders
	
2. 	
Transparency: We believe in open communication 
and transparency at all levels of the organisation. 
This approach ensures that employees are 
well-informed and aligned with the company’s goals 
and objectives
	
3. 	
Collaboration: Our culture encourages teamwork 
and collaboration across departments. By working 
together, we leverage diverse perspectives and 
expertise to achieve common goals and drive 
innovation
	
Integration of Information Technology within HR
	
The integration of Information Technology within the HR 
department at Manappuram Finance Limited has been 
pivotal in enhancing efficiency and effectiveness. Our digital 
strategy is built on three pillars: Innovate, Differentiate, 
and Execute
	
1. 	
Innovate: We leverage innovative technologies 
to streamline HR processes, such as SMS-based 
communication, WhatsApp-based platforms, and 
digital scorecards. These tools help us penetrate more 
markets and stay ahead of the competition.
	
2. 	
Differentiate: We establish business differentiators 
through advanced IT solutions like Customer 
Relationship Management (CRM), Mobile Device 
Management (MDM), and Robotic Process Automation 
(RPA). These technologies enhance our HR operations 
and ensure a unique employee experience
	
3.	
Execute: We consolidate our IT infrastructure by 
moving to private cloud solutions, replacing PCs 
with mobile devices, and setting up outsourced 
information security organisations. These measures 
improve service delivery and support our digital 
transformation journey.
	
HR Automation
	
To further enhance our HR operations, we have implemented 
several automated processes:
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
123
	
1.	
Onboarding: Our onboarding system ensures a 
seamless and efficient integration of new employees 
into the organisation. This system includes digital 
forms, e-signatures, and automated workflows to 
streamline the onboarding process
	
2.	
Probation Confirmation: We utilise automated 
systems to track and confirm the probation period 
of employees. This ensures timely evaluations and 
confirmations, enhancing employee satisfaction and 
organisational efficiency
	
3.	
Creating Personal Files: The creation and 
maintenance of personal files for permanent 
employees are automated, ensuring accurate and 
secure record-keeping. This system allows for easy 
access and management of employee information
	
4.	
Performance Management System: Our performance 
management system can be integrated with advanced 
analytics and AI to provide real-time feedback 
and evaluations. This system supports continuous 
performance improvement and career development
	
5.	
Exit Process: The exit process is automated to 
ensure a smooth transition for departing employees. 
This includes automated exit interviews, clearance 
procedures, and final settlements
	
MADU Platform and AI Integration
	
MADU (Manappuram Digital University) is a cutting-edge 
digital education platform designed to revolutionise learning 
and development within the organisation. Developed by our 
in-house Learning & Development Team, MADU offers a 
comprehensive suite of learning tools and resources
	
1.	
Classroom Training: Facilitates traditional 
instructor-led training sessions, enhancing skills and 
knowledge through direct interaction
	
2.	
Virtual Training: Provides live interactive learning 
experiences through videoconferencing, allowing 
remote collaboration and real-time engagement
	
3.	
E-Learning: Delivers visualised, interactive learning 
content accessible anytime, anywhere, supporting 
continuous learning
	
4.	
Blended Learning: Combines traditional and modern 
learning methods to cater to diverse learning needs
	
5.	
Digital Library: Offers a vast collection of digital 
resources, including books, study materials, and 
video tutorials
	
The MADU platform will be upgraded with AI integration 
to enhance its capabilities. AI-driven features include 
personalised learning paths, predictive analytics for 
training needs, and automated content recommendations. 
These advancements ensure a tailored and effective 
learning experience for all employees
20.	 DEPOSITS FROM PUBLIC
	
As you are aware, your Company had stopped acceptance 
of deposits from the public since FY 2009-10. Your Company 
had converted itself into a non-deposit taking Category ‘B’ 
NBFC. During FY 2024-25 the Company has not accepted 
deposits as per Chapter V of the Act.
	
The Company has no unclaimed deposit as at 
March 31, 2025.
21.	 RBI GUIDELINES
	
The Company comply with the RBI SBR Direction and 
all the applicable laws, regulations, guidelines, etc. 
prescribed by RBI from time to time. The Company was 
identified as NBFC-Middle Layer under the RBI SBR 
Direction. In compliance with the requirement of RBI 
SBR Direction the Company has defined and appointed 
various control functions such as Chief Risk Officer, Chief 
Compliance Officer, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Information 
Security Officer.
	
Your Company has complied with all the applicable 
regulations prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time. Please refer note 49-57, 63-70 of 
Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 
for additional disclosures required under RBI Guidelines 
applicable to the Company.
22.	 MARKETING & PROMOTION INITIATIVES
	
At Manappuram Finance, our marketing and promotional 
strategies are designed to strengthen brand visibility, 
enhance customer engagement, and support business 
growth across all segments. In line with evolving market 
dynamics and consumer behaviour, we have adopted a 
digital-first approach to connect with our audiences more 
effectively and efficiently. Our social media platforms, 
including Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and Google, 
have become key drivers of outreach and interaction. 
These platforms are actively used to disseminate 
comprehensive product information, share real-time 
updates, highlight branch-specific services, and present 
authentic customer testimonials. These efforts not only 
build credibility but also foster a sense of community 
among our existing and potential customers.
	
We run sustained and targeted advertising campaigns 
across digital channels to promote our schemes and 
services. These campaigns are backed by data-driven 
insights to ensure they reach the right audience segments, 
maximising both visibility and conversion. In addition, 
we continuously track engagement metrics to optimise 
content performance and refine our messaging strategy. 
Our marketing initiatives are aligned with the organisation’s 
broader strategic objectives, ensuring a cohesive and 
impactful brand presence across all customer touchpoints.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
124
22.1. QUALITY AND ACCOLADES:
	
During the year, your company has received the following 
awards and recognitions:
	
a)	
Exemplary Leadership in CSR – EdelGive Hurun India: 
VP Nandakumar, MD & CEO of Manappuram Finance 
Ltd., was honoured with the 2025 EdelGive Hurun 
India Award for Exemplary Leadership in CSR at the 
India Philanthropy Summit in Mumbai. The recognition 
celebrates his role in driving impactful social initiatives 
through Manappuram Foundation.
	
b)	
Economic Times CSR Award 2024: Manappuram 
Foundation (The implementing agency of the 
company) received the Economic Times CSR Award 
at a ceremony held in New Delhi. The award was 
received as an acknowledgment to the Foundation’s 
commitment to community development and 
sustainability.
	
c)	
Recognition at 16th National Conference – FVTRS 
(2024) the 16th National Conference by FVTRS in 
Bangalore: Manappuram Foundation was recognised 
for its impactful work in skill development and 
livelihood enhancement, reaffirming its role in 
empowering vulnerable communities across India.
23.	 CAPITAL ADEQUACY
	
Your Company’s Capital Adequacy Ratio as of March 31, 
2025, stood at 30.91% of the aggregate risk-weighted 
assets on the balance sheet and risk-adjusted value 
of the off-balance sheet items, which is well above the 
regulatory minimum of 15%. Out of the above, the Tier I 
capital adequacy ratio stood at 30.91% % and the Tier II 
capital adequacy ratio stood at 0.00%.
24.	 PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS
	
The loan made, guarantee given or security provided in the 
ordinary course of business by a Non-Banking Financial 
Company registered with Reserve Bank of India are exempt 
from the applicability of provisions of Section 186 of the 
Act. As such, the particulars of loans and guarantee have 
not been disclosed in this Report. During the year under 
review, the Company has invested surplus funds in various 
securities in the ordinary course of business. For details of 
the investments of the Company, refer to Note 13 of the 
financial statements.
	
Details of Loans, Guarantees and Investments covered 
under the provisions of Section 186 of the Act are provided 
in Note No.10, 11,20, &20.2 to the to the Standalone 
Financial Statement.
25.	  EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(a) of the Act, the Annual Return 
of the Company prepared as per Section 92(3) of the Act 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, is hosted on 
the website of the Company and can be accessed at https://
www.manappuram.com/investors/annual-reports.html
26.	 COMPOSITION AND TERMS OF REFERENCE OF 
BOARD COMMITTEES:
a.	
Audit Committee:
	
Your Company has constituted an Audit Committee, 
in accordance with the requirements of the Act, RBI 
directions, and SEBI Listing Regulations. Details on Audit 
committee, terms of reference and meetings appear on the 
Report on Corporate Governance annexed to this report. 
All recommendations of the Committee were accepted by 
your Board during the financial year 2024-25.
b.	
Nomination Compensation and Corporate 
Governance Committee:
	
Your Company has constituted a Nomination Compensation 
and Corporate Governance Committee, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Act, RBI directions, and SEBI 
Listing Regulations. Details of the Committee, terms of 
reference and meetings appear on the Report on Corporate 
Governance annexed to this report. All recommendations 
of the Committee were accepted by your Board during the 
financial year 2024-25.
c.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship and Securities Transfer 
Committee:
	
Your Company has constituted Stakeholders’ Relationship 
and Securities Transfer Committee, in accordance with 
the requirements of the Act, RBI directions, and SEBI 
Listing Regulations. Details of the Committee, terms of 
reference and meetings appear on the Report on Corporate 
Governance annexed to this report.
d.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:
	
Your Company has constituted an Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee, in accordance with the 
requirements of the the Act and other applicable rules and 
regulations. Details of the Committee, terms of reference and 
meetings appear on the Report on Corporate Governance 
annexed to this report.
e. 	
Risk Management Committee:
	
Your Company has constituted Risk Management 
Committee, in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and other applicable rules and regulations. Details of the 
Committee, terms of reference and meetings appear on the 
Report on Corporate Governance annexed to this report.
27.	  WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY AND VIGIL 
MECHANISM
	
In pursuance of Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation 
4(2)(d)(iv) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company 
has implemented vigil mechanism named ‘Whistle Blower 
Policy and Vigil Mechanism’ to provide a formal mechanism 
to the directors and employees to report their concerns 
about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or 
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
125
violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct or Business 
Ethics Policy. The Policy provides for adequate safeguards 
against victimisation of employees who avail the mechanism 
and also provides for direct access to the Chairman and 
a Member (Woman Director) of the Audit Committee in 
appropriate and exceptional circumstances.
	
No person has been denied access to the Chairman and 
a Member (Woman Director) of the audit committee. 
Company has ensured that its employees are aware of the 
content and procedure of the policy and fully protected. 
The Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism may be 
accessed on the Company’s website at the link: https://
www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
	
No complaints were reported during the FY 2024-25
28.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
	
The Board of Directors, to the best of their knowledge and 
ability, confirm that:
	
i.	
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures;
	
ii.	
They have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the Financial year and of the 
profit of the Company for that period;
	
iii.	
They have taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
	
iv.	
They have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
	
v.	
They have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and operating effectively;
	
vi.	
They have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
	
Based on the framework of internal financial  controls and 
compliance systems established and maintained by the 
Company, work performed by the internal, statutory and 
secretarial auditors and external consultants, including 
audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting 
by the statutory auditors, and the reviews performed by 
management and the relevant board committees, including 
the audit committee, the board is of the opinion that the 
Company’s internal financial controls were adequate and 
effective during FY 2024-25.
29.	  PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR 
ARRANGEMENT WITH RELATED PARTIES:
	
In pursuance to the requirements of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a Policy 
on Related Party Transactions and the same can be 
accessed on the Company’s website at Policy on https://
www.manappuram.com/policies-codes. All transactions 
with Related Parties are placed before the Audit Committee 
for approval. All related party transactions that were 
entered into during the financial year, the particulars of 
such transactions are disclosed in the notes to the financial 
statements.
	
During the financial year 2024–25, all contracts or 
arrangements with related parties under Section 188 of 
the Companies Act, 2013, were in the ordinary course of 
business and on an arm’s length basis, except settlement 
agreement between Manappuram Finance Limited (MAFIL) 
and Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Ltd (MACOM), 
dated 05/11/2024 on account of following facts:
	
i.	
On July 26, 2024, MAFIL was informed of 
embezzlement of approximately ` 19.78 crore by 
an employee of its subsidiary, MACOM, through 
unauthorised access.
	
ii.	
An independent investigation by KPMG confirmed no 
further instances beyond this amount.
	
iii.	
MAFIL submitted a recovery plan, which was approved 
by MACOM’s Board on November 1, 2024, considering 
MACOM’s financial position.
	
iv.	
A settlement agreement was executed on November 5, 
2024, for the full recovery of ` 19.78 crore, structured 
as per schedule:
	
	
	
Immediate cash payment: ` 2.5 crore in Q3 
FY 2024–25.
	
	
	
Quarterly adjustments: ` 1 crore against 
ongoing services.
	
	
	
Additional cash payments: Up to ` 1 crore in 
subsequent quarters, if needed.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
126
	
v.	
As the amount is fully recoverable, there is no impact 
on the audited standalone financials for the year 
ended March 31, 2025.
	
Further, the Company did not enter into any contract, 
arrangement, or transaction with related parties that could 
be considered material under Regulation 23 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and the Company’s policy on related 
party transactions hence this not form part of AOC-2.
	
Your directors draw the attention of the Members to note 
nos. 42-43 of the Standalone Financial Statement which 
sets out related party disclosures.
30.	  LISTING WITH STOCK EXCHANGES
	
Your Company’s equity shares are listed on the National 
Stock Exchange of India Ltd (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE). 
Non- Convertible Debentures issued by the Company 
through public issues/ private placement are listed on 
the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd and BSE Ltd. 
Your Company confirms that it has paid the Annual Listing 
Fees for the financial year 2024-25 to BSE and NSE where 
the Company’s securities are listed.
31.	 DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
31.1.	Board Composition
	
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Company 
is governed by the Act and Regulation 17 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and is in conformity with the same. 
As on the date of this Report, the Board of Directors 
comprised of a combination of Ten directors (2 Executive 
Director and 8 Non-Executive Directors). The Board mix 
provides a combination of professionalism, knowledge and 
experience required in the NBFC sector. The details of Board 
Composition, skills possessed by each director along with 
other details as required to be provided under SEBI Listing 
Regulations, have been given in detail in the Corporate 
Governance report.
31.2.	 Appointments during the financial year 2024-25
	
1.	
Mr. Abhijit Sen (DIN: 00002593), who was appointed 
as an Independent Director for a term of five (5) 
consecutive years from August 27, 2019, to August 27, 
2024 (both days inclusive), has given his consent 
for re-appointment and submitted a declaration 
confirming that he meets the criteria of independence 
under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
rules framed thereunder, and Regulation 16(1)(b) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. The members of the 
Company have re-appointed him as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director for a second term of five (5) 
consecutive years, commencing from August 28, 
2024, to August 27, 2029, not subject to retirement 
by rotation.
	
2.	
Mr. Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan (DIN: 
01124966) was appointed as Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company by the 
shareholders pursuant to the Postal Ballot route on 
April 3, 2024 for a term of three (3) consecutive years 
with effect from March 01, 2024, to February 28, 
2027, not subject to retirement by rotation.
31.3.	 Cessations/ Retirements during the financial year 
2024-25
	
1.	
During the year under review, Adv. V.R. Ramachandran 
and Mr. P. Manomohanan had retired from their 
respective positions on the Board upon completion of 
their terms on July 31, 2024.
	
2.	
Additionally, Mr. S.R. Balasubramanian, Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director, resigned from the Board of 
Directors of the Company with effect from May 9, 2024.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company appreciated the 
guidance and contribution on various matters made 
by Mr. V.R. Ramachandran, Mr. P. Manomohanan and 
Mr. S.R. Balasubramanian during their tenure.
31.4.Directors Liable to retire by rotation at the AGM
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152(6) of the 
Act, Dr. Sumitha Nandan, Executive Director, retires by 
rotation and, being eligible, offers herself for re-appointment 
at the 33rd Annual General Meeting (AGM). Relevant details 
pertaining to her re-appointment, as required under 
Para 1.2.5 of the Secretarial Standards issued by ICSI 
on General Meetings and Regulation 36(3) of the Listing 
Regulations, is provided in the notice convening the 33rd 
AGM. The brief profiles of Directors seeking re-appointment 
are also available on the website of the Company at https://
www.manappuram.com/management-team
	
The Board of Directors of the Company are duly constituted 
as per provisions of the Act and Rules thereunder. None of 
the Directors of the Company are disqualified under the 
provisions of the Act or the SEBI Listing Regulations. All the 
Directors of the Company have confirmed that they satisfy 
the ‘Fit and Proper’ Criteria as prescribed under RBI SBR 
Direction , as amended, and that they are not disqualified 
from being appointed/ continuing as Directors in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act.
31.5.Changes in Key Managerial Personnel during the 
FY 2024-25
	
During the year under review, there were no changes in the 
Key Managerial Personnel appointed pursuant to Section 
203 of the Act. In terms of said provisions of the Act, the 
following are the Key Managerial Personnel (‘KMPs’) of the 
Company as on the date of this report:
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
127
	
1.	
Mr. Nandakumar VP, Managing Director & CEO.
	
2.	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan, Executive Director.
	
3.	
Ms. Bindu A. L., Chief Finance officer.
	
4.	
Mr. Manoj Kumar V R, Company Secretary & 
Compliance officer.
	
Details of Senior Management Personnel of the Company 
are provided in the report on Corporate Governance 
attached to the Board’s Report. During the year under 
review, there were no changes in the Senior Management 
Personnel in the Company except as below:
	
	
The Head of the Human Resources Department has 
been replaced, and Dr. Ranjith P.R., formerly the Head 
of HRM Training, has been re-designated as the Chief 
Human Resource Officer (CHRO)
31.6.DECLARATION FROM INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 
ON ANNUAL BASIS
	
Your Company has received necessary declarations from all 
the Independent Directors of the Company confirming that 
they meet the criteria as mentioned in Section 149 of the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations. Your Company has also 
received undertaking and declaration from each director on 
fit and proper criteria in terms of the provisions of the RBI 
SBR Direction . A statement by Managing Director & CEO 
confirming receipt of this declaration from Independent 
Directors is annexed to this report as Annexure 2.
	
In the opinion of the Board, there has been no change in the 
circumstances which may affect their status as Independent 
Directors of the Company and the Board is satisfied of the 
integrity, expertise, and experience (including proficiency 
in terms of Section 150(1) of the Act and applicable rules 
thereunder) of all Independent Directors on the Board. 
Further, in terms of Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 
6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, Independent Directors 
of the Company have included their names in the data 
bank of Independent Directors maintained with the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA).
	
During the year under review, the non-executive directors of 
the Company had no pecuniary relationship or transactions 
with the Company other than the sitting fees, commission, 
if any and reimbursement of expenses incurred by the 
for the purpose of attending the meetings of the Board or 
Committees of the Company.
31.7.	Fit and Proper Policy
	
The Company adheres to the process and methodology 
prescribed by the RBI in respect of the ‘Fit & Proper’ criteria 
as applicable to NBFCs, signing of Deeds of Covenants 
which binds the directors to discharge their responsibilities 
to the best of their abilities, individually and collectively in 
order to be eligible for being appointed/ re-appointed as a 
director of the Company.
	
All the directors of the Company have confirmed that they 
satisfy the ‘fit and proper’ criteria as prescribed in Chapter 
XI of RBI SBR Direction and that they are not disqualified 
from being appointed/continuing as directors in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act. Your Company has also received 
undertaking and declaration from each director on fit 
and proper criteria and the same were placed before the 
Nomination Compensation and Corporate Governance 
Committee and Board for its review and noting.
31.8.Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors:
	
In compliance with the requirement of Regulation 25 of 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has put in place a 
familiarisation programme for the Independent Directors 
to familiarise them about the Company and their roles, 
rights, responsibilities in the Company. The details of 
the familiarisation programme along with the number 
of hours spent by each of the Independent Director 
during the FY 2024-25 are explained in the Corporate 
Governance Report. The same is also available on the 
website of the Company at https://www.manappuram.com/
familiarisation-programme-independent-directors
31.9. Performance Evaluation
	
The Board conducted the performance evaluation of the 
Individual directors, Board Committees, Board as a whole 
and the Chairman of the Board in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
including the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation 
issued by SEBI.
	
The Board of Directors decided to appoint a third party to 
assist the Board in carrying out the formal evaluation of 
the Board pursuant to which NASDAQ Corporate solutions 
was appointed to assist in the evaluation process of its own 
performance, board committees and individual directors 
pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the corporate 
governance requirements as prescribed under the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015. As a part of the evaluation process, 
questionnaire on various aspects governing the company 
was circulated to directors for their individual opinion 
through electronic mode, thereafter individual telephonic 
interviews with all directors were carried out and it was 
ascertained that the company has maintained the highest 
standards of corporate governance and integrity in all its 
practices. The Nomination, Compensation and Corporate 
Governance Committee and the Board of Directors of the 
Company further considered the observations and have 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
128
taken necessary measures to implement the suggestions. 
These meetings were intended to obtain Directors’ input on 
effectiveness of Board/Committee processes.
	
The Board evaluated the effectiveness of its functioning 
and that of the Committees and of directors by seeking their 
inputs on various aspects of Board/Committee Governance 
through structured questionnaire.
	
The aspects covered in the evaluation included the 
contribution to and monitoring of corporate governance 
practices, participation in the long-term strategic planning 
and the fulfilment of directors’ obligations and fiduciary 
responsibilities, including but not limited to, active 
participation at the Board and Committee meetings.
	
The Board considered and discussed the inputs received 
from all the directors. Further, the Independent Directors 
at their meeting reviewed the performance and role of 
Non-Independent Directors, the Board as a whole along 
with Chairperson of the Company and had also assessed 
the quality, quantity, and timeliness of flow of information 
between the Company management and the Board that was 
necessary for the Board to perform their duties effectively 
and reasonably.
	
Based on inputs received from the members, it was 
revealed that the overall performance evaluation of 
the Board, composition, and quality, understanding 
the business including risks, process and procedures, 
oversight of financial reporting process including internal 
controls and audit functions, ethics and compliances and 
monitoring activities, has been found to be reasonably good. 
Similarly, the effectiveness of the Board Committees has 
been rated good. The Committees of the Board function 
effectively. Sufficient time is allotted for discussion of the 
agendas. The performance of the Chairman of the Company 
has been found to be good. The Chairman demonstrates 
effective leadership qualities and skills, provides strategic 
directions and guidance to the Company and addresses 
recommendations/ suggestions of the Board Members 
including divergent views. Overall, the Board is functioning 
very well in a cohesive and interactive manner.
31.10. Remuneration Policy:
	
The Board of Directors has, on the recommendation of 
the Nomination Compensation and Corporate Governance 
Committee, adopted a policy on director’s appointment 
and remuneration for directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and other employees including criteria for determining 
qualification, positive attributes, and independence of 
directors which inter-alia includes policy for selection 
and appointment of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
Senior Management Personnel, and their remuneration in 
compliance with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act. 
The Remuneration Policy of the Company is available on 
the Company’s website at https://www.manappuram.com/
policies-codes
	
Some of the salient features of which are as follows:
	
i.	
To regulate the appointment and remuneration of 
directors, key managerial personnel and the senior 
management personnel;
	
ii.	
To identify persons who are qualified to become 
directors as per the criteria/ Board skill matrix 
identified by the Board;
	
iii.	
To ensure proper composition of Board of Directors 
and Board diversity;
	
iv.	
To ensure that level and composition of remuneration 
is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate directors, key managerial personnel and 
senior management and their remuneration involves 
a balance between fixed and incentive pay reflecting 
short and long-term performance objectives 
appropriate to Company’s working and its goals.
31.11. Code of Conduct for Directors and Employees:
	
  The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its 
directors and employees including a Code of Conduct for 
Independent Directors which suitably incorporates the 
duties of Independent Non-Executive Directors as laid 
down in the Act. The said Codes can be accessed on the 
Company’s website at https://www.manappuram.com/
corporate-governance
	
  In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel and Senior Management Personnel 
have affirmed compliance with their respective codes. 
The Managing Director & CEO has also confirmed and 
certified the same, which certification is provided at the 
end of the Report on Corporate Governance.
32.	 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD
	
During the financial year 2024-25, Board of Directors met 
on (12) Twelve occasions. Details of various meetings of the 
Board are given in the Corporate Governance Report which 
is a part of this report.
33.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE OUTGO:
	
The information pursuant to Section 134(3) (m) of the 
Act read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are 
provided as Annexure 3 to this report.
34.	 AUDITS
a.	
Statutory Audit under Section 139 of the Act:
	
In compliance with the Reserve Bank of India’s Guidelines 
on appointment of Statutory Auditor(s) by Non-Banking 
Financial Company (“NBFC”) vide Circular RBI/ 2021-22/25 
Ref. No. DoS. CD.ARG/ SEC.01/ 08.91.001/ 2021-22 dated 
27th April, 2021 (“RBI Guidelines”) and pursuant to Section 
139 of the Act, the Members of the Company appointed 
M/s. KKC & Associates LLP (ICAI Firm Registration No. 
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
129
105146W/ W100621 and M/s. Chokshi & Chokshi LLP 
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 101872W/W100045) as 
the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Company at the 32nd 
Annual General Meeting held on 14th Day of August 2024 
to hold office from the conclusion of the 32nd Annual 
General Meeting till the conclusion of 35th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company to conduct the audit of accounts 
of the Company on such remuneration plus out of pocket 
expenses, if any, as may be mutually agreed upon between 
the Board of Directors of the Company and the said Joint 
Statutory Auditors. The Joint Statutory Auditors holds a 
valid peer review certificate as prescribed under the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
	
The Auditors’ Report to the Members for the year 
under review is unmodified, i.e., it does not contain any 
qualification, reservation or adverse remark or disclaimer, 
and the notes annexed to the Standalone and Consolidated 
financial statements referred to in the Independent 
Auditors’ Reports are self-explanatory and do not call for 
any further comments. Further, the statutory auditors of 
your Company had reported an instance of fraud that took 
place in the branch of the Company to the Audit Committee 
and the Board of Directors of the Company, the details as 
are follows:
	
i.	
On July 26, 2024, the Company was informed by 
its Subsidiary, namely Manappuram Comptech and 
Consultants Ltd (“MACOM”), providing lT Support 
Services to the Company, of instances of embezzlement 
of funds of the Company to the extent of approximately 
` 19.78 crore through unauthorised access.
	
ii.	
The management of MACOM appointed an 
independent consultant to carry out an investigation, 
who concluded its investigation and confirmed 
through its report dated October 19, 2024 that no 
incremental instances of embezzlement of funds were 
noted by them and the assessed loss remains same to 
the extent of ` 19.78 crore as determined during the 
preliminary findings.
	
iii.	
Considering that an employee of MACOM was involved 
in the embezzlement of funds, the Company has 
submitted a recovery plan to MACOM for ` 19.78 crore, 
which had been approved by the Board of Directors of 
MACOM in its meeting held on November 1, 2024 after 
considering the financial position of MACOM and its 
income and other relevant aspects, which will facilitate 
the recovery of the dues over a period of 4 years, for 
which the Company has entered into a settlement 
agreement dated November 5, 2024 with MACOM.
	
iv.	
Since the amount of ` 19.78 crore is fully recoverable 
from MACOM, there is no additional impact, which 
needs to be accounted in the audited standalone 
financial results for the period ended March 31, 2025.
	
The notes annexed to the Standalone and Consolidated 
financial statements referred in the Independent Auditors’ 
Reports are self- explanatory and do not call for any further 
comments. The reports issued by Statutory Auditor does 
not contain any qualification, reservation, adverse remark, 
or disclaimer.
	
There were no frauds reported by the statutory auditors to 
Audit Committee or Board under Section 143 of the Act.
b.	
Secretarial Audit
	
The board of directors at its meeting held on May 9, 
2025 recommended the appointment of M/s. KSR & Co, 
Company Secretaries LLP, Coimbatore, Peer Reviewed Firm 
of Practising Company Secretaries (PR No. 2635/2022) as 
the Secretarial Auditors of the Company for 1st term of 5 
(five) consecutive years commencing from the financial 
year 2025-26 till the financial year 2029-30 subject to the 
approval of the shareholders of the Company at the ensuing 
AGM. Secretarial audit report for year ended on 31st March, 
2025 as provided by KSR & Co. Practicing Company 
Secretaries LLP, is annexed to this Report as Annexure- 4.
	
No Fraud has been reported by the Secretarial auditors 
under Section 143(14) of Companies Act 2013.
	
The reports issued by Secretarial Auditor does not contain 
any qualification, reservation, adverse remark, or disclaimer.
c.	
Cost records and Cost Audit
	
Maintenance of cost records and requirement of cost audit 
as prescribed under the provisions of Section 148(1) of the 
Act are not applicable for the business activities carried out 
by the Company.
d.	
Information systems Audit
	
In terms of the Master Direction of the Information 
Technology Framework for the NBFC Sector, NBFCs are 
required to have an information system audit at least once a 
year. In compliance with the aforesaid RBI Master Direction, 
your Company has engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers 
(PwC) to conduct an IS audit for FY 2024-25. The scope 
of the audit covers inter alia, Cloud Security Review, SOC 
(System and Organisation Controls), Call Centre Audit, 
Physical and Information Security, Telecommunication 
Risks, Local and Wide Area Network, Security Configuration 
Review, Endpoint Security Review, Vendor Security 
Review, Network VAPT, VAPT of Critical Systems, Backup, 
Restoration, DR, and BCP Effectiveness, IT General Controls 
(ITGC) Effectiveness, Compliance Review, Compliance with 
Regulatory Requirements, Database Security, Operational 
Risk Assessment, Application Security Assessment.
e.	
Auditors’ certificate on Corporate Governance
	
The Auditors (KSR & Co. Practicing Company Secretaries 
LLP) certificate confirming compliance with the conditions 
of corporate governance as stipulated under the SEBI 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
130
Listing Regulations for financial year 2024-25 is provided 
along with the Report on Corporate Governance.
f.	
Annual Secretarial Compliance Report
	
The Company has undertaken an audit for the financial 
year 2024-25 for all applicable compliances as per SEBI 
Regulations and Circulars/ Guidelines issued thereunder. 
The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report was submitted 
to the stock exchanges within 60 days from the end 
of the financial year and the same is available on the 
Company’s website at the https://www.manappuram.com/
secretarial-compliance-report
g.	
Certificate on Non-Disqualification of Directors
	
Certificate on Non-Disqualification of Directors issued by 
KSR & Co. Practicing Company Secretaries LLP, Coimbatore 
- 641018, is enclosed along with the Report on Corporate 
Governance.
35.	 PROTECTION OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE
	
The Company is committed in providing a safe environment 
for all employees at workplace and has zero tolerance 
towards sexual harassment. The Company has achieved the 
safe environment in providing a mechanism for addressing 
complaints of sexual harassment by an employee, without 
fear of reprisals in any form or manner.
	
The Company has constituted an Internal Complaints 
Committee (‘ICC’), in line with the requirements of the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”). The ICC has 
been constituted as per the POSH Act at all the locations 
where the Company operates to redress the complaints 
received regarding sexual harassment. All employees 
(permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees) are covered 
under this policy. POSH Act and its respective Rules 
provides protection against sexual harassment of women 
at workplace and lays down the guidelines and timelines 
for the prevention and redressal of complaints pertaining 
to sexual harassment.
	
Details of cases reported to Internal Complaints Committee 
during the financial year 2024-25 are as under:
Number of complaints pending at the 
beginning of the financial year 2024-25
0
Number of complaints filed during the 
financial year 2024-25
5
Number of complaints disposed of during the 
financial year 2024-25
5
Number of complaints pending as on end of 
the financial year 2024-25
0
	
No complaints were pending for more than 90 days during 
FY 2024-25. The Company has complied with provisions 
relating to the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee 
under the POSH Act.
36.	 PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND RELATED 
DISCLOSURES:
	
The information required under Section 197(12) of the 
Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is 
disclosed in this Report as an Annexure 5
	
In terms of the proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act, the 
Report is being sent to all Members, excluding the statement 
with respect to employees employed throughout the year 
and employees employed for part of the year who were in 
receipt of remuneration in excess of limits prescribed under 
Section 197 (12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and (3) of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014. The statement is available for 
inspection by any Member on request. Any Member 
interested in obtaining a copy of the said statement, may 
write an email to the Company Secretary at cosecretary@
manappuram.com.
37.	 SIGNIFICANT & MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY 
THE REGULATORS/ COURTS/ TRIBUNAL
	
There were no significant/ material orders passed by 
the regulators or courts or tribunals during the financial 
year 2024-25, impacting the going concern status and 
Company’s operations in future.
38.	 DETAILS OF AUCTIONS HELD DURING THE YEAR 2024-25
	
Additional disclosures as required by RBI (Non Banking Financial Company-Scaled Based Regulations) Directions, 2023 are as 
given below:
Year
Number 
of Loan 
Accounts
Principal Amount 
outstanding at the dates of 
auctions (A) (` in million)
Interest Amount 
outstanding at the dates of 
auctions (B) (` in million)
Total (A+B) 
(` in million)
Value 
fetched (` in 
million)
31-03-2024
54333
2286.44
854.97
872.03
3174.49
31-03-2025
138113
6021.96
2973.56
8995.52
9282.98
	
Note: No sister concern participated in the auctions during the year ended on 31st March, 2024 and 31st March, 2025.
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
131
39.	 DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO PART A OF SCHEDULE V OF SEBI LISTING REGULATIONS
	
Disclosure pursuant to Part A of Schedule V read with Regulation 34(3) and 53(f) of SEBI Listing Regulations is as given below:
Sl. No. Loans and Advances in the nature of loans
Amount 
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2025
Maximum Amo 
unt Outstanding 
during the year
1
To Subsidiaries
NIL
2
To Associates
NIL
NIL
3
To Firms/Companies in which Directors are Interested (other than (A) and 
(B) above)
NIL
NIL
4
Investments by the loanee in the shares of Parent Company and Subsidiary 
Company when the Company has made a loan or advance in the nature of 
loans
NIL
NIL
40.	 GENERAL:
	
Your directors state that no disclosure or reporting is 
required in respect of the following items as there were no 
transactions on these items during the year under review:
	
a.	
Neither the Managing Director nor the Whole-Time 
Directors of the Company received any remuneration 
or commission from any of its subsidiaries;
	
b.	
Company has complied with Secretarial Standards-1 
(SS-1) on Board meetings and Secretarial Standards-2 
(SS-2) on General meetings issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
	
c.	
There were no frauds reported by the auditors under 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013;
	
d.	
There were no revisions in the financial statements;
	
e.	
Issue of share (including sweat equity shares) to 
employees of the Company under any scheme as 
permitted under any provision of Companies Act, 2013.
	
f.	
The Company, in the capacity of Financial Creditor, has 
not filed any application with National Company Law 
Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 during the financial year 2023-24 for recovery 
of outstanding loans against any customer being 
Corporate Debtor.
	
g.	
The details of difference between amount of the 
valuation done at the time of one time settlement and 
the valuation done while taking loan from the Banks or 
Financial Institutions along with the reasons thereof- 
Not Applicable.
41.	 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
	
Your directors express sincere appreciation and gratitude 
to the employees of the Company at all levels for their 
dedicated service and commitments, to the Reserve 
Bank of India, Rating Agencies, Stock Exchanges, 
Debenture Trustees, RTA’s, Depositories, Central and State 
Governments and its statutory bodies for the support, 
guidance, and co-operation. Your directors wish to thank 
the Customers, Investors, Shareholders, Debenture 
holders, Bankers, Auditors, Scrutiniser and other Financial 
institutions and other stakeholders for the wholehearted 
support and confidence reposed on the Company.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Sd/-
Shailesh. J. Mehta
Place: Valapad 	
Chairman
Date: 11th July 2025 	
(DIN: 01633893 )
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
132
Annexure –1 
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies  
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended.]
1. 	
Brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company:
	
Manappuram Foundation (MF), a charitable organisation set up in October, 2009 is implementing and driving forward the 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of Manappuram Finance Limited (MAFIL). It was well involved in the CSR sphere years 
before it became a law of the land. With a vision to create healthy, educated, and happy communities, MAFIL has spent ` 393.76 
million during the fiscal 2024-25 towards the CSR in the following areas:
	
•	
Promotion of Quality Education
	
•	
Promotion of Healthcare/ Preventive Healthcare
	
•	
Development of the Rural Communities
	
Manappuram Foundation’s strategy is to collaborate with internal as well as external stakeholders to make an impact in the 
community through grass root programmes in Quality Education, Healthcare and Community Development. At present, the bulk 
of the Foundation’s activities are centered at the Thrissur coastal belt, which is also where MAFIL is headquartered. The financial 
audit and social audit are also conducted periodically to measure the impact of all major projects in CSR and to make sure the 
activities are in line with the vision and mission as approved by MAFIL.
	
Lions Clubs International Foundation (LCIF) is the charitable arm of Lions International, serving as one of the world’s largest 
service club foundations dedicated to addressing global humanitarian challenges. Established in 1968, LCIF empowers Lions 
clubs worldwide to expand their local community service through grants and disaster relief funding, focusing on key areas 
including vision, hunger, environment, childhood cancer, diabetes, and humanitarian efforts. The foundation operates on the 
principle that when Lions clubs combine their local service with LCIF’s global resources, they can tackle problems that are too 
large for any single club to address alone, ultimately working toward their shared goal of creating positive change in communities 
around the world. Through partnerships with organisations like the Manappuram Finance Limited and funding from Lions 
members and supporters globally, LCIF has awarded over $1 billion in grants to support sight-saving programs, disaster relief 
efforts, youth development, and other critical humanitarian initiatives that improve lives and strengthen communities across 
more than 200 countries and geographic areas.
2. 	 Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of Directorship Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during  
the year
1.
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan
Chairperson- Independent Director*
5
5
2.
Adv. V R Ramachandran
Member Independent Director**
5
2
3.
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Member - Managing Director
5
4
4.
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Member - Independent Director
5
5
5.
Adv.V P Seemandini
Member - Independent Director
5
5
6.
Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar
Member - Independent Director
5
5
* Redesignated as chairperson of the Committee effective August 08, 2024
** Ceased to be chairperson and member of the Committee due to resignation as Independent Director effective July 31, 2024
 
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
133
3. 	 Provide the web-link (s) where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the 
board are disclosed on the website of the company: 
	
Composition of CSR committee, and CSR Projects approved by the board can be accessed at https://www.manappuram.com/
investors/corporate--governance.html
	
CSR Policy can be accessed at https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes.html
4. 	 Provide the executive summary along with web-link (s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable.
	
Detailed impact assessment report can be accessed at https://www.manappuram.com/csr-impact-assessment-report
5. 	
(a) 	 Average net profit of the company as per sub - section (5) of section 135: ` 19,22,31,42,664
	
(b)	
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub - section (5) of section 135: ` 38,44,62,853
	
( c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of previous financial years: Nil
	
(d)	
The amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: Nil
	
(e)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b) + ( c) - (d)]: ` 38,44,62,853
6. 	
(a) 	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ` 39,37,62,692
   	
 (b)	  Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
   	
 ( c) 	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: ` 7,50,000
   	
 (d) 	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a) + (b) + ( c): ` 39,45,12,692
	
 (e)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year: See below the table	
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year. 
(in ` )
Amount Unspent (In ` million)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per sub - 
section (6) of section 135.
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to sub-section (5) of 
section 135.
Amount (In ` 
million)
Date of transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount.
Date of transfer.
39,37,70,079
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
(f) 	
Excess amount for set off, if any: Nil (See below the table)
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (In ` million)
1.
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) 
of section 135
384,462,853
2.
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
393,762,692
3.
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
9,299,838
4.
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of 
the previous financial years, if any
Nil
5.
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
9,299,838
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
134
7.	
 Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year 
(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub- section 
(6) of section 
135 (In ` 
million)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under sub- 
section (6) of 
section 135 
(In ` million)
Amount 
Spent in the 
Financial 
Year (In ` 
million)
Amount transferred 
to a Fund as 
specified under 
Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to 
sub- section (5) of 
section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining 
to be 
spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (In ` 
million)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in ` 
million)
Date of 
Transfer
1.
2021-22
140,000,285
43,962,676
43,962,676
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
2.
2022-23
13,138,486
13,138,486
13,138,486
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
3.
2023-24
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
NA
8.  	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year: Yes
	
If yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired – 70 Nos. (Seventy)
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
1
IT and Infrastructure 
Improvements, address: 
MAacademy
Palakkad
Viva City, DPO Road
Near KSRTC, Yakkara, Palakkad
Kerala 678014
678014
19/03/2025
1,31,72,127
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
2
IT and Infrastructure 
Improvements, address: 
MAacademy
Chittoor, Palakkad
Kerala 678101
678101
29/06/2024
27,99,155
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
3
IT and Infrastructure 
Improvements, address: 
MAacademy Thriprayar
2nd Floor, Supreme Arcade,
Opposite Thriprayar private 
Bus Stand, P.O. Nattika, 
Thrissur
Kerala 680566
680566
29/03/2025
42,07,383
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
4
IT and Infrastructure 
Improvements, address: 
Manappuram Foundation, 
Ist Floor, Ummaih Complex, 
Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala 
680567
680567
29/04/2024
43,27,301
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
5
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: MA CAMPUS 
PALAKKAD, 2nd Floor Viva City 
Building,
DPO Road, Near LIC,
Palakkad, Kerala- 678 014
678014
17/01/2025
29,93,651
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
135
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
6
Infrastructure development, 
address: MA CAMPUS, 
Thrissur, 3rd Floor, Sobha 
Heights Agraharam Road,
Poonkunnam Jn.
Thrissur, Kerala-680 002
680002
29/11/2024
21,25,448
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
7
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
Address: MACARE Kaloor No: 
36/2322 A & B, Chammany 
Chambers, Kaloor - 
Kadavanthara Rd, opp. Park 
Central Hotel, Ernakulam, 
Kerala 682017
682017
29/03/2025
69,85,092
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
8
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: MACARE Geriatric 
wellness clinic Irinjalakuda, 
Champion Tower, Raphael’s 
church, S Bazar, Irinjalakuda, 
Thrissur, Kerala 680121
680121
31/03/2025
4,06,75,075
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
9
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: MACARE Ollur,
Address: Bank of Baroda 
Building, Near, Companypady, 
Ollur, Thrissur, Kerala 680306
680306
07/12/2024
14,55,582
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
10
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement,
MACARE Puthiyakavu
address: near St. Francis Xavier 
church, opposite Ayudveda 
medical college, Dhanvantri 
Nagar, Puthiyakavu, 
Thrippunithura, Ernakulam, 
Kerala 682301
682301
04/11/2024
15,33,525
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
11
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: MACARE Thrissur, 
MAcare Diagnostics, Krishna 
Towers, Aswini junction, 
Thrissur, Kerala, 680020.
680020
29/03/2025
30,42,659
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
12
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: MACARE 
Mattancherry, Shan 
complex, Near women and 
child hospital, Bazar road, 
Mattancherry, Ernakulam, 
Kerala-682002
682002
08/03/2025
12,076
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
13
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: MACARE Diagnostics, 
Near Thrissur Medical College, 
Peringandoor, Thrissur, 
Kerala-680596
680596
19/11/2024
2,42,000
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
14
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address:
MAgeet, Valappad
Thrissur, Kerala -680567
680567
31/03/2025
11,27,76,915
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
136
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
15
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address: Mahima Counselling 
Centre NH 66, Near Riti 
Jewelry, Kothakulam, P.O 
Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala, PIN 
680 567.
680 567
31/01/2025
2,18,589
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
16
Various equipments and 
facilities for Manappuram 
Ambulance Serviecs, Valapad, 
Thrissur, Kerala-680567
680567
26/03/2025
39,436
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
17
Various equipment, address:
Manappuram Aquatic 
Complex, Painoor, Edathiruthy, 
Valluvanthara Rd, Valapad, 
Kerala 680567
680567
25/03/2025
38,88,959
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
18
Various equipments to 
Manappuram Badminton Court 
address:
Painoor, Edathiruthy, 
Valluvanthara Rd, Valapad, 
Kerala 680567
680567
10/12/2024
37,386
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
19
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address:
Manappuram Institute of 
Automotive, Manappuram Agro 
Farms Painoor,
Valapad, Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
680567
27/03/2025
24,03,886
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
20
Furniture to Manappuram 
Institute of Skill Development
address: Opp MAcare Hospital,
3rd Floor, Sreyas Shopping 
Centre
Valapad.P.O, Thrissur–Kerala,
Pin Code: 680 567
680 567
29/11/2024
7,28,575
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
21
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address:
Manappuram Fitness Centre, 
address:Ground Floor, 
Manappuram House, Valapad, 
Thrissur, Kerala 680567
680 567
29/11/2024
3,75,895
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
22
Infrastructure development 
and facility improvement, 
address:
Manappuram Fitness Centre, 
2nd Floor, Riti Jewelry
Kothakulam, Valapad Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
680 567
31/03/2025
15,00,795
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
23
Manappuram Yoga Centre 
address: 2nd Floor, Sree 
sankara Complex Vadakke 
Madham Brahmaswam 
M.G.Road , Thrissur, Kerala 
680001
680001
03/03/2025
40,750
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
137
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
24
Manappuram Yoga Centre 
address: First Floor, 
Manappuram House, Valapad, 
Thrissur, Kerala- 680 567
680567
20/12/2024
5,251
CSR00004545
Manappuram 
Foundation
V/104, 
Manappuram 
House, Valapad P 
O, Thrissur, Kerala - 
680567
25
Construction of Building for 
Salim Ali Foundation
Address: KARA 81 
Ayyappankavu, Road, 
Kanimangalam, Thrissur, 
Kerala 680027
680027
27/03/2025
15,00,000
CSR00015511
Salim Ali 
Foundation
Salim Ali 
Foundation KARA 
81 Ayyappankavu, 
Road, 
Kanimangalam, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680027
26
Construction of Building for: 
Seva Sadanam
Address: G6G2+M7R, 
West Fort, Asvary Nagar, 
Ayyanthole, Thrissur, Kerala 
680011
680011
07/01/2025
5,00,000
CSR00032665
Seva Sadanam
Seva Sadanam, 
G6G2+M7R, 
West Fort, Asvary 
Nagar, Ayyanthole, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680011
27
Construction of Amphitheatre 
at Christ College Irinjalakuda:
Address: 9637+MC4, Christ 
Nagar, Irinjalakuda, Kerala 
680125
680125
18/09/2024
5,00,000
CSR00029634
Christ college 
Irinjalakuda
Christ college 
Irinjalakuda 
9637+MC4, Christ 
Nagar, Irinjalakuda, 
Kerala 680125
28
113 Artificial Limbs to various 
beneficiaries
25/06/2024
2,50,000
NA
Various individual 
beneficiaries
Individual 
beneficiaries across 
various locations
29
Renovation work at 
Muriyamthodu beach, 
Address: Muriyamthodu beach 
,93JX+F6G, Muriyam Thodu 
Beach Road, Kerala 680567
680567
14/06/2024
16,98,138
NA
Valapad 
Gramapanchayath
Muriyamthodu 
beach, 93JX+F6G, 
Muriyam Thodu 
Beach Road., Kerala 
680567
30
12Convex Road Mirrors to 
Mathilakam and Valapad 
Grama Panchayath, Thrissur, 
Kerala
09/07/2024
84,000
NA
Valapad & 
Mathilakam 
Gramapanchayth
Valapad & 
Mathilakam 
Gramapanchayth, 
Thrissur,Kerala
31
Donation of 1 vehicle to Daya 
Palliative Care Centre, Pala.
Address: Daya Palliative 
Care Centre, near A. K. M. 
Hall, Kanjirappally, Kottayam, 
Kerala -686507
686507
19/12/2024
5,33,547
CSR00068955
Daya Palliative 
Care Centre
Daya Palliative 
Care Centre, 
near A. K. M. Hall, 
Kanjirappally, 
Kottayam, 
Kerala-686507
32
3 Dialysis machines to 
Peringottukara Dialysis Centre, 
Address: Peringottukara 
Dialysis Centre, Thannyam 
Thrissur, Kerala, 680564
680564
13-05-2024
19,50,000
CSR00014994
Peringottukara 
Dialysis Centre
Peringottukara 
Dialysis Centre 
Thannyam Thrissur, 
Kerala, 680564
33
Donation of vehicle to TB 
Centre Thrissur
Address: Thattil Building, Near 
District Hospital, St Thomas 
College Road, Thrissur HO, 
Kerala-680001
680001
19-12-2024
633,547
NA
TB Centre
TB Centre, Thattil 
Building, Near 
District Hospital, 
St Thomas College 
Road, Thrissur HO, 
Kerala-680001
34
Construction of toilet to 
Mrs.Tresya W/o Antony 
Neelankavil house, Edavilangu 
Panchayat,Thrissur, Kerala 
-680671
680671
12-08-2024
60,000
NA
Mrs. Tresya
Mrs.Tresya W/o 
Antony Neelankavil 
house, Edavilangu 
Panchayat,Thrissur, 
Kerala-680671
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
138
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
35
Donation of vehicle to 
Valapad Panchayath,Address: 
Valapad Panchayath, Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
680567
20-02-2025
835,000
NA
Valapad 
Panchayth
Valapad Grama 
Panchayath Office, 
P.O Valapad, 
Thrissur, Kerala- 
680567
36
Walking bridge Address: 
Chamakkala beach, 
Edathiruthy, Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
680567
25-11-2024
121,000
NA
Chamakkala 
Beach
Chamakkala 
beach, Edathiruthy, 
Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
37
Water KIOSK at Karayamuttam 
Valapad Gramapanchayath, 
Thrissur, Kerala-680567
680567
24-01-2025
5,10,000
NA
Valapad 
Gramapanchayath
Karayamuttam, 
Valapad 
Gramapanchayath, 
Thrissur, Kerala- 
680567
38
Water well for Ms.Lilly 
Jaison Address: Thekkekara 
House, Potta, Chalakkudy, 
Thrissur,Kerala-680722
680722
29-07-2024
55,000
NA
Ms. Lilly Jaison
Ms.Lilly Jaison, 
Thekkekara House, 
Potta, Chalakkudy, 
Thrissur, 
Kerala-680722
39
Wings on Wheels- Donation of 
75 three-wheeler scooters to 
differently abled people from 
various parts of Kerala
29-06-2024
72,92,288
NA
Differently abled 
people
Across various 
locations in Kerala
40
Desktop to Kattoor Police 
Station Address: 95J2+4HG, 
Irinjalakuda Kattoor Rd, 
Kattoor Town, Kattoor, Thrissur, 
Kerala 680702
680702
29-07-2024
38,350
NA
Kattoor Police 
Station
Kattoor Police 
Station Address: 
95J2+4HG, 
Irinjalakuda 
Kattoor Rd, Kattoor 
Town, Kattoor, 
Thrissur,Kerala 
680702
41
Water Cooler to Family Health 
Centre, Arimboor, Thrissur, 
Kerala, 680620
680620
30-08-2024
37,500
NA
Arimbur Family 
Health Centre
Arimbur Family 
Health Centre, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
-680620
42
Inverter to Valapad Village 
Office, Edamuttam P O Valapad 
Thrissur, Kerala-680567
680567
18-09-2024
74,426
NA
Valapad Village 
Office
Valapad 
Village Office, 
Edamuttam P O 
Valapad Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
43
Desktop to Anthikkad Police 
Station, Anthikkad P O Thrissur, 
Kerala-680641
680641
05-12-2024
91,400
NA
Anthikkad Police 
Station
Anthikkad Police 
Station, Anthikkad 
P O Thrissur, 
Kerala-680641
44
Desktop to Government 
Women and Children’s 
Hospital Mattanchery, 
Ernakulam, Kerala-682002
682002
05-12-2024
82,200
NA
Government 
Women and 
Children’s Hospital 
Mattanchery
Government 
Women and 
Children’s Hospital 
Mattanchery 
Ernakulam, 
Kerala-682002
45
Equipmets to Chavakkad Taluk 
Office, address: H2JC+JQ9, 
Vanjikadavu Rd, Chavakkad, 
Thrissur,Kerala 680506
680506
08-08-2024
1,39,482
NA
Chavakkad Taluk 
Office
Chavakkad Taluk 
Office, H2JC+JQ9, 
Vanjikadavu 
Rd, Chavakkad, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680506
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
139
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
46
Dormitory room Kattoor Police 
Station, address: 95J2+4HG, 
Irinjalakuda Kattoor Rd, 
Kattoor Town, Thrissur,Kerala 
680702
680702
24-10-2024
70,000
NA
Kattoor police 
Station
Kattoor Police 
Station 95J2+4HG, 
Irinjalakuda Kattoor 
Rd, Kattoor Town, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680702
47
Furniture to Sub Registrar 
Office Thriprayar, Address: 
C447+VQJ, E Thippusultan 
Road, Triprayar, Thrissur, 
Kerala 680576
680576
27-11-2024
48,800
NA
Subregistrar 
Office Thriprayar
Subregistrar 
Office Thriprayar, 
C447+VQJ, E 
Thippusultan Road, 
Triprayar, Thrissur, 
Kerala 680576
48
UPS &Battery to Chamakkala 
Family Health Centre, 
9426+9GH, Chamakkala Beach 
Rd, Palapetty,Thrissur, Kerala 
680687
680687
16-01-2025
60,262
NA
Chamakkala 
Family Health 
Centre
Chamakkala 
Family Health 
Centre, 9426+9GH, 
Chamakkala Beach 
Rd, Palapetty, 
Thrissur,Kerala 
680687
49
2 desktops and 10 chairs 
to Nanan Memorial Library, 
Mathilakam, Thrissur, 
Kerala-680691
680691
20-03-2025
10,100
NA
Nanan Memorial 
Library. 
Mathilakam
Nanan Memorial 
Library, 
Mathilakam, 
Thrissur, 
Kerala-680691
50
Furniture to Excise Range 
Office, Vatanappilly, Thrissur, 
Kerala, 680567
680567
26-03-2025
23,800
NA
Excise 
Range Office, 
Vatanappilly
Excise Range 
Office, Vatanappilly, 
Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
51
Computer lab equipments to 
St.Thomas College Address: St. 
Thomas College Road, Thrissur 
HO-680001, Kerala, India
680001
23-09-2024
4,30,000
CSR00023317
St. Thomas 
College
St. Thomas College 
Road, Thrissur 
HO-680001, Kerala, 
India
52
10 Air Coolers to Govt. College 
of Arts and Science Vypin 
Address: Elamkunnapuzha, 
Kochi, Kerala 682503
682503
29-07-2024
1,88,000
NA
Govt. College of 
Arts and Science 
Vypin
Govt. College 
of Arts and 
Science Vypin, 
Elamkunnapuzha, 
Kochi, Kerala 
682503
53
2 desktops to P K Kalan 
Memorial College of Applied 
Science Address: Nallurnad 
P.O., Mananthavady, Wayanad, 
Kerala, PIN Code 670645
670645
23-08-2024
94,400
NA
P K Kalan 
Memorial College 
of Applied Science
P K Kalan Memorial 
College of Applied 
Science, Nallurnad 
P.O., Mananthavady, 
Wayanad, Kerala, 
PIN Code 670645
54
1Printer to Kaipamangalam 
Police Station Address: 
84P9+MG3, Thrissur, Kerala 
680681
680681
10-10-2024
66,000
NA
Kaipamangalam 
Police Station
Kaipamangalam 
Police Station, 
84P9+MG3, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680681
55
Renovation of college hall at 
College of
Applied Science
Nattika,Tippu
Sulthan Rd, near
Valapad High
School, P.O, Nattika,
Valapad, Thrissur,
Kerala 680567
680567
24-04-2024
50,000
NA
College of Applied 
Science, Nattika
College of 
Applied Science 
Nattika,Tippu 
Sulthan Rd, near 
Valapad High 
School, P.O, Nattika, 
Valapad, Thrissur, 
Kerala 680567
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
140
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
56
Projector and Canon Ink-jet
Printer to The Government
Model Girls Higher Secondary
School, Address: Palace Road,
Chembukkav, Thrissur, Kerala
680020
680020
06-02-2025
34,000
NA
The Government 
Model Girls 
Higher Secondary 
School, Thrissur
The Government 
Model Girls Higher 
Secondary School, 
Palace Road, 
Chembukkav, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680020
57
5 desktops to Community 
Health Centre, Thriprayar, 
Thrissur, Kerala-680566
680566
04-07-2024
60,000
NA
Community 
Health Centre, 
Thriprayar
Community 
Health Centre, 
Thriprayar, Thrissur, 
Kerala-680566
58
2 Drones to The Forest 
department Wayanad, Kerala
06-07-2024
3,28,040
NA
Forest 
Department, 
Wayanad
Forest Department, 
Wayanad, Kerala
59
1 Advance cochlear hearing 
aid to Mr.Joseph Shijo, 
Address: Valikulath House, 
Murickassery P O Idukki Dist. 
Kerala- 685604
685604
31-10-2024
5,19,750
NA
Mr. Joseph Shijo
Mr.Joseph Shijo 
Valikulath House, 
Murickassery P O 
Idukki Dist. Kerala- 
685604
60
Electric Wheel Chair to Jubilee 
mission hospital, P B No. 737, 
Thrissur, Kerala-680005
680005
23-09-2024
1,23,810
NA
Jubilee Mission 
Hospital, Thrissur
Jubilee Mission 
Hospital, 
P.B.No.737, 
Thrissur, Kerala - 
680 005
61
Equipments to Childrens 
Park of Mother Theresa 
special school for mentally 
handicapped children, 
Uzhavoor P O Kottayam, 
Kerala-686634
686634
07-02-2025
1,15,360
CSR00078949
Mother Theresa 
special school 
for mentally 
handicapped 
children, Uzhavoor
Mother Theresa 
special school 
for mentally 
handicapped 
children, Uzhavoor 
P O Kottayam, 
Kerala-686634
62
2 desktops to Sub District 
Educational Development 
Committee, Valapad, Thrissur, 
Kerala- 680567
680567
22-01-2025
1,18,600
NA
Sub District 
Educational 
Development 
Committee, 
Valapad
Sub District 
Educational 
Development 
Committee, 
Valapad, Thrissur, 
Kerala- 680567
63
Hearing aid to Mr. Abdul 
Hakkim M N, Address: 
Mangattu House, Cherpu P O 
Thrissur, Kerala-680561
680561
17-12-2024
84,000
NA
Mr.Abdul Hakkim 
M N
Mr.Abdul Hakkim 
M N Mangattu 
House, Cherpu 
P O Thrissur, 
Kerala-680561
64
Water Cooler to Primary 
Health Centre, Arimbur, 
Thrissur, Kerala-680620
680620
02-12-2024
89,500
NA
Primary Health 
Centre, Arimbur
Primary Health 
Centre, Arimbur, 
Thrissur, 
Kerala-680620
65
Air Conditioner to Valapad 
Police Station, Valapad, 
Thrissur, Kerala-680567
680567
15-04-2024
28,179
NA
Valapad Police 
Station
Valapad Police 
Station, Valapad, 
Thrissur, 
Kerala-680567
66
Incinataor to Joseph 
Mundassery Memorial High 
School Kandassankadavu, 
Thrissur, Kerala, 680613
680613
09-10-2024
26,000
NA
Joseph 
Mundassery 
Memorial 
High School 
Kandassankadavu
Joseph 
Mundassery 
Memorial 
High School 
Kandassankadavu, 
Thrissur, Kerala, 
680613
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
141
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(In ` million)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
67
Purchase of 2 water purifier 
to Government Model Higher 
Secondary School for Boys, 
Palace Rd, Chembukkav, 
Thrissur, Kerala 680020
680020
02-12-2024
89,500
NA
Government 
Model Higher 
Secondary School 
for Boys, Thrissur
Government 
Model Higher 
Secondary School 
for Boys, Palace 
Rd, Chembukkav, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680020
68
Equipments to Taluk Office, 
Chavakkad, Thrissur,Kerala 
680506
680506
08-08-2024
79,482
NA
Taluk Office 
Chavakkad
Taluk Office, 
Chavakkad, 
Thrissur, Kerala 
680506
69
85 Houses constructed for 
homeless BPL families of 
Kerala Address: Multiple 
locations in Kerala
NA
31-03-2025
1,65,13,268
NA
Various Individual 
beneficiaries
Multiple locations 
across Kerala.
70
8 Houses constructed under 
Home for homeless projects in 
Kerala in association with Lions 
Club International Foundation 
Address: Multiple locations in 
Kerala
NA
31-03-2025
41,17,885
NA
Various Individual 
beneficiaries
Multiple locations 
across Kerala.
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub - 
section (5) of section 135 – NA
NB: Amount of `41,17,885 spent in the nature of donation towards Lions Club International Foundation for construction of 8 houses 
under the project “Home for homeless” in multiple locations in the state of Kerala is treated as amount spent towards eligible CSR 
activities pursuant to the provisions of the Act.
Place: Valapad 
Date: 11th July 2025
Sd,
Shailesh. J. Mehta
Chairman
(DIN: 01633893)
Sd
V.P.  Nandakumar
MD & CEO
(DIN: 00044512)
Sd
E.K. Bharat Bhushan
Chairman, CSR committee
(DIN: 01124966)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
142
Annexure-2
I, V. P. Nandakumar, Managing Director & CEO of Manappuram Finance Limited, hereby confirm that the Company has received the 
following declarations and confirmations from all the Independent Directors for the financial year 2024-25
1.	
Declaration under Section 149(6) and Section 149(7) of the Companies Act, 2013, confirming that they meet the criteria of 
independence as prescribed under the Act, and that they have not been disqualified from continuing as Independent Directors.
2.	
Declaration under Regulation 16(1)(b) and Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, affirming their status as Independent Directors and confirming that they are not aware of any circumstance 
or situation which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties 
independently.
3.	
Annual affirmation under Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013 – Code for Independent Directors, stating their continued 
compliance with the professional conduct, roles, functions, and duties laid down therein.
4.	
Undertaking and declaration on “Fit and Proper” criteria as per the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Master 
Direction - Scale Based Regulation (SBR), 2021, confirming that they fulfill the eligibility norms and are not disqualified from 
being appointed or continuing as directors of a Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC), including criteria under:
	
•	
RBI Master Direction DNBR.PD.008/03.10.119/2016-17, and any subsequent amendments;
	
•	
Guidelines on Corporate Governance as applicable to NBFCs;
	
•	
RBI Circular on Corporate Governance dated October 11, 2022 (DoR.GOV.REC.40/18.03.001/2022-23).
All declarations have been duly noted and taken on record by the Board of Directors. These documents form part of the Company’s 
records for statutory and regulatory compliance.
 
Date: 11th July 2025	
Sd/-
Place: Valapd 	
V. P. Nandakumar
Managing Director & CEO
Manappuram Finance Limited
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
143
Annexure –3
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE OUTGO
The information pursuant to Section 134(3) (m) of the Act read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is as follows:
A.	
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
i.	
the steps taken or impact on conservation of 
energy:
	
We at Manappuram are inclined to go for conservation of 
energy by encouraging adoption of go green initiatives. 
However, the Company follows the practice of purchasing 
and using energy-efficient electrical or electronic 
equipment and gadgets for its operations. Additionally, 
optimal use of technology may also lead to substantial 
conservation of energy. We have installed Energy Efficient 
VRF Type Air Conditioners in our new Offices opened during 
this year, namely Olive Plaza, Edamuttam, H.O. Asirvad, both 
at Valapad, H.O Manappuram Home Finance Ltd. All The 
Lights are energy efficient LED Lights.
ii.	
the steps taken by the Company for utilising 
alternate sources of energy:
	
The Company is exploring the potential of using alternate 
sources of energy including solar energy and will continue 
to explore alternative sources of energy in future. During the 
Financial Year 2024-2025, we have saved Conventional 
Electrical Energy to the tune of 67670 Units (KWh) equaling 
` 627728/- due to Solar Plant installed in previous years.
iii.	
the capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment:
	
Total capital Investment during the year 2024-25
Sl. 
No
Particulars
In Amount
1
Solar Power Panel Installation 
30 kW Roof Top Residential 
Building
` 15,00,000 /-
iv.	
Proposal for FY 2025-26.
Sl. 
No
Particulars
In Amount
1
Solar Power Plant Roof Top 
Karayamuttam Villa 12 kW
4,20,000
2
Replacement of one of the two 
units of existing Chiller Plant with 
energy efficient Chiller in Corp 
office Building Valapad: Estimated 
Investment Payback period - 4.5 
Years Annual Savings Envisaged
44,00,000 - 
10,45,000
B.	
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
(i)	
the efforts made towards technology absorption: 
	
Our organisation has been a one of the largest NBFC 
in India, has made significant strides in technology 
absorption to enhance efficiency and customer experience. 
We have digitalised the customer onboarding process 
using advanced AI based solutions, ensuring a seamless 
and swift registration experience. The CKYC process has 
been automated through Robotic Process Automation 
(RPA), significantly reducing manual intervention and 
processing time. In our Non-Gold Loan (NGL) divisions, 
we have integrated account aggregators into our Unified 
Loan Origination System (LOS) platform, streamlining data 
aggregation and loan processing.
(ii)	 the benefits derived like product improvement, 
cost reduction, product development or import 
substitution:
	
Furthermore, we have implemented the UPI reverse 
penny drop service in our gold loan segment, enhancing 
the accuracy and reliability of transaction verifications. 
The integration of TransUnion Bureau in our MSME lead 
application process has strengthened our credit assessment 
capabilities, ensuring better risk management. To improve 
EMI collections, we have deployed bot calling technology 
across various Non gold loan verticals, increasing 
efficiency and reducing human error. These advancements 
underscore our commitment to leveraging technology to 
drive innovation, improve service quality, and maintain our 
leadership in the industry.
(iii)	 in case of imported technology (imported during 
the last three years reckoned from the beginning 
of the financial year): Not Applicable
C.	
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo during the 
financial year 2024-25:
Sl. No. Particulars
` in Million
1
Total Foreign Exchange earned
38.35
2
Total Foreign Exchange 
expended
34.47
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
144
Annexure - 4
MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH 2025
To
The Members,
Manappuram Finance Limited,
W - 4/ 638 A, Manappuram House,
Valapad - 680567, Thrissur,
Chavakkad, Kerala
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date of Manappuram Finance Limited (CIN: L65910KL1992PLC006623) (hereinafter called “the 
Company”) is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
3.	
Further, our audit report is limited to the verification and reporting of the statutory compliances on laws / regulations / guidelines 
listed in our report and the same pertain to the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2025.
4.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
5.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
6. 	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
7.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Date: 11th July 2025		
	
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For KSR & Co Company Secretaries LLP
Place: Coimbatore	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Dr. C. V. Madhusudhanan,
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FCS:5367; CP:4408
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FRN: P2008TN006400
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
UDIN: F005367G000755655
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
P.R. No: 2635/2022
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
145
MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To
The Members,
Manappuram Finance Limited,
W - 4/ 638 A, Manappuram House,
Valapad - 680567, Thrissur,
Chavakkad, Kerala
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Manappuram Finance Limited (CIN: 
L65910KL1992PLC006623) (hereinafter called “the Company”). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted for the financial year ended 
31st March 2025 in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorised representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on 31st March 2025, complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the Financial year ended on 31st March 2025, according to the 
provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder 
to the extent applicable;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the 
rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992:
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture 
Trustees) Regulations, 1993;
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act,2013 and dealing with client;
(e)	
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 to the extent 
applicable to an equity and debt listed company;
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulation,2021.
	
(i)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulation 2018; (pertaining to the 
obligation of the listed entity)
	
(vi)	 The other laws as applicable specifically to the 
company and as examined by us are stated hereunder:
	
	
(a)	
The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
	
	
(b)	
Master Direction- Non-Banking Financial 
Company 
Returns 
(Reserve 
Bank) 
Directions, 2016;
	
	
(c)	
Non-Banking Financial Companies – Corporate 
Governance (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2015;
	
	
(d)	
Master Direction- Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company-Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 (Limited to 
Corporate Governance Compliance)
	
	
(e)	
Raising Money through Private Placement of 
Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) by NBFCs 
– RBI Guidelines
	
(vii)	 We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
146
	
	
(a)	
Secretarial Standards on Board Meetings and 
General Meetings issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
	
	
(b)	
The Listing Agreement entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited for listing its equity and 
debt securities.
	
(viii)	 Based on the information and explanation provided to 
us, the Company had no transactions during the period 
covered under the Audit requiring the compliance of 
the provisions of:
	
	
(a)	
Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct 
Investment;
	
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; and
	
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
	
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
	
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of 
Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors, Woman 
Director and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during 
the period under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, except in case of 
shorter notice, where proper consent was taken. Further, a 
system exists for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
	
Majority decision is carried through and recorded as part 
of the minutes. There were no dissenting members’ views 
required to be captured in the minutes.
	
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
	
We further report that the following specific events / actions 
had/shall have a major bearing on the company’s affairs in 
pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, standards, etc. referred to above:
	
(i)	
The Company has raised an amount of ` 450 crore 
(Secured Listed Rated Redeemable Non-Convertible 
Debenture of (Face value of 1,00,000/- per debenture) 
on a private placement basis.
	
The aforesaid borrowings by the Company were within the 
overall limits approved by the shareholders of the company 
under Section 180[1( c)] of Companies Act, 2013.
	
Date: 11th July 2025		
	
 	
	
	
	
	
	
For KSR & Co Company Secretaries LLP
	
Place: Coimbatore	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Dr. C. V. Madhusudhanan,
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FCS:5367; CP:4408
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FRN: P2008TN006400
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
UDIN: F005367G000755655
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
P.R. No: 2635/2022
Board’s Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
147
Annexure - 5
REMUNERATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 197 (12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 5 OF
THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
i.  	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, and Company Secretary during the financial 
2024-25, ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
financial year 2024-25 and the comparison of remuneration of each Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) against the performance 
of the Company are as under:
Sl 
No.
Name of Director/ KMP and designation
% Increase in 
Remuneration in the 
Financial Year 2024-25
Ratio of remuneration of 
each Director/KMP/to 
median remuneration of 
employees
1.
Mr. V P Nandakumar (MD & CEO)
7.07
729.47
2.
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta (Chairperson)
59.90
66.31
3.
Mr. P Manomohanan (Director)
(69.23)
4.28
4.
Adv. V R Ramachandran (Director)
(77.55)
4.06
5.
Mr. Abhijit Sen (Director)
41.07
29.39
6.
Mr. Harshan Kollara (Director)
21.75
19.73
7.
Mr. S R Balasubramanian (Director)
(98.37)
.18
8.
Ms. Pratima Ram
9.24
14.98
9.
Adv.V.P.Seemandini
12.65
14.23
10.
Mr. T C Suseel Kumar
213.25
14.54
11.
Mr. Rajagopal
409.94
14.36
12.
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan
1332.89
14.06
13.
Dr. Sumitha Nandan V (Executive Director)
57.64
80.27
14.
Ms. Bindu A L (CFO)
6.85
59.28
15.
Mr. Manoj Kumar V R (CS)
(15.56)
13.96
i.	
The median remuneration of employees of the Company during the financial year 2024-25 was 0.30 million.
ii.	
In the financial year, there was an increase of 5% in the median remuneration of employees.
iii.	
There were 32744 permanent employees on the rolls of Company as on 31st March, 2025
iv.	
Average percentage increase made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year 
i.e., 2024-25 was 3.31% whereas the increase in the managerial remuneration for the same financial year was 19%.
v.	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, and 
other Employees
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
148
Corporate Governance Report
Your directors present the Company’s Report on Corporate 
Governance for the year ended March 31, 2025 in terms of 
Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(‘Listing Regulations”) as amended from time to time. This report 
on corporate governance forms part of the Annual Report. 
The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) defines 
Corporate Governance is the application of best management 
practices, compliance of law in true letter and spirit and 
adherence to ethical standards for effective management and 
distribution of wealth and discharge of social responsibility for 
sustainable development of all stakeholders.
1.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CODE OF 
GOVERNANCE
	
Your company is committed to practice good Corporate 
Governance standards in adherence to the RBI guideline/ 
directions, the Listing Regulations, the Companies Act, 2013 
(the “Act”) along with respective rules, circulars, notifications 
issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), and the Master 
Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial 
Company - Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 (“SBR 
Directions”) and other applicable laws for the time being 
in force. The prime objective is optimisation of shareholder 
value by ensuring effective and cordial relationship with 
them and protecting their interests. Good governance in a 
company helps to develop the confidence, responsibility, 
and transparency which is necessary to attract long term 
investment, financial resilience and ethical conduct of 
business which in turn helps in substantial growth and 
development. Your Company believes that its business 
plans and strategy should be consistent with the above 
objective and thereby leading to sustained corporate growth 
and long-term benefit to all stakeholders. The principles of 
Corporate Governance Standards of the company place 
strong emphasis on transparency, accountability and 
integrity. Your company follows these principles in all its 
business decisions and dealings.
	
Your Company believes that good corporate governance 
results from sound business decision wherein the directors 
are provided with accurate and timely information, and 
professionalism in all decisions. The business judgment 
of the Board must be exercised independently and in the 
long-term interests of shareholders.
	
Your Company is in compliance with the requirements 
of corporate governance, as applicable, specified in 
regulations 17 to 27 read with Schedule V and clauses (b) 
to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 of the Listing 
Regulations and the Act. The Company is also in compliance 
with the Corporate Governance and Disclosure norms for 
NBFCs issued by SBR Directions.
	
Your Company has adopted Manappuram Code of Practices 
and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (“Code of Fair Disclosure”) and 
Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report Trading 
by Insiders (“Code of Conduct”) and also adopted Internal 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance in compliance with 
SBR Directions. These codes are available in the Company 
website - https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes. 
Pursuant to the provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations 2015 (“PIT Regulations”), the Company 
has a Structured Digital Database in place and is maintained 
as stipulated by the Regulation.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
a.	
Composition of the Board
	
Your Company has formulated a Board Appointments, 
Composition, & Compensation Policy  to have a competent 
and highly professional team of Board members with 
expertism in different segment. The Board of Directors of 
your Company has an optimum combination of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the 
requirements of Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations, 
and Section 149 of the Act. There are Ten Directors on 
the Board of the Company having diverse experience and 
expertise in their respective areas. The composition of 
the Board meets the criteria as prescribed in the Listing 
Regulations, and the Act. This composition also fulfills the 
norms prescribed by Reserve Bank of India in this regard.
	
As on March 31, 2025, out of the (10) Ten Directors, (2) 
Two are Executive Directors, (8) Eight are Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Out of (8) Eight Independent 
Directors (2) Two Independent Directors are woman 
directors.
	
Board Appointments, Composition, & Compensation Policy 
is in place for ascertaining the fit and proper criteria of the 
Directors at the time of appointment and on a continuing 
basis. The policy on the fit and proper criteria is in line 
with SBR Directions and all existing Directors are fit and 
proper to continue to hold the appointment as a Director in 
the Board.
	
All the Independent Directors have confirmed that they 
meet the criteria as mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) 
of the Listing Regulations read with Section 149(6) of the 
Act along with rules made thereunder and have furnished 
individual declarations to the Board that they qualify the 
conditions of being an Independent Director in compliance 
of requirements under Listing Regulations and the Act. 
Based on the declarations received from the Independent 
Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that they 
met the criteria of independence as mentioned under 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations and that 
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
149
they are independent of the management. Further, the 
Board is satisfied of the integrity, expertise, and experience 
(including proficiency in terms of Section 150(1) of the 
Act and applicable rules thereunder) of all Independent 
Directors on the Board.
	
The Independent Directors have confirmed that they have 
included their names in the data bank of Independent 
Directors maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs in terms of Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 6 
of the Companies (Appointment & Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014. None of the Independent Directors are 
related to any other Directors on the Board of Directors 
in terms of the definition of “relative” given under the Act. 
Necessary disclosures regarding committee positions in 
other public companies as at March 31, 2025 have been 
made by the Directors. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the 
Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not 
aware of any circumstance or situation that exists or may 
be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties.
	
None of the Directors on the Board hold directorships in 
more than ten public companies. Further none of them is a 
member of more than ten committees or chairman of more 
than five committees across all the public companies in 
which he/she is a director as per disclosures received from 
the respective directors regarding committee positions 
in other public companies during the year under review. 
None of the Directors, except Directors under promoter 
group (executive Directors) are related to each other.
	
The Maximum gap between two meetings was not more 
than one hundred and twenty days. As mandated by proviso 
under Regulation 17A(1) of the the Listing Regulations, as 
on March 31, 2025, None of the Independent Directors of 
the Company hold independent directorship in more than 
seven listed companies. None of them serving as a whole 
time Director in any listed company.
b.	
Meeting of Independent Directors
	
In compliance with requirement under Schedule IV of 
the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, a separate meeting 
of Independent Directors of the Company was held on 
March 19, 2025 during the year. The meeting was attended 
by all the Independent Directors. The Independent Directors, 
inter- alia, reviewed the performance of non-independent 
Directors, Chairman of the Company and the Board as a 
whole along with various matters as required under the Act 
and SEBI Listing Regulations.
c.	
Attendance of each director at the meeting of the board of directors and the last annual general meeting
	
The composition and attendance of the members in the Board meetings held during the FY 2024-25 and the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) held on the August 14, 2024 are as follows:
SL 
NO
Name of Director
Category of Directors
No. of Board 
Meetings 
attended during 
the F.Y 2024-25
Whether 
attended the last 
AGM held on 
14.08.2024
1
Mr. V.P. Nandakumar, (DIN: 00044512) 
MD & CEO
Promoter, Non-Independent, 
Executive
12
Yes
2
Ms. Pratima Ram (DIN: 03518633)
Independent, Non-Executive
12
No
3
Mr. Abhijit Sen (DIN: 00002593)
Independent, Non-Executive
12
Yes
4
Mr. Harshan Kollara (DIN: 01519810)
Independent, Non-Executive
12
Yes
5
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta DIN: 01633893)
Independent Non -Executive
12
Yes
6
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN: 03625120)
Promoter Group, Non-Independent 
Executive Director
10
Yes
7
Adv. V.P. Seemandini(DIN: 07850522)
Independent Non -Executive
8
Yes
8
Mr. T C Suseel Kumar (DIN: 06453310)
Independent Non -Executive
10
Yes
9
Mr. Rajagopal (DIN: 10087762)
Independent Non -Executive
12
Yes
10
Mr. E.K. Bharath Bhushan  
(DIN: 01124966)
Independent Non -Executive
10
Yes
11
Mr. Manomohanan P. (DIN: 00042836)
Independent Non -Executive
2
No
12
Adv. V.R. Ramachandran  
(DIN: 00046848)
Independent Non -Executive
2
No
13
Mr. S.R. Balasubramanian  
(DIN: 03200547)
Independent Non -Executive
1
No
1.	
Mr. V.P. Nandakumar (DIN:00044512) has been re-appointed as MD & CEO of the Company w.e.f. April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2029, pursuant to 
the shareholders’ approval at their Annual general meeting held on August 17, 2023.
2.	
Mr. P. Manomohanan and Mr. V.R. Ramachandran, Independent Directors of the Company had completed their first tenure of 5 years on 31st 
July 2019 and thereafter re-appointed for a further period of 5 years through the postal ballot held on March 2019. Hence, their second tenure 
ended on 31-07-2024.
3.	
Mr. S. R. Balasubramanian resigned w.e.f. 09.05.2024.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
150
There was no change in Key Managerial Personnel during the FY 2024-25.
d.	
Number of other board of directors or committees in which a directors is a member or chairperson & names of 
the listed entities where the person is a director and the category of directorship (As on March 31, 2025)
SL. 
No
Name of Director
Category of 
Directors
Date of 
Appointment/ 
Re-
appointment
Details of 
membership in 
Committees of the 
Board*
Number of 
Directorships in 
Companies**
Name of listed entity and the 
category of Directorship
Chairman Member Member Chairman
Name of the 
Company
Category
1
Mr. V.P. 
Nandakumar, 
(DIN: 00044512) 
MD & CEO
Promoter, 
non-
independent, 
Executive
17-08-2023
0
3
1
0
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Non-
Independent, 
Executive
2
Ms. Pratima Ram 
(DIN: 03518633)
Independent, 
non-
executive
01-04-2024
1
6
2
0
Minda Corporation 
Limited
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent,
non-executive
Independent,
non-executive
3
Mr. Abhijit Sen 
(DIN: 00002593)
Independent, 
non-
executive
27-08-2024
3
4
2
0
Kalyani Forge Ltd
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent,
non-executive
Independent,
non-executive
4
Mr. Harshan 
Kollara (DIN: 
01519810)
Independent, 
non-
executive
28-08-2020
0
1
1
0
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent, 
non-executive
5
Mr. Shailesh 
J. Mehta (DIN: 
01633893)
Independent 
non-
executive
28-08-2020
0
2
2
1
India Shelter Finance 
Corporation Limited
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Non-Executive 
Nominee 
Director
Independent,
non-executive
6
Dr. Sumitha 
Nandan (DIN: 
03625120)
Promoter 
Group, Non-
independent, 
Executive 
Director
01-01-2023
0
1
1
0
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Non-
independent, 
Executive 
Director
7
Adv. V.P. 
Seemandini (DIN: 
07850522)
Independent 
non-
executive
23-12-2022
0
0
1
0
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent 
non-executive
8
Mr. T.C. Suseel 
Kumar
Independent 
non-
executive
01-11-2023
3
6
3
0
First Source Ltd
PCBL Chemical Ltd
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent 
non-executive
Independent 
non-executive
Independent 
non-executive
9
Mr. Sankaran Nair 
Rajagopal (DIN: 
10087762
Independent 
non-
executive
01.01.2024
0
2
1
0
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent 
non-executive
10
Mr. E.K. Bharath 
Bhushan (DIN: 
01124966)
Independent 
non-executive
01.03.2024
2
3
1
0
Manappuram 
Finance Ltd
Independent 
non-executive
1.	
*As required by Clause 26(1)(b) of the  Listing Regulations, the disclosures include Membership/ Chairpersonship of Audit Committee and 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Companies including Manappuram Finance Limited.
2.	
** Only listed entities including Manappuram Finance Limited are shown
3.	
Directorship exclude Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies.
4.	
Details of Director(s) retiring or being re-appointed are given in Notice to Annual General Meeting
5.	
There are no inter-se relationship between our Board Members except Executive Directors.
6.	
Other directorships mentioned above do not include alternate directorships, directorships of private limited companies, Section 8 companies 
under the Act and of Companies incorporated outside India.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
151
e.	
Number of meetings of the board of directors held 
and dates on which held 
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25 the Board met on (12) 
Twelve occasions viz.09.05.2024, 24.05.2024, 01.08.2024, 
13.08.2024, 25.09.2024, 22.10.2024, 05.11.2024, 
14.12.2024, 10.01.2025, 13.02.2025, 20.03.2025 and 
29.03.2025. The notes on Agenda setting out the business 
to be transacted at the Board meeting were sent to each 
director seven days before the date of the Board Meeting 
except for the meetings which were convened at shorter 
notice. Your Board has met at least once in a quarter and 
the gap between any two meetings did not exceed 120 
days. Generally, all these Board Meetings were held in 
video conferencing / other audio-visual mode as allowed 
under applicable law. The requisite quorum was present at 
all meetings.
	
Information provided to the Board Members
	
The Board agenda with proper explanatory notes is prepared 
and circulated well in advance to all the Board Members 
as required to be statutorily provided pursuant to the Act. 
All statutory and other matters of significant importance 
including information as mentioned in Section 179 of the 
Act and Regulation 17 read with Part A of Schedule II of the 
Listing Regulations are tabled before the Board of Directors 
to enable them to discharge their responsibility of strategic 
supervision of the Company.
	
The Board periodically reviews the statement submitted 
by the unlisted subsidiaries on all significant transactions 
and arrangements entered into by it during that period. 
The Board also reviews periodical compliances of all 
applicable laws, rules and regulations. At the Board Meeting, 
members have full freedom to express their opinion and 
decisions were taken only after detailed deliberations.
f.	
Disclosure of relationships between directors 
inter-se;
	
There is no relationship between Directors inter-se 
except below.
	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan (DIN:03625120) Executive Director 
is the daughter of Mr. V.P. Nandakumar (DIN:00044512), 
Managing Director & CEO of the Company
g.	
Number of shares and convertible instruments held by non- executive directors as on 31.03.2025
Sl. No
Name of Director
Category of Directors
Shareholding of  
Non-Executive Directors
1
Ms. Pratima Ram (DIN: 03518633)
Independent, Non-Executive
0
2
Mr. Abhijit Sen (DIN: 00002593)
Independent, Non-Executive
0
3
Mr. Harshan Kollara (DIN: 01519810)
Independent, Non-Executive
0
4
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta DIN: 01633893)
Independent Non -Executive
5,00,000
5
Adv. V P Seemanthini (DIN: 07850522)
Independent Non -Executive
0
6
Mr. T C Suseel Kumar (DIN: 06453310)
Independent Non -Executive
0
7
Mr. Rajagopal (DIN: 10087762)
Independent Non -Executive
0
8
Mr. E.K. Bharath Bhushan (DIN: 01124966)
Independent Non -Executive
0
h.	
 Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and Regulation 25(7) 
of the Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a 
mechanism to familiarise its Independent Directors about 
the Company, its products, the industry, business structure 
and regulatory changes that affects the Company and 
its subsidiary. All Board members of the Company are 
accorded every opportunity to familiarise themselves with 
the Company, its management, its operations and above 
all, the industry legal & regulatory changes perspective 
and issues.
	
The Company also undertakes various initiatives to update 
the Independent Directors about the ongoing events and 
developments relating to the Company, significant changes 
in regulatory environment and implications on the Industry/
Company. To familiarise the new directors with the business 
and operations of the Company an Induction kit is shared 
with them which, inter-alia, includes Mission, Vision and 
Values, Group Business Structure, Brief profile of the Board 
of Directors, Composition of Committees of the Board, Brief 
profile of Senior Management Personnel, Press Releases, 
Investor Presentation, Latest Annual Report, Latest 
Shareholding Pattern, Codes and Policies and Remuneration 
payable to directors. Furthermore, the role, rights, 
responsibilities, duties and liabilities of the Independent 
Directors are embodied in detail in their Appointment Letter.
	
On March 19, 2025, a familiarisation program was held 
for Board members, led by Mr. C.V. Madhusoodhanan, 
Partner, KSR&CO, Company Secretaries LLP. The main 
focus was on “SEBI Circular on the Industry Standards on 
Minimum information to be provided for review of the Audit 
Committee and shareholders for approval of a related party 
transaction.”
	
Details regarding familiarisation programs conducted for 
Directors can be viewed on the Company’s website at https://
www.manappuram.com/familiarization-programme-
independent-directors
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
152
i.	
Skills/expertise/competence identified by the Board of Directors as required in the context of its business(es) 
and sector(s) for it to function effectively and those actually available with the Board:
	
The directors take an active part at the Board and Committee meetings and provide valuable guidance to the senior management 
on various aspects of business and governance. The directors possess necessary experience, skills and ability relevant to the 
Company’s business and affairs which enhances the quality of policy decisions. The following table provides details of the skills/
expertise/competencies identified by the Board of Directors pursuant to Regulation 34(3), read with Schedule V, Part C, clause 
2(h)(ii) of the Listing Regulations.
	
Chart/Matrix Setting Out the Skills/Expertise/Competence of the Board of Directors
Leadership
Extended business leadership experience resulting in a practical understanding of organisational processes, strategic 
planning and risk management.
People Practices
Experience and strengths in developing talent, planning succession, driving change and long-term growth. Understands the 
drivers leading to behavior change.
Financial Control
Leadership of a financial firm or management of the finance function of an enterprise, resulting in proficiency in financial 
management, capital allocation, financial control and reporting processes.
Diversity including gender and occupation
Representation of diversity in terms of gender, geography, culture, occupations that bring varied independent perspectives 
expanding the Board’s understanding of the needs and viewpoints of customers, partners, employees, government, and other 
stakeholders.
Technology
A significant background in technology, resulting in knowledge of how to anticipate technological trends, generate disruptive 
innovation, and extend or create new business models.
Governance
Service on a public company board to develop insights about maintaining board and management governance accountability, 
protecting shareholder interests, and observing appropriate governance practices.
Sales and Marketing
Experience in developing strategies to grow sales and market share, build brand awareness and equity, and enhance 
enterprise reputation
Regulatory
Extended experience and understanding of the regulatory environment operating in the context of the business
Law
Legal background and experience
Financial Services
Extended experience in a financial services firm enabling a rich understanding of the sector and the context.
Sustainability
Experience and exposure in understanding sustainability from the business perspective with regard to employees customers 
and the larger community including the environment.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
153
	
Skills/expertise/competence identified by the Board of Directors actually available with the Board:
Name of Director
Mr. V.P. 
Nandakumar
Mr. Suseel 
Kumar T.C.
Ms. 
Pratima 
Ram
Mr. Abhijit 
Sen
Mr. 
Harshan 
Kollara
Mr. 
Shailesh . 
J. Mehta
Ms. 
Sumitha 
Nandan
Adv. 
Seemanthini
Mr. Raja 
Gopal
Mr. E.K. 
Bharath 
Bhushan
Leadership
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
People Practices
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Financial Control
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Diversity including 
gender and occupation
-
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Technology
-
-
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Governance
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Sales and Marketing
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
-
Yes
Yes
-
-
-
Regulatory
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Law
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Yes
-
Yes
Financial Services
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Sustainability
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
The eligibility of an individual to be appointed as a director 
of the company is dependent on whether the person 
possesses the requisite skill/ knowledge/ expertism in 
financial service industry as identified by the Board as 
mentioned above. Being a company in the financial services 
industry, the Company’s business runs across different 
geographical markets across the country.
	
The brief profile of Directors are also available on the 
website of the Company https://www.manappuram.com/
management-team
i.	
Independence of Independent Directors
	
Pursuant to Clause C (2) (i) of Schedule V read with 
Regulation 34(3) of the Listing Regulations, in the opinion 
of Board, Independent Directors fulfill the conditions as 
specified in the Listing Regulations and independent of the 
Management.
	
There has been no instance where the Board had not 
accepted any recommendation of any committee of 
the Board which is mandatorily required, in the relevant 
financial year.
j. 	
Resignation of Independent Director
	
•	
There was no independent director who resigned from 
the Board during the FY 2024-25.
	
•	
Mr. P. Manomohanan and Mr. V.R. Ramachandran, 
Independent Directors of the Company, completed 
their first tenure of five years on 31st July 2019 and 
were thereafter re-appointed for a further period of five 
years through the postal ballot held in March 2019. 
Accordingly, their second tenure came to an end on 
31st July 2024
3.	
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
The Board has constituted various Sub-Committees of 
the Board as required under the Act, Listing Regulations, 
RBI rules and regulations. Each Committee of the Board 
functions according to the terms of reference as approved 
by the Board. Meeting of each Sub-Committee is convened 
by the respective Committees’ Chairman. The details of 
composition and terms of reference of various Board 
Committees including the number of meetings held 
during the financial year and the related attendance are 
given below:
	
A. 	
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Company has constituted 
a qualified and independent Audit Committee as 
required under Section 177 of theAct read with read 
with Rule 6 & 7 of Companies (Meetings of Board and 
its Powers) Rules, 2014, and Regulation 18 of the 
Listing Regulations. The Committee also fulfils the 
provisions of SBR Directions.
	
	
The Committee has Six members eminently qualified 
to handle accounts, finance, audit and legal matters. 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee met (8) Eight 
times during FY 2024-25 viz 08.05.2024, 24.05.2024, 
12.08.2024, 25.09.2024, 04.11.2024 ,12.02.2025, 
19.03.2025 (Meeting originally held on 19.03.2025 
was adjourned to 20.03.2025 to discuss some urgent 
agenda) and 29.03.2025., The constitution, record of 
attendance of meetings and other details of the Audit 
Committee of the Company are detailed below.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
154
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Chairman
Independent Director
8
8
2
Mr. Shailesh Jayantilal Mehta
Member
Independent Director
8
8
3
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Member
Independent Director
8
8
4
Ms. Pratima Ram
Member
Independent Director
8
8
5
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Member
Executive Director
8
7
6
*Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar
Member
Independent Director
7
6
*The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 09.05.2024 appointed Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar as member in Audit Committee
	
Terms of Reference of Audit Committee
1.	
Oversee the Company’s financial reporting process 
and the disclosure of its financial information to 
ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient 
and credible.
2.	
Recommending to the Board the appointment, 
reappointment, and if required, the replacement or 
removal of the statutory auditor and the fixation of 
audit fee.
3.	
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by the statutory auditors.
4.	
Reviewing with management the annual financial 
statements before submission to the Board for 
approval with particular reference to:
	
a)	
Matters required to be included in the Directors 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the 
board’s report in terms of clause c of Sub-section 
3 of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
b)	
Changes if any in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same.
	
c)	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management.
	
d)	
Significant adjustment made in the financial 
statement arising out of audit findings.
	
e)	
Compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to the financial statements.
	
f)	
Disclosure of any related party transactions.
	
g)	
Qualifications in the draft audit report.
5.	
Reviewing with the management the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the board 
for approval.
6.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/ application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the 
statement of funds utilised for purposes other than 
those stated in the offer document/ prospectus/ 
notice and the report submitted by the monitoring 
agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of 
a public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps in 
this matter;
7.	
Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and 
performance, and effectiveness of audit process;
8.	
Approval or any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the company with related parties;
9.	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
10.	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, 
wherever it is necessary;
11.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
12.	 Reviewing with the management performance of the 
statutory and internal auditors and adequacy of the 
internal control system.
13.	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function 
if any including the structure of internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure coverage 
and frequency of internal audit.
14.	 Discussion with internal auditors regarding any 
significant findings and follow-up thereon.
15.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the Board.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
155
16.	 Discussion with statutory auditors before audit 
commences about the nature and scope of audit as 
well as post-audit discussions to ascertain any area 
of concern.
17.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payments to the depositors, debenture - holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors.
	
18.	 To review the function of whistle blower mechanism 
in case the same exists.
	
19.	 Approval of appointment of CFO (i.e., the whole-time 
Finance Director or any other person heading 
the finance function or discharging that function) 
after assessing the qualifications, experience and 
background, etc. of the candidate;
	
20.	 Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public 
offers and related matters.
	
21.	 Carrying out any other function as mentioned in the 
terms of reference of audit committee.
	
22.	 Reviewing the utilisation of loans and/ or advances 
from/ investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of 
the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans/ advances/ investments 
existing as on the date of coming into force of this 
provision.
	
23.	 Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its 
shareholders.
	
24.	 The Committee must ensure that an Information 
System Audit of the internal systems and processes 
is conducted at least once in two years to assess 
operational risks faced by the entity.
	
25.	 Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
B. 	 NOMINATION, COMPENSATION & CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (NCCGC)
	
The Nomination, Compensation and Corporate Governance 
Committee of the Company was constituted to oversee 
the compliance with the Reserve Bank of India’s Circular/ 
Direction to ensure that eminent and experienced persons 
are appointed as directors. The Committee also meets the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Act, Regulation 19 of the 
Listing Regulations and other RBI Master Directions.
	
The Committee met (5) Five times during FY 2024.25 viz 09.05.2024, 13.08.2024, 05.11.2024, 23.12.2024 and 13.02.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. 
No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Chairman
Independent, Non-Executive
5
5
2
Dr. Shailesh J Mehta
Member
Independent, Non-Executive
5
5
3
Adv. V P. Seemandini
Member
Independent, Non-Executive
5
3
4
*Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal Member
Independent, Non-Executive
4
4
*The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 09.05.2024 appointed Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal as member in the Nomination, Compensation 
and Corporate Governance Committee
Terms of Reference of Nomination, Compensation and 
Corporate Governance Committee
Considering the statutory provisions under Section 178 of the 
Act, provisions of the Listing Regulations and the guidelines 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India on Corporate Governance 
of NBFCs, the role and responsibilities of the committee can be 
classified into three broader categories such as; (I) nomination, 
(II) fixation of remuneration and (III) performance evaluation and 
governance.
The committee shall effectively discharge its roles and 
responsibilities in the following manner:
I.	
Role of Nomination:
a)	
The committee shall formulate and put in place guiding 
principles/ policy to determine the qualities, qualifications, 
positive attributes for selection of Executive, Non-Executive 
directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMP), Senior 
Managerial Personnel (SMP) and also independence of a 
director including the parameters to determine the ‘fit and 
proper’ criteria for appointment of independent Directors 
keeping in mind the diversity quotient the company’s 
board shall maintain from time to time and subject to the 
applicable regulatory requirements.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
156
b)	
Filling in a timely manner vacancy on the board of the 
company including the position of executive/whole time 
directors.
c)	
Selection of directors, key management personnel and 
persons to be appointed in senior management positions 
as defined by the board and recommend to the board for 
their appointment and removal thereof.
d)	
For every appointment of an independent director, the 
NCCGC shall evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, 
prepare a description of the role and capabilities required 
of an independent director. The person recommended to 
the Board for appointment as an independent director 
shall have the capabilities identified in such description. 
For the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, the 
Committee may:
	
i. 	
use the services of an external agencies, if required;
	
ii. 	
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, 
having due regard to diversity; and
	
iii. 	
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
II.	
Role of Fixing Remuneration and Evaluation of 
performance.
a.	
The committee shall formulate and recommend to the 
Board of Directors of the Company for its approval a policy 
relating to the remuneration for the Directors, KMP, SMP* 
and other employees from time to time.
b.	
The policy as aforesaid shall be formulated to ensure that-
	
•	
The level and composition of remuneration is 
reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate directors of the quality required to run the 
company successfully;
	
•	
Relationship of remuneration to performance is clear 
and meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and
	
•	
Remuneration to directors, KMP and SMP involves a 
balance between fixed and incentive pay reflecting 
short and long term performance objectives 
appropriate to the working of the company and 
its goals;
c.	
The committee shall review the performance of individual 
directors of the company on a yearly basis at the end of 
each financial year or at such periodicity as the committee 
deem fit and recommend to the board on the basis of such 
review, whether a director to be recommended for re- 
appointment or not.
d.	
The committee shall review the performance of the 
Executive/Non-Executive Director of the company and 
fix suitable compensation packages in consideration of 
their performance, contributions, the general business 
environment in which the company operates and financial 
position of the company. The remuneration package may 
be a combination of fixed and performance based bonus/
incentives for the period under review.
e.	
The committee shall along with the management review 
the performance of KMP and SMP* persons on a periodical 
basis and fix their remuneration packages in accordance 
with the policies approved by the Board.
III.	
the additional responsibilities: -
1.	
The Committee shall revisit the list of SMP to assess the 
additions to the list.
2.	
The Committee shall recommend remuneration of SMP* 
to the Board
3.	
Formulating Succession Planning for SMP.
4.	
Review and affirm the SMP* shall abide by the code of 
conduct on an annual basis.
5.	
SMP* shall make disclosure to the Board relating to all 
material, Financial and Commercial transactions, where 
they have a personal interest that may have a potential 
conflict with the interest of the Company at a large.
	
(*For the purpose of this Code the term ‘senior management’ 
shall mean the officers and personnel of the listed entity who 
are members of its core management team, excluding the 
Board of Directors, and shall also comprise all the members of 
the management one level below the Chief Executive Officer 
or Managing Director or Whole Time Director or Manager 
(including Chief Executive Officer and Manager, in case they 
are not part of the Board of Directors) and shall specifically 
include the functional heads, by whatever name called and 
the Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer).
REMUNERATION POLICY
The Board has approved Policy on Board Appointments, 
Composition, & Compensation Policy as recommended by the 
Nomination, Compensation & Corporate Governance Committee 
which forms part of Directors Report.
DETAILS OF PECUNIARY RELATIONSHIP OR 
TRANSACTION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR(S) 
WITH THE COMPANY
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions 
between any other Non-Executive Director and the Company 
except sitting fees paid for attending the meetings of Board and 
committee of Board during the year under review.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
157
C. 	 STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP AND 
SECURITIES TRANSFER COMMITTEE (SRSTC)
	
The Company has constituted Stakeholders Grievance 
Committee in line with the provisions of Regulation 20 of 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and Section 178(5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 to monitor the securities holders and 
investor complaints / grievances and also to ensure quick 
redressal of investor complaints associated with transfer/ 
transmission/ dematerialisation of shares, non-receipt of 
Balance Sheet, Dividend warrants etc. The committee was 
re-designated as Stakeholders Relationship Committee.
	
Board had earlier constituted Securities Transfer Committee 
to comply with provisions of section 46 of Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Share Capital 
and Debentures) Rules, 2014. In order to ease the both 
committees functioning, Board at its meeting held on 
June 25, 2017 merged the Securities Transfer Committee 
into Stakeholders Relationship Committee and accordingly 
to comply with the provisions of Listing Regulations and the 
Act and rules made thereunder as both Securities Transfer 
Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee have 
functions primarily aimed at serving security holders of 
the Company.
	
The Committee met (4) Four times during FY 2024-25 viz 09.05.2024, 13.08.2024, 05.11.2024 and 17.01.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No.
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
*Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar
Chairman
Independent, director
3
3
2
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Member
MD & CEO
4
4
3
*Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajgopal Member
Independent, director
3
3
4
*Mr. E K Bharat Bhushan
Member
Independent, director
3
3
5
*Ms. Pratima Ram
Member
Independent, director
3
2
*The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 09.05.2024 appointed Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar, Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal, Mr. E K Bharat Bhushan 
and Ms. Pratima Ram as members in the Stakeholders Relationship and Securities Transfer Committee
	
Scope 
	
The Committee was constituted to specifically look into 
the redressal of shareholder and investors complaints/ 
grievances like transfer and transmission of securities, 
non-receipt of annual report/ notice/ declared dividends/ 
interest/ redemption amount, etc. and all other 
securities-holders related matters.
	
The Committee normally approves transfers, transmission, 
etc. of securities and issues split, duplicate certificates of 
securities issued by the Company.
	
The role of the committee shall inter-alia include the 
following.
	
•	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the 
listed entity including complaints related to transfer/ 
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, 
non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/ 
duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.
	
•	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders.
	
•	
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted 
by the listed entity in respect of various services being 
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
	
•	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken 
by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/ annual reports/statutory notices 
by the shareholders of the company
	
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:
	
Mr. Manoj Kumar V.R., Company Secretary
	
Manappuram 
Finance 
Limited, 
W-4/638A, 
Manappuram House,
	
Valapad P.O, Thrissur-680567. Phone - 0487 3050408, 
9946239999
	
E-Mail - cosecretary@manappuram.com,  
cs@manappuram.com
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
158
	
Details of investor complaints received and redressed during the financial year 2024-25 are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
No. of 
Complaints
Status of complaints
1
No. of Investor complaints pending at the beginning of the 
year
0
Nine Investor complaints were 
resolved during the FY 2024-25 out 
of the 10 complaints received. One 
complaint was left unresolved at the 
end of the year
2
No. of Investor complaints received during the year
10
3
No. of Investor complaints disposed off during the year
9
4
No. of Investor complaints unresolved at the end of the year
1
D.	
Risk Management Committee (RMC)
	
The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) in line with the provisions of Regulation 21 of Listing 
Regulations and related Master directions.
	
The committee reviews the Risk Management Policy, document and improve risk management practices, ensure appropriate 
/ adequate reporting to the Board, manage the integrated risk, review the functioning of the Risk Management Department 
and any other matter as the Committee may deem fit. The Committee is involved in the process of identification, measurement, 
monitoring and mitigation of the various risks faced by the Company. The RMC shall meet at least Four times in a year and once 
in every quarter and reports to the Board.
	
Pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular No. DNBR (PD) CC.No.099/03.10.001/2018-19 dated May 16,2019, the Company 
had appointed Mr. Madhu Mohan as Chief Risk Officer (CRO) to carry out the functions and discharge all the responsibilities as 
per the terms of aforesaid circular. His re-appointment for the current tenor of two year was approved by the Board on May 9, 
2024 with effect from July 17, 2024.
	
The Committee met (5) Five times during FY 2024-25 viz 08.05.2024, 12.08.2024, 04.11.2024, 10.01.2025 and 12.02.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Chairman
Independent Director
5
5
2
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Member
MD & CEO
5
3
3
Dr. Shailesh J Mehta
Member
Independent, Non-Executive
5
4
4
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Member
Independent, Non-Executive
5
5
5
Ms. Pratima Ram
Member
Independent, Non-Executive
5
5
6
Dr. Sankaran Nair 
Rajagopal
Member
Independent, Non-Executive
4
4
*The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 09.05.2024 appointed Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal as member in the Risk Management Committee
E.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE (CSR COMMITTEE)
	
The Company has constituted Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR Committee) which has substantial roles and 
responsibilities in respect of projects to be recommended to the Board and also for monitoring of the CSR projects and reporting. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) indicating the activities to be undertaken by the Company, which has been 
approved by the Board.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
159
	
The Committee met (5) Five times during FY 2024-25 viz 23.05.2024, 19.07.2024, 23.10.2024, 17.01.2025 and 19.03.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. E K Bharatbhushan
Chairman
Independent, Director
5
5
2
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Member
MD & CEO
5
4
3
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Member
Independent, Director
5
5
4
Adv. V.P. Seemandini
Member
Independent, Director
5
5
5
Mr. T.C. Susheel Kumar
Member
Independent, Director
5
5
	
Role of the Committee shall include the following:
	
i.	
Draft the CSR policy and recommend the same to the Board for approval.
	
ii.	
Review and recommend any new CSR initiatives to be taken up by the company including the selection/appointment of 
implementation agencies;
	
iii.	
Review the progress of CSR projects already undertaken by the company and the utilisation of budgets for each 
such projects;
	
iv.	
Review and recommend the CSR report to be included in the board’s report.
	
v.	
Review and recommend any amendments to be made in the CSR policy of the Company.
	
vi.	
Formulate and recommend to the board the list of CSR projects or programs that are approved to be undertaken in areas 
or subjects specified in Schedule VII of the Act.
	
vii.	
Formulate and recommend to the board the manner of execution of such projects or programs.
	
viii.	 Formulate and recommend to the board the modalities of utilisation of funds and implementation schedules for the projects 
or programs.
	
ix.	
Formulate and recommend to the board monitoring and reporting mechanism for the projects or programs.
	
x.	
Formulate and recommend to the board details of need and impact assessment, if any, for the projects undertaken by 
the company.
	
xi.	
To carry such other functions as may be delegated to it by the board relating to CSR activities of the company.
F. 	
DEBENTURE COMMITTEE
	
The Debenture Committee has been constituted by the Board of Directors for public Issuance of debentures of the Company.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025:
Sl. 
No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Chairman
Non-Independent, Executive MD&CEO
NIL
2
Ms. Bindu A L
Member
Chief Financial Officer
3
Mr. Manoj Kumar VR
Member
Company Secretary
	
The functions of the Debenture Committee include the following:
	
(i)	
authorisation of any director or directors of the Company or other officer or officers of the Company, including by the grant 
of power of attorneys, to do such acts, deeds and things as such authorised person in his/her/its absolute discretion may 
deem necessary or desirable in connection with the issue, offer and allotment of the Bonds;
	
(ii)	
giving or authorising the giving by concerned persons of such declarations, affidavits, certificates, consents and authorities 
as may be required from time to time;
	
(iii)	
appointing the lead managers to the issue in accordance with the provisions of the Debt Regulations;
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
160
	
(iv)	 seeking, if required, any approval, consent or waiver 
from the Company’s lenders, and/or parties with whom 
the Company has entered into various commercial 
and other agreements, and/or any/all concerned 
government and regulatory authorities in India, and/
or any other approvals, consents or waivers that may 
be required in connection with the issue, offer and 
allotment of the Bonds;
	
(v)	
deciding, approving, modifying or altering the pricing 
and terms of the Bonds, and all other related matters, 
including the determination of the size of the Bond 
issue up to the maximum limit prescribed by the Board 
and the minimum subscription for the Issue;
	
(vi)	 approval of the draft and final prospectus or disclosure 
document as the case may be (including amending, 
varying or modifying the same, as may be considered 
desirable or expedient) as finalised in consultation with 
the lead managers, in accordance with all applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines;
	
(vii)	 seeking the listing of the Bonds on any Indian stock 
exchange, submitting the listing application to such 
stock exchange and taking all actions that may be 
necessary in connection with obtaining such listing;
	
(viii)	 appointing the registrar and other intermediaries to 
the Issue, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Debt Regulations
	
(ix)	 finalisation of and arrangement for the submission 
of the draft prospectus to be submitted to the 
Stock Exchange(s) for receiving comments from the 
public and the prospectus to be filed with the Stock 
Exchange(s), and any corrigendum, amendments 
supplements thereto;
	
(x)	
appointing the debenture trustee and execution of the 
trust deed in connection with the Issue, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Debt Regulations;
	
(xi)	 authorisation of the maintenance of a register of 
holders of the Bonds;
	
(xii)	 finalisation of the basis of allotment of the Bonds 
including in the event of over-subscription;
	
(xiii)	 finalisation of the allotment of the Bonds on the basis 
of the applications received;
	
(xiv)	  acceptance and appropriation of the proceeds of the 
Issue; and
	
(xv)	  To generally do any other act and/or deed, to 
negotiate and execute any document/s, application/s, 
agreement/s, undertaking/s, deed/s, affidavits, 
declarations and certificates, and/or to give such 
direction as it deems fit or as may be necessary or 
desirable with regard to the Issue.
G. 	 FINANCIAL RESOURCE & MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE (FRMC)
	
The Financial Resource and Management Committee has 
been constituted by the Board of Directors of the company 
to facilitate the day-to-day management of the Company.
	
The Committee met (12) Twelve times during FY 2024-25 
viz 19.04.2024, 08.05.2024, 14.05.2024, 21.06.2024, 
27.06.2024, 08.08.2024, 19.08.2024, 25.09.2024, 
18.11.2024, 29.01.2025, 01.03.2025 and 26.03.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. 
No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024 -25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Chairman Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
12
10
2
*Adv. V.P. Seemanandini
Member
Independent Director
10
9
3
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Member
Executive Director
12
10
4
*Mr. E K Bharat Bhushan Member
Independent Director
10
9
* The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 09.05.2024 appointed Adv. V.P. Seemanandini and Mr. E K Bharat Bhushan as members in the 
Financial Resources and Management Committee.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
161
	
Terms of Reference of FRMC
	
The committee shall be responsible for overseeing 
and dealing with operational matters from time to time. 
Such matters include: -
	
(i)	
Investments
	
	
•	
To deliberate and make recommendation to the 
Board on all transactions and matters relating to 
the business of the company or its investments.
	
	
•	
Dispose the short-term surplus of the company 
in eligible short term investment instruments 
and securities with a maturity period of note 
more than one year as recommended by the 
ALM committee of the company or to meet any 
statutory obligations or cash collaterals as part 
of lending arrangement or as caution deposits 
and also to authorise officers or directors for 
the purpose.
	
(ii)	
Financial Arrangements
	
	
•	
Approve financial arrangements whether 
as working capital demand loans or against 
assignment of receivables of the company or buy 
out of port folios or by such other means with 
banks and other financial institutions including 
the signing of such documents for facilities within 
the borrowing powers of the Board.
	
	
•	
Approve the creation of any mortgage/charge 
or other encumbrance over the company’s 
properties or assets for the above purposes.
	
	
•	
Approve the issuing or providing or permitting 
the company to issue or provide any form of 
guarantee or indemnity or other financial or 
non-financial support in the ordinary course 
of business.
	
	
•	
To consider the issue of commercial papers and 
other short term or long term instruments for 
raising funds from the market.
	
	
•	
Authorise changes in signatories in respect of 
accounts maintained by the company with banks 
and other financial institutions.
	
	
•	
Authorisation for opening, operation and 
Closing of Bank Accounts in different centres for 
different branches.
	
	
•	
Approve fully hedged foreign currency 
transactions, including External Commercial 
Borrowings, Trade Credits, Inter Corporate 
Deposits and Foreign currency denominated 
Loans with domestic and overseas banks, 
investor classes, corporate and other financial 
institutions.
	
	
•	
Buyback or Re-purchase of NCDs and other Debt 
Securities.
	
	
•	
Allotment of Debentures and Bonds: -
	
	
a)	
Approve the allotment of debentures and bonds 
including domestic and overseas fully hedged 
foreign currency instruments issued by the 
Company within in the overall limit set for the 
issue and the creation/modification/satisfaction 
of mortgage/charge on such debentures/bonds 
as the case may be.
	
	
b)	
Allotment of Shares under Employees Stock 
Option Schemes approved by Board from 
time to time.
	
	
•	
Others:
	
	
a)	
Authorising officers of the company for making 
necessary application for registration under 
different enactments for employee welfare, 
fiscal and other municipal or local or subordinate 
legislations.
	
	
b)	
Authorising officers of the company by grant 
of power of attorneys or by resolution so as to 
represent before Government, Judicial or quasi 
- judicial bodies or other authorities for sanction, 
approval or other permissions on such matters 
affecting the business of the company.
	
	
c)	
Authorising officers of the company by grant of 
power of attorneys or by way of resolution for 
matters in connection with day to day business 
activities, opening of branches, execution of rent/
tenancy agreements, represent the company 
before any statutory or regulatory bodies.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
162
H. 	 IT STRATEGY COMMITTEE (ITSC):
	
The IT Strategy Committee has been constituted by the Board of Directors of the company is to assist the Board for effective IT 
Governance in the Company.
	
The Committee met (4) Four times during FY 2024-25 viz 26.06.2024, 05.08.2024, 18.10.2024 and 16.01.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024 -25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Chairman
Independent Director
4
4
2
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta
Member
Independent Director
4
4
3
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Member
Executive Director
4
4
	
Terms of reference –
	
•	
The Committee shall ensure that the Company has put an effective IT strategic planning process in place.
	
•	
The Committee shall guide in preparation of IT Strategy and ensure that the IT Strategy aligns with the overall strategy of 
the Company towards accomplishment of its business objectives.
	
•	
The Committee shall satisfy itself that the IT Governance and Information Security Governance structure fosters 
accountability, is effective and efficient, has adequate skilled resources, well defined objectives and unambiguous 
responsibilities for each level in the organisation.
	
•	
The Committee shall ensure that the Company has put in place processes for assessing and managing IT and 
cybersecurity risks.
	
•	
The Committee shall ensure that the budgetary allocations for the IT function (including for IT security), cyber security are 
commensurate with the Company’s IT maturity, digital depth, threat environment and industry standards and are utilised 
in a manner intended for meeting the stated objectives.
	
•	
The Committee shall review, at least on annual basis, the adequacy and effectiveness of the Business Continuity Planning 
and Disaster Recovery Management of the Company.
I.	
ASSET- LIABILITY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (ALCO)
	
Your Company has an Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) to review the ALM risks and opportunities of the Company. 
The ALCO is responsible for overseeing the liquidity position of the Company and liquidity risk management.
	
The Committee met (4) Four times during FY 2024-25 viz 28.06.2024, 31.08.2024, 29.10.2024 and 28.01.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Chairman
Non-Independent, Executive
4
4
2
Mr. Madhumohan
Member
Chief Risk Officer
4
3
3
Mrs. Bindu A L
Member
Chief Financial Officer
4
4
4
Mr. Jayakrishnan
Member
Head-Credit
4
4
	
Terms of Reference of Asset - Liability Management Committee (ALCO):
	
•	
To ensure that the asset liability management strategy and Company’s market risk management policies are implemented.
	
•	
To provide a strategic framework to identify, asses, quality and manage market risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 
price risk etc.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
163
	
•	
To report to the Board of Directors on the adequacy of the Company’s systems and controls for managing risk, and for 
recommending any changes or improvements, as necessary.
	
•	
To review and assess the management of funding undertaken by Company and formulate appropriate actions.
	
•	
To review and assess the management of the Company’s liquidity with the framework and policies established by the 
Board, as the case may be, and formulate appropriate actions to be taken.
	
•	
To consider the significance of ALM of any changes in customer behaviour and formulate appropriate actions.
J. 	
COMMITTEE OF THE EXECUTIVES UNDER RBI – MASTER DIRECTION ON FRAUD RISK MANAGEMENT
	
The Committee met (1) One time during FY 2024-25 viz 10.02.2025.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Chairman
Non-Independent, Executive
1
1
2
Ms. Bindu A.L.
Member
CFO
1
1
3
Mr. Raju Narayanan
Member
EVP – ABR
1
1
4
Mr. Madhumohan
Member
CRO
1
1
5
Mr. Issac E.A.
Member
CCO
1
1
6
Mr. Riju P
Member
Head – IA
1
1
7
Mr. Vinod Venugopal
Member
Head – Vigilance
1
1
	
Terms of Reference
	
•	
Reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s fraud risk management framework and internal controls.
	
•	
Ensuring that the framework is up-to-date and aligned with best practices.
	
•	
Monitoring the implementation of fraud risk management policies and procedures.
	
•	
Reviewing, monitoring and reporting of all categories of fraud, and their root causes.
K. 	 Review Committee for reviewing Wiful Defaulter (“Review Committee”)
	
In line with RBI Guidelines, the Company is required to constitute a committee for identifying a non-cooperative borrower as 
specified in the guidelines. To review the decision of this Committee, a Review Committee of the Board has been constituted. 
The order shall become final only after it is confirmed by the said Review Committee.
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025:
Sl. 
No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024-25 *
Held
Attended
1
V.P . Nandakumar
Chairman
MD &CEO
0
0
2
Mr. Suseel Kumar
Member
Independent Director
0
0
3
Ms. Pratima Ram
Member
Independent Director
0
0
* No meeting was held during the period as the review committee was constituted on November 5, 2024.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
164
L. 	
Identification committee for Willful Defaulters (“Identification Committee”)
	
The Identification committee is constituted for identifying a willful defaulter and recommend to the Review Committee. No meeting 
was held during the period
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025	
Sl. No Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024-25*
Held
Attended
1
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Chairman
Executive Director
0
0
2
Ms. Bindu . A.L
Member
NA
0
0
3
Mr. Raju Narayanan
Member
NA
0
0
* No meeting was held during the period as the Identification committee was constituted on November 5, 2024.
M. 	 Committee of Independent Directors:
	
The committee of Independent Directors of the Company (“IDC”) was constituted pursuant to a proposal of issuance of securities, 
including equity shares and warrants (each carrying a right to subscribe to equity share(s) of the Company) by the Company 
to one or more proposed allottees (“Investors”) pursuant to a preferential issue by way of private placement in compliance 
with the Companies Act, 2013 (and rules made thereunder), the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, as amended (“ICDR Regulations”) and other applicable laws and regulations 
(“Preferential Issue”).
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during 
the financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Shailesh Mehta
Chairman
Independent Director
1
1
2
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Member
Independent Director
1
1
3
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Member
Independent Director
1
1
4
Ms. Pratima Ram
Member
Independent Director
1
1
5
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan
Member
Independent Director
1
1
6
Adv. V.P. Seemandini
Member
Independent Director
1
1
7
Mr. T.C. Suseelkumar
Member
Independent Director
1
1
8
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
Member
Independent Director
1
1
N. 	 Meeting of Independent Directors:
	
The Act mandates Independent Directors of a company to hold at least one separate meeting in a year without the presence of 
non-independent directors and members of management.to:
	
a.	
review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole;
	
b.	
review the performance of the Chairperson of the company, taking into account the views of executive directors and 
non-executive directors; and
	
c.	
assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the company management and the Board that 
is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
165
     	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance as on March 31, 2025
Sl. 
No
Name of the Member
Position
Category of Directors
Number of Meetings during the 
financial year 2024-25
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Chairman
Independent Director
1
1
2
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Member
Independent Director
1
1
3
Mr. Shailesh Mehta
Member
Independent Director
1
1
4
Ms. Pratima Ram
Member
Independent Director
1
1
5
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan
Member
Independent Director
1
1
6
Adv. V. P. Seemandini
Member
Independent Director
1
0
7
Mr. T. C. Suseelkumar
Member
Independent Director
1
1
8
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
Member
Independent Director
1
1
4.	
SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
	
The following are the senior management persons identified by Board including the changes therein since the close of the 
previous financial year:
Sl. 
No.
Name
Designation
Changes during the financial 
year if any
1
Mrs. Bindu A.L.
Chief Financial Officer
NA
2
Mr. Raju Narayanan
Head – Analytics and Business Review (EVP)
NA
3
Mr. Manoj Kumar V.R.
Company Secretary (VP)
NA
4
Mr. Issac E.A.
Chief Compliance officer
NA
5
Mr. Madhu Mohan
Chief Risk Officer
NA
6
Mr. Manikandan T.G.
Head - Information Technology Department
NA
7
Mr. Riju P
Head - Internal audit Department
NA
8
Mr. Renjith P.R.
Chief Human Resource Officer
NA
9
Mr. Rajiv Rathnam
Head of Vigilance Department
Mr. Rajiv Rathnam-Head of 
Vigilance Dept had resigned 
from the company on  
May 25th 2024.
10
Mr. Joshy V.K.
Business Head of Gold loan department
NA
11
Mr. Digbijay 
Bandyopadhyay
Business Head of Commercial Vehicle Finance-VP
NA
12
Mr. Hemant Patil
Business Head of Car loan
NA
13
Mr. Ajay Bhalchandra 
shelke
Business Head of Two-Wheeler Finance
NA
14
Mr. Sathyanarayan K Rao
Business Head of Farm Equipment
NA
15
Mr. Vijayakumar K B
Business Head of MSME
NA
16
Mr. Ratheesh P.M.
Business Head of Micro Home Finance
NA
17
Mr. Vipin T S
Business Head of Security Personal Loan
NA
18
Mr. Satheesh Kumar M
Business Head of Digital Personal Loan
NA
19
Mr. Kamal Parmar
Business Head of Commercial Vehicle Finance-SVP
NA
20
Mr. Bineesh P
HR Head
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
166
5.	
DISCLOSURES WITH RESPECT TO 
REMUNERATION
	
INDEPENDENT, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
	
Independent directors of the Company were paid sitting fee 
of ` 40,000 for every meeting of Board, Audit Committee 
and Nomination Compensation and Corporate Governance 
Committee. ` 15000 were paid as sitting fee of other 
Committees. The Company is being benefited from the 
expertise, advise and inputs of Independent Directors. 
The commission for the F.Y ended March 31, 2025, was 
paid to all Independent Directors, as recommended by 
the nomination Committee and decided by the Board on 
May 9, 2025.
	
The shareholders of the Company at their annual general 
meeting held on August 27, 2019 have approved for 
payment of commission annually to the Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company (i.e., other than Directors who 
are either in whole-time employment of the Company 
or Managing Director of the Company) but including 
Independent Directors of the Company, an amount not 
exceeding 1% (one per cent) of the net profits of the 
Company computed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 197 of the Companies Act 2013.
	
CRITERIA OF MAKING PAYMENTS TO NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
	
The Company has adopted Policy on Board Appointments, 
Composition, & Compensation Policy, which describes the 
criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors. 
The Policy is available on the website of the Company https://
www.manappuram.com/policies-codes. The Non-Executive 
Directors are paid sitting fees for attending meetings of 
Board and Committees of Board, which is duly approved 
by the Board of Directors of the Company and the present 
fee payable to the Directors for attending the meetings 
is within the limits specified in Rule 4 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014. They are paid remuneration based on their 
contribution and current trends. The Board of Directors of 
the Company on the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration of 
the Non-Executive Directors
	
Details of Sitting Fee/ remuneration to Non -Executive Directors during the Financial year 2024-25 are as under: -
 (` In Million)
SL. No
Name & of Director
Commission
Sitting Fee
ESOS
1
Ms. Pratima Ram (DIN: 03518633)
3.6
0.95
Nil
2
Mr. Abhijit Sen (DIN: 00002593)
7.9
1.025
Nil
3
Mr. Harshan Kollara (DIN: 01519810)
4.9
1.09
Nil
4
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta DIN: 01633893)
19
1.135
Nil
5
Adv. V.P. Seemandini (DIN: 07850522)
3.6
0.72
Nil
6
Mr. T C Suseel Kumar (DIN: 06453310)
3.6
0.815
Nil
7
Mr. Rajagopal (DIN: 10087762)
3.6
0.76
Nil
8
Mr. E.K. Bharath Bhushan (DIN: 01124966)
3.6
0.67
Nil
9
*Mr. Manomohanan P. (DIN: 00042836)
1.03
0.265
Nil
10
*Adv. V.R. Ramachandran (DIN: 00046848)
1.03
0.2
Nil
11
**Mr. S.R. Balasubramanian (DIN: 03200547)
0
0.055
Nil
*Mr. P. Manomohanan and Mr. V.R. Ramachandran, Independent Directors of the Company had completed their first tenure of 5 years on 31st July 
2019 and thereafter re-appointed for a further period of 5 years through the postal ballot held on March 2019. Hence, their second tenure will 
come to an end on 31-07-2024.
**Mr. S. R. Balasubramanian resigned w.e.f 09.05.2024.
	
Non-Independent, Executive Directors
(` In Million)
Sl. 
No.
Name
Salary
Commission
Benefits/PF
Perquisites
Bonus
Sitting Fee
ESOS (no. 
of options)
1
Mr. V.P Nandakumar
108
100
13.5
16.37
0
0
0
2
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
15
7.5
1.875
1.124
0
0
0
	
The appointment and remuneration including annual 
increments if any, of Executive Directors including Chairman 
& Managing Director are governed by the recommendation 
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee followed by 
the approval of Board of Directors and Shareholders of the 
Company if any. The remuneration package of Chairman 
& Managing Director and Executive Director comprises of 
Salary, performance bonus, perquisites and allowances and 
contributions to Provident fund. The remuneration policy is 
directed towards rewarding performance, based on review 
of achievements. It is aimed at attracting and retaining high 
caliber talents. Presently, the Company has not granted 
stock option to its directors during the period under review.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
167
	
The Policy On Board Appointments, Composition, & Compensation Policy uploaded on the website of the Company https://
www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
	
Performance Evaluation of Board, Board Committee and Directors
	
The Board of Directors carried out annual evaluation of its own performance, its committees and individual Directors based on 
the criteria and framework adopted by the Board and in accordance with the existing regulations, the details of which are given 
in the directors’ report.
6.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
	
Details of the last three Annual General Meetings of the Company are given below:
Year
Date
Time & Place
Special Resolutions Passed
2024
August 14
Latha Convention Centre (formerly 
known as Anugraha Auditorium), 
Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680 567 at 
11.00 A.M
Re-appointment of Mr. Abhijit Sen (DIN: 00002593) as 
independent Director
Revision in remuneration payable to Mr. V P Nandakumar 
(DIN: 00044512), Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company.
Revision in remuneration payable to Dr. Sumitha Nandan 
(DIN: 03625120), Whole-time Director of the Company.
2023
August 17
Latha Convention Centre (formerly 
known as Anugraha Auditorium), 
Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680 567 at 
11.00 A.M
Re-appointment of Mr. V P Nandakumar (DIN: 00044512) 
as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company for a period of five years with effect from April 
01, 2024
Alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company
2022
August 25
Latha Convention Centre (formerly 
known as Anugraha Auditorium), 
Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala - 680 567 at 
11.00 A.M,
Re-appointment of Mr. V.P. Nandakumar (DIN: 00044512) 
as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company.
	
No Extraordinary General Meeting held during the financial year 2024-25.
	
During the year, the shareholders of the Company approved the following matters through postal ballot, by way of ordinary/
Special Resolutions. A snapshot of voting results of the Postal ballot are as follows;-
Postal 
Ballot 
conclusion 
date
SL No
Particulars
Type of 
Resolution
% of votes 
polled on 
outstanding 
shares
% of votes 
in favour of 
votes polled
% of votes 
against on 
votes polled
03.04.2024*
1
Appointment of Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan 
(DIN: 0l 124966) as Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company.
Special 
Resolution
0
99.8%
0.02%
13.05.2024** 1
Approval to borrow in excess of the 
aggregate of paid-up share capital and 
free reserves and securities premium of 
the Company under Section 180(1) c of 
the Companies Act, 2013
Special 
Resolution
0
98.70%
1.30%
2
Approval to create charge/mortgage over 
the properties of the Company for the 
purpose of borrowing in terms of Section 
180(1)a of the Companies Act 2013
Special 
Resolution
0
98.70%
1.30 %
*The remote e-voting period commenced from Tuesday, March 5,2024, at 09:00 a.m (IST) and ended on Wednesday, April 3, 2024, at 05:00 p.m. 
(IST), both days inclusive.
**The remote e-voting period commenced from Friday, April 12, 2024, at 09:00 a.m. (IST) and ended on Saturday, May 11,2024, at 05:00 p.m. (IST), 
both days inclusive.
	
Mr. Suresh M V, FCS, Partner of SMS & Co Company Secretaries LLP (COP No. 17830), was appointed as the Scrutiniser for the 
Postal ballot process. The detailed voting procedure mentioned in the postal ballot notice, the Scrutiniser’s report and the voting 
results are available on the Company’s Website.
	
The procedure for Postal Ballot /electronic voting (e-voting) for aforesaid special resolutions was mentioned in the said Postal 
Ballot Notice.
	
Details of special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot : Nil
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
168
	
Procedure for postal ballot :Procedure of Postal Ballot is followed pursuant to Sections 108 and 110 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
read with Rules 20 and 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 and other applicable provisions
7.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
The Company complies with Listing Regulations by publishing its unaudited/audited financial results quarterly in leading 
newspapers such as Business Line and Mathrubhumi/Malayala Manorama. Additionally, it also displays Press Release/ official 
news releases. Other important announcements regarding General Meetings/Postal Ballot are also made in these newspapers. 
Additionally, the Company’s website www.manappuram.com under head “Investors” provides relevant information about 
the Company, including board approved policies and codes, as well as the financial results. Detailed presentations made to 
institutional investors / analysts on overall performance of the Company are also posted in its website on a quarterly basis for 
the benefit of investors and other stake holders. All shareholder information and communications are filed with National Stock 
Exchange and BSE Limited, and can also be found on the Company’s website.
8.	
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
	
33rd Annual General Meeting
Particulars
As on March 31, 2025
Annual General Meeting - Date, Time And 
Venue;
Thursday, August 14, 2025, at 11.00 AM at Latha Convention Centre 
(Formerly known as Anugraha Auditorium), Valapad, Thrissur, Kerala – 
680567.
Financial Year
2024-25
Dividend Payment Date
NA (No final dividend recommended by the Board)
The Name And Address Of Each Stock 
Exchange(S) At Which The Listed Entity’s 
Securities Are Listed And A Confirmation About 
Payment Of Annual Listing Fee To Each Of Such 
Stock Exchange(S);
BSE Limited (BSE)
25th floor, P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) Exchange
Plaza, C-1, Block G Bandra Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
Stock Code
BSE-531213 NSE- MANAPPURAM
Corporate Identity Number (Cin)
L65910KL1992PLC006623
Registrar And Share Transfer Agents
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
“Surya” 35, Mayflower Avenue, Behind Senthil Nagar, Sowripalayam 
Road, Coimbatore 641028
www.in.mpms.mufg.com |T: +91 422 2314792, 2539835/836, 4958995
coimbatore@in.mpms.mufg.com
Compliance Officer
Mr. Manoj Kumar V R, Company Secretary
Ph: 0487-3050408 | Email: cosecretary@manappuram.com
Company Address
Manappuram Finance Limited
W-4/638A, Manappuram House Valapad P.O., Thrissur, Kerala, India, Pin: 
680567
Phone: 0487- 3050108, 3050000 | Email: mail@manappuram.com
Payment of Listing Fees
Annual listing fee for FY 2024-25 has been paid by the Company to BSE 
and NSE.
Payment of Depository Fees
Annual Custody/ Issuer fee for FY 2024-25 has been paid by the Company 
to NSDL and CDSL.
9.	
SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM
	
The Stakeholders Relationship and Securities Transfer Committee meets as and when required to, inter-alia to consider issue 
of duplicate share certificates in lieu of original share certificates reported as lost/stolen/misplaced by the shareholders of the 
Company. In terms of the Listing Regulations, equity shares of the Company can only be transferred in dematerialised form. 
Requests for dematerialisation of shares are processed and confirmation thereof is given to the respective depositories i.e. 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services India Limited (CDSL), within the statutory time 
limit from the date of receipt of share certificates/ letter of confirmation after due verification. Shareholders holding equity shares 
of the Company in physical form are requested to kindly get their equity shares converted into demat/electronic form to get 
inherent benefits of dematerialisation and also considering that physical transfer of equity shares/issuance of equity shares in 
physical form have been disallowed by SEBI
	
Details of special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal ballot : Nil
	
Procedure for postal ballot :Procedure of Postal Ballot is followed pursuant to Sections 108 and 110 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
read with Rules 20 and 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 and other applicable provisions
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
169
	
Distribution of shareholding as on 31st March, 2025
Sr_No
Shareholding of 
Shares
Number of 
Shareholders
% of Total 
Shareholders
Shares
% of Total Share 
Capital
1
1 to 500
600641
93.1723
36790957
4.35
2
501 to 1000
21958
3.4062
16499190
1.95
3
1001 to 2000
10767
1.6702
15607536
1.84
4
2001 to 3000
3735
0.5794
9437970
1.12
5
3001 to 4000
1785
0.2769
6361721
0.75
6
4001 to 5000
1209
0.1875
5619769
0.66
7
5001 to 10000
2137
0.3315
15662213
1.85
8
10001 to 
99999999999
2424
0.3760
740455373
87.48
TOTAL :
644659
100
846434729
100
	
Categories of Shareholders is as under:
Category
As on March 31, 2025
As on March 31, 2024
No of shares
%
No of shares
%
Mutual Funds
55987202
6.6145
63389232
7.4890
Foreign Portfolio Investors
240575590
28.4222
270765238
31.9889
Resident Individuals
173572589
20.5063
158528012
18.729
Employees (KMP)
77775
0.0092
102275
0.0121
Promoters
298401014
35.2539
297951014
35.2007
Bodies Corporates
42478096
5.0185
16358794
1.9327
Others
35342463
4.1754
39340164
4.6476
Total:
846434729
100
846434729
100
10.	 DEMATERIALISATION AND LIQUIDITY
	
The Company is a member of the depository services of the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (CDSL) for dematerialisation of its shares. As on 31/03/2025, 99.69% of the equity shares of the Company 
are in electronic form with the depositories as detailed below:
Category
No. of Shares
%
National Securities Depository Limited
442701532
52.30
Central Depository Services Limited
401116309
47.39
Physical Holdings
2616888
0.31
Total
846434729
100
	
Shareholders can get their shares dematerialised with either NSDL or CDSL. Through MUFG Intime India Private Limited, 
Registrars and Share Transfer Agents, the Company has established connectivity with both the depositories, that is, National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
	
Under the Depository System, the International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares is 
INE522D01027.
11.	 Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on 
equity
	
The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments in the past and hence as on March 31, 
2025, the Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments. No equity shares 
are in the suspense account / demat suspense account / unclaimed suspense account.
	
The company’s securities has not been suspended from trading till yet.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
170
12.	 PLANT LOCATIONS
	
Since the company is not engaged in any manufacturing business, the company does not have any plant
13.	 CREDIT RATING
	
Details of Credit Rating is available in Boards’ Report.
14.	 OTHER DISCLOSURES
	
A.	
There were no materially significant related party transactions having potential conflict with the interests of the Company 
at large. The details regarding transactions with related parties are disclosed in Standalone financial statements and also 
Board’s Report.
	
B.	
The Company has complied with all the directives issued by stock exchanges and other statutory authorities. No penalties 
and strictures were imposed on the Company by any of the regulatory authorities such as the Stock Exchange, SEBI, 
Reserve Bank of India, Registrar of Companies, for non- compliance on any matter related to capital markets during the 
last three years 2022-23, 2023-24 and 2024-25 except for the below:
Regulator
Regulation 
of Listing 
Regulations
Amount of Penalty
Details
BSE
Regulation 34
` 1,55,760.00 (Rupees One 
Lakhs Fifty-Five Thousand Seven 
Hundred and Sixty Only)
Non-submission of the Annual Report within 
the period prescribed under this regulation. The 
Company paid the fine on 29th October ,2024.
NSE
Regulation 34
1,55,760.00 (Rupees One Lakhs 
Fifty-Five Thousand Seven 
Hundred and Sixty Only)
Non-submission of the Annual Report within 
the period prescribed under this regulation. The 
Company paid the fine on 29th October ,2024
BSE
Regulation 
60(2)
` 1,06,200/- (Rupees One Lakhs 
Six Thousand and two hundred 
only) (` 90,000 plus GST)
Delayed submission of record date intimation. 
Intimation on levy of fine received from BSE through 
mail on September 28, 2022. The Company paid the 
fine on Jan 31, 2023. However, on April 11,2023, 
BSE informed that they have waived this penalty.
BSE
Regulation 60(2) ` 1,06,200/- (Rupees One Lakhs 
Six Thousand and two hundred 
only) (` 90,000 plus GST)
Delayed submission of record date intimation. BSE 
notice dated September 28, 2022 Paid on January 
31, 2023. However, on April 11, 2023, BSE informed 
that they have waived this penalty.
Regulator
Regulation
Amount of 
Penalty
Paid details
RBI
The Reserve Bank of India imposed a monetary penalty of ` 41.50 
Lakhs (Rupees Forty-One Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) for non-
compliance with paragraph 3(a)(v) of definitions under the Master 
Direction- Know Your Customer Direction (KYC) Direction 2016 (as 
updated on May 10, 2021). The violation involved 106 out of 118 KYC 
documents (constituting 90% of the sample), not being countersigned 
by the authorised officials
Further observations included: In the initial off-site scrutiny, PAN details 
for three wallets were either incorrectly recorded or unavailable. Upon 
branch visits, PAN copies were unavailable for 27 out of 30 wallets 
constituting (90% of the sample), violating paragraph 16 of the KYC MD.
Aadhar numbers were not redacted in 9 out of 95 wallets during off-
site scrutiny. In branch level checks, Aadhar was not redacted in 7 of 14 
wallets (50% of the sample) again violating paragraph 16, explanation 1 
of the KYC Master Direction.
` 41,50,000/-
Penalty paid 
on 20.08.2024
RBI
A monetary penalty of ` 20.00 Lakhs (Rupees Twenty Lakhs only) was 
imposed for the following violations: 
Failure to verify PAN through the verification facility of the issuing 
authority.
Allotment of multiple UCICs (Unique Customer Identification Codes) to a 
single customer instead of maintaining a single UCIC per individual.
` 20,00,000/-
Penalty paid 
on 06.01.2025
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
171
Regulator
Regulation
Amount of 
Penalty
Paid details
RBI
Para 26 (2) of the Non-Banking Financial Company-Systemically 
Important Non-Deposit taking Company
and Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 (updated 
from time to time)
Charge - Failure to keep a record of verification of ownership of 
jewellery pledged by the borrowers and
absence of Board approved policy in this regard.
RBI Letter Ref No - EFD.CO.S0/106/02.14.006/2020-November 21, 19, 
2020
` 5,00,000/-
Penalty paid 
on 23-11-
2020
RBI
Paragraphs 9.1(i)(a) and 9.1(i)(b) of the Master Direction on Issuance and 
Operation of PPIs in India (PPI MD) dated October 11, 2017 (updated as 
on February 28, 2020) and paragraph 3(a)(xiii) & Paragraph 16 of KYC 
Master Direction.
Charge:- Contraventions in collection of OVDs while conversion of PPIs 
into full KYC PPI, presence of junk OVD numbers or no OVD numbers in 
customer database.
Opened minimum detail wallets with no OVD numbers or junk OVD 
numbers or with OVD numbers that did not follow their known format.
RBI SCN DPSS.CO.OVRST.No.S514/06.07.004/ 2021-22 dated 
September 07, 2021 and RBI Speaking Order dated Mar 24, 2022.
` 17,63,965/-
Penalty paid on 
02-04-2022.
15.	 WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY AND VIGIL 
MECHANISM
	
The Company has formulated Whistle Blower Policy and 
Vigil Mechanism (“the Policy”) in line with the provisions 
of Regulation 4 and 22 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015 and Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 with a 
view to enabling stakeholders, including directors, individual 
employees and their representative bodies to freely 
communicate their concerns about illegal or unethical 
practices and to report genuine concerns to the Audit 
Committee of the Company.
	
The vigil mechanism of the Company provides adequate 
safeguards against the victimisation of any directors or 
employees or any other person who avail the mechanism 
and also provides direct access to the Chairperson of the 
Audit Committee. No person has been denied access to the 
Chairman of the audit committee. The said policy has been 
also put on the website of the Company at the following 
link; https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
16.	 DETAILS OF COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY 
REQUIREMENTS AND ADOPTION OF THE NON-
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
	
The Company has complied with all mandatory 
requirements of the Listing Regulations for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 and details of discretionary requirements 
under Part E of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations are 
detailed in the later part of Corporate Governance Report.
17.	 POLICY FOR DETERMINING MATERIAL 
SUBSIDIARIES
	
The policy has been put on the website of the Company at 
the following link;
	
https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
18.	 POLICY ON RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
	
The policy has been put on the website of the Company at 
the following link;
	
https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
19.	  COMMODITY PRICE RISKS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
RISKS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
	
Your Company does not deal in any commodity and 
hence is not directly exposed to any commodity price risk. 
Accordingly, the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/0000000141 dated 
November 15, 2018, is not required to be furnished by 
the Company.
20.	 DETAILS OF UTILIsATION OF FUNDS RAISED 
THROUGH PREFERENTIAL ALLOTMENT OR 
QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT AS 
SPECIFIED UNDER REGULATION 32 (7A).
	
The Company has not raised funds by issue of equity shares 
either on preferential basis or through qualified institutional 
placement during Financial Year 2024-25. Therefore, there 
are no details to be disclosed as per Regulation 32(7A) of 
Listing Regulations.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
172
21.	 A CERTIFICATE FROM A COMPANY SECRETARY 
IN PRACTICE THAT NONE OF THE DIRECTORS 
ON THE BOARD OF THE COMPANY HAVE BEEN 
DEBARRED OR DISQUALIFIED FROM BEING 
APPOINTED OR CONTINUING AS DIRECTORS 
OF COMPANIES BY THE BOARD/MINISTRY OF 
CORPORATE AFFAIRS OR ANY SUCH STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY
	
In terms of the Listing Regulations, 2015, KSR & Co, 
Company Secretaries LLP, Company Secretaries, has issued 
a certificate that none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Directors of the Companies 
by SEBI / Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any other 
statutory authority. The certificate forms part of Corporate 
Governance Report and is given in Annexure - A.
22.	 WHERE THE BOARD HAD NOT ACCEPTED ANY 
RECOMMENDATION OF ANY COMMITTEE OF THE 
BOARD WHICH IS MANDATORILY REQUIRED, IN 
THE RELEVANT FINANCIAL YEAR, THE SAME 
TO BE DISCLOSED ALONG WITH REASONS 
THEREOF:IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
	
All the recommendations of the various Committees were 
accepted by the Board.
23.	 TOTAL FEES FOR ALL SERVICES PAID BY THE 
LISTED ENTITY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES, ON A 
CONSOLIDATED BASIS, TO THE STATUTORY 
AUDITOR AND ALL ENTITIES IN THE NETWORK 
FIRM/NETWORK ENTITY OF WHICH THE 
STATUTORY AUDITOR IS A PART.
	
During the year, details of fees for all services paid/
payable to Joint Statutory Auditors by the Company and 
its subsidiary on a consolidated basis, are given below:
Sl. 
No
Name of the Company
Amount in INR 
Million
1
Manappuram Finance Ltd
13.37
2
Manappuram Home Finance 
Limited
2.36
3
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
10.49
4
Manappuram Insurance 
Brokers Limited
2.01
5
Manappuram Comptech and 
Consultants Limited
1.05
24.	 DISCLOSURES IN RELATION TO THE SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE 
(PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) 
ACT, 2013
	
The Company is committed in providing a safe environment 
for all employees at workplace and has zero tolerance 
towards sexual harassment. The Company has achieved the 
safe environment in providing a mechanism for addressing 
complaints of sexual harassment by an employee, without 
fear of reprisals in any form or manner.
	
The Company has constituted an Internal Committee (‘IC’), 
in line with the requirements of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) 
Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”). The IC has been constituted as per 
the POSH Act at all the locations where the Company 
operates to redress the complaints received regarding 
sexual harassment. All employees (permanent, contractual, 
temporary, trainees) are covered under this policy. POSH Act 
and its respective Rules provides protection against sexual 
harassment of women at workplace and lays down the 
guidelines and timelines for the prevention and redressal 
of complaints pertaining to sexual harassment.
	
Details of cases reported to Internal Complaints Committee 
during the financial year 2024-25 are as under:
Number of complaints pending at the beginning 
of the financial year 2024-25
0
Number of complaints filed during the financial 
year 2024-25
5
Number of complaints disposed of during the 
financial year 2024-25
5
Number of complaints pending as on end of the 
financial year 2024-25
0
	
No complaints were pending for more than 90 days during 
FY 2024-25. The Company has complied with provisions 
relating to the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee 
under the POSH Act.
	
The details with regarding to the aforesaid subject are given 
in Board’s Report.
25.	 DISCLOSURE BY LISTED ENTITY AND ITS 
SUBSIDIARIES OF ‘LOANS AND ADVANCES IN 
THE NATURE OF LOANS TO FIRMS/COMPANIES 
IN WHICH DIRECTORS ARE INTERESTED BY 
NAME AND AMOUNT.
	
Details are provided in Notes to the Standalone Financial 
Statements in this Annual Report.
26.	 DETAILS OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES OF THE 
LISTED ENTITY; INCLUDING THE DATE AND 
PLACE OF INCORPORATION AND THE NAME AND 
DATE OF APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY 
AUDITORS OF SUCH SUBSIDIARIES
	
The audit committee reviews the consolidated Financial 
statements of the Company and the investments made by 
its unlisted subsidiary companies. The minutes of the board 
meetings along with a report on significant transactions 
and arrangements entered into by the unlisted subsidiary 
companies are quarterly reviewed by the Board of Directors 
of the Company. The Company have only one material 
subsidiary within the meaning of Regulation 16(1)c of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations 2015.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
173
Name of Material 
Subsidiary
Asirvad Micro Finance 
Limited
Date and place of 
incorporation
August 29, 2007 Place of 
Incorporation-Chennai
Name: Date of appointment 
of the statutory auditors: 
Registration No:
A. John Moris & Co., 
Chartered Accountants 
30.09.2024 007220S
	
The Company has framed the policy on material subsidiaries 
and the same is uploaded in the website at the weblink.
	
https://www.manappuram.com/policies-codes
27.	 THE COMPANY HAS COMPLIED WITH ALL THE 
REQUIREMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT OF SUB-PARAS (2) TO (10) ABOVE.
	
A Certificate obtained from the Company Secretary in 
Practice towards compliance of provisions of Corporate 
Governance is annexed with the Board’s Report in terms of 
the provisions of Part E of Schedule V of the SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations 2015.
28.	 EXTENT TO WHICH THE DISCRETIONARY 
REQUIREMENTS AS SPECIFIED IN PART E OF 
SCHEDULE II HAVE BEEN ADOPTED.
	
The Company is in Compliance with all the corporate 
Governance requirements mandated by Part A to D of 
schedule II of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015.The extend 
of compliance of discretionary requirements as prescribed 
in Schedule II Part E of SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015 are 
as follows-.
A.	
A non-executive chairperson may be entitled 
to maintain a chairperson’s office at the listed 
entity’s expense and also allowed reimbursement 
of expenses incurred in performance of his/her 
duties.
	
The Company does not maintain a separate office for the 
Non-executive Chairman.
B.	
A half-yearly declaration of financial performance 
including summary of the significant events in the 
last six-months, may be sent to each household of 
shareholders.
	
The quarterly/half /yearly financial results are published 
in newspapers of wide circulation. The Company not 
sending financial results to the household of Individual 
shareholders.
C.	
The listed entity may move towards a regime 
of financial statements with unmodified audit 
opinion.
	
It is always the Company’s endeavour to present unmodified 
Financial Statements.
D.	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing 
Director or the Chief Executive Officer
	
The Company has separate persons to the post of 
Chairman and Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer. 
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta is the Non-Executive Chairman of 
the Company w.e.f. November 13, 2021. Whereas Mr. V. P. 
Nandakumar is the Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company.
E.	
Reporting of internal auditor
	
Pursuant to RBI Circular RBI/2020-21/88 Ref. No. DoS. 
CO. PPG. /SEC. 05/ 11. 005/2020-21 dated 03.02.2021, 
Board of Directors appointed in house Head Internal Auditor 
(HIA). HIA is reporting to Managing Director functionally and 
the reviewing authority is the Audit Committee. Further Audit 
Committee has met with HIA without the presence of the 
senior management (including the MD & CEO/WTD) on 
quarterly basis.
	
Inhouse Internal Audit department make presentation 
before the audit committee of Company on quarterly basis. 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, the external service provider 
was appointed by the Board to assist internal audit of the 
Company, make presentations to the audit committee on 
their reports.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
174
29.	 THE DISCLOSURES OF THE COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED 
IN REGULATION 17 TO 27 AND CLAUSES (B) TO (I) OF SUB-REGULATION (2) OF REGULATION 46 OF THE 
LISTING REGULATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:
Sl. 
No
Regulation
Particulars of Regulation
Compliance Status 
(Yes/ No)
1
17
Board of Directors
Yes
2
17A
Maximum Number of Directorships
Yes
3
18
Audit Committee
Yes
4
19
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Yes
5
20
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Yes
6
21
Risk Management Committee
Yes
7
22
Vigil Mechanism
Yes
8
23
Related Party Transactions
Yes
9
24
Corporate Governance requirements with respect to subsidiary of listed 
entity
Yes
10
24A
Secretarial Audit and Secretarial Compliance Report
Yes
11
25
Obligations with respect to Independent Directors
Yes
12
26
Obligation with respect to Directors and senior management
Yes
13
27
Other Corporate Governance requirements
Yes
14
46(2)(b) to (i)
Website
Yes
30.	 CODE OF CONDUCT
	
As per Regulation 26 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the 
Company has framed a Code of Conduct for the directors 
and senior management personnel and the same has 
been uploaded on to the website of the Company and is 
accessible to the shareholders of the Company at https://
www.manappuram.com/management-team.
	
It is hereby affirmed that all the Board members and 
senior management personnel have complied with Code 
of Conduct of the Company. In terms of the provisions of 
Part E of Schedule V of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, 
a declaration signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company is published in this report as Annexure - B.
31.	 PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ 
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
	
A certificate obtained from the Company Secretary in 
practice towards compliance of provisions of Corporate 
Governance is annexed with this report as Annexure -C.
32.	 DISCLOSURES WITH RESPECT TO DEMAT 
SUSPENSE ACCOUNT/ UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE 
ACCOUNT
	
No equity shares are in the suspense account/ demat 
suspense account/ unclaimed suspense account as on 
31.03.2025.
33.	 DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN TYPES OF 
AGREEMENTS BINDING LISTED ENTITIES
	
In respect of Preferential Issue on a private placement basis 
which was approved by shareholders at General Meeting 
dated April 16, 2025 pending for allotment of equity shares 
subject to the statutory approvals (ie., statutory approval 
from Reserve Bank of India, Competition Commission of 
India, Stock Exchanges, US Exchange Commission and 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
are awaited), the (i) Company, (ii) BC Asia Investments XXV 
Limited and BC Asia Investments XIV Limited (the “Investors”); 
and (iii) V.P. Nandakumar, Sushama Nandakumar (“Existing 
Promoters”), Suhas Nandan, Sooraj Nandan and Sumitha 
Nandan (collectively with the Existing Promoters, the 
“Specified Promoter and Promoter Group”) have entered 
into a Securities Subscription Agreement dated March 20, 
2025 (“SSA”), for setting out the terms and conditions of 
the Preferential Issue. Simultaneously with the execution 
of the SSA, the Company, the Investors and the Specified 
Promoter and Promoter Group have also entered into a 
shareholders’ agreement dated March 20, 2025 (“SHA”). 
The SHA records the terms and conditions governing the 
management of the Company and its subsidiaries and the 
inter se rights and obligations between the Investors and 
Specified Promoter and Promoter Group, which shall be 
effective in accordance with its terms.
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
175
	
The SHA, inter alia, also envisages granting certain rights 
to the Investors and the Existing Promoters, which is 
specifically identified in the amended and restated Article 
of Association, which may qualify as special rights under 
Regulation 31B of the Listing Regulations. Briefly, these 
include Board nomination rights (including quorum rights) 
of the Investors and Existing Promoters, wherein out of a 
maximum of 10 (ten) directors on the Board, the Investors 
and the Existing Promoters shall have the right to nominate: 
(i) 2 (two) directors each, so long as the Investors and 
Existing Promoter/ Promoter Group hold 10% or more 
of the share capital of the Company on a fully diluted 
basis, respectively; (ii) 1 (one) director each, so long as 
the Investors and Existing Promoter/ Promoter Group 
hold 5% or more but less than 10% of the share capital 
of the Company on fully diluted basis, respectively; and 
their board nomination rights will fall away in case they 
respectively hold less than 5% of the share capital of the 
Company. The director nomination rights of the Investors 
and the Existing Promoters apply mutatis mutandis to the 
committees of the Board. Further, the Existing Promoters 
have the right to nominate V.P. Nandakumar as the 
non-executive chairperson of the Board and Sumitha 
Nandan as the executive vice-chairperson of the Board.
	
For so long as the Investors and the Existing Promoters 
respectively hold 10% or more of the share capital of the 
Company on a fully diluted basis, the Investors and the 
Existing Promoters also have certain reserved matter rights 
respectively (as specifically set out in the amended and 
restated AoA), wherein no agenda can be considered or 
any action undertaken by the Company or its subsidiaries 
in relation to such matters without the affirmative vote or 
prior consent of the Investors and the Existing Promoters in 
respect of their reserved matters. The Investors also has a 
right to nominate persons for certain executive management 
positions (subject to undertaking prior consultation with the 
Existing Promoters), for so long as the Investors hold at 
least 10% of the share capital of the Company, on a fully 
diluted basis. The Investors and the Existing Promoters 
have information and inspection rights on specified matters.
	
Therefore, certain specific rights of the Investors / Existing 
Promoters as specifically identified in the amended and 
restated AoA may qualify as special rights under Regulation 
31B of the Listing Regulations, which shall become effective 
from closing under the SSA in accordance with the SHA.
	
It is also clarified that the inter-se rights of the Investors and 
Existing Promoters under the SHA are enforceable against 
the other party in accordance with the terms of the SHA, 
irrespective of the approval being received by the Company 
under this resolution.
	
Further, as per the terms of the SHA, in the event the 
restated and amended AoA are not approved herein, 
upon closing in accordance with the terms of the SSA, the 
Existing Promoters have agreed to exercise their voting 
rights in the Company pertaining to certain specific matters, 
in accordance with the instructions of the Investors until the 
restated and amended AoA is approved by the members of 
the Company in accordance with the terms of the SHA.
	
Except as mentioned above, there were no agreements 
entered into by the shareholders, promoters, promoter 
group entities, related parties, directors, key managerial 
personnel, employees of the listed entity or of its holding, 
subsidiary or associate company, among themselves or 
with the listed entity or with a third party, solely or jointly, 
which, either directly or indirectly or potentially or whose 
purpose and effect is to, impact the management or control 
of the listed entity or impose any restriction or create any 
liability upon the listed entity.
34.	 EXPLANATION AS PER SEBI CIRCULAR SEBI/HO/
DDHS/DDHS-RACPOD1/P/CIR/2023/172 DATED 
OCTOBER 19, 2023
	
We haven’t raised the necessary amount in the last two 
years since there hasn’t been adequate liquidity in the 
market. Aside from this, NCD funding was more expensive 
than regular funding.
On Behalf of the Board
Sd/-
Place: Valapad	
V. P. Nandakumar
Date: 11th July 2025 	
	
	
           Managing Director & CEO
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
176
Annexure – A
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V - Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
Manappuram Finance Limited,
W-4/638A,
Manappuram House, Valappad,
Thrissur- 680 567
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Manappuram 
Finance Limited having CIN L65910KL1992PLC006623 and having its registered office at Manappuram Finance Limited,W-4/638A 
,Manappuram House, Valappad, Thrissur- 680 567 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V- Para C Clause 10(i) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, We 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 
2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Reserve Bank of India or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment/Re-appointment in the Company
1
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta
01633893
28th August 2020
2
Mr. Abhijit Sen
00002593
27th August 2019 Re-appointed on 14th August 2024 with effect 
from 28th August 2024
3
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
03625120
01st January 2023 (Re-appointed by retirement by rotation on  
14th August 2024)
4
Mr. V.P. Nandakumar
00044512
15th July 1992 and Re-appointed on 17th August 2023 with effect 
from 01st April 2024
5
Mr. Harshan Kollara
01519810
28th August 2020
6
Ms. Pratima Ram
03518633
23rd September 2022 Re-appointed with effect from 01st April 2024
7
Adv. V. P. Seemandhini
07850522
23rd December 2022
8
Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar
06453310
01st November 2023
9
Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
10087762
01st January 2024
10
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan
01124966
01st March 2024
1. Mr. S.R. Balasubramanian, (DIN: 03200547) stepped down as Non-Executive – Non-Independent Director of the Board of the Company with effect 
from close of business hours of 09th May 2024.
2. Mr. P. Manomohanan (DIN: 00042836) ceased to act as Non-Executive – Independent Director of the Board of the Company with effect from close of 
business hours of 31st July 2024 upon completion of his tenure.
3. Mr. V. R. Ramachandran, (DIN: 00046848) ceased to act as Non-Executive – Independent Director of the Board of the Company with effect from close 
of business hours of 31st July 2024 upon completion of his tenure.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of 
the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs 
of the Company. 
For KSR & Co Company Secretaries LLP
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Dr. C. V. Madhusudhanan
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
FCS: 5367; CP:4408
Place: Coimbatore	
UDIN: F005367G000755701
Date: 11th July 2025	
Peer Review No.2635/2022
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
177
Annexure-B
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND  
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF CONDUCT
This is to confirm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for the Directors and senior management personnel. I confirm 
that the Company has in respect of the year ended March 31, 2025, received from the Senior Management Personnel of the Company 
and the Members of the Board a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
On Behalf of the Board
Sd/-
Place: Valapad 	
V. P. Nandakumar
Date: 11th July 2025 	
Managing Director & CEO
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
178
Annexure-C
CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS UNDER SEBI  
(LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
The Members,
Manappuram Finance Limited,
W-4/638A, Manappuram House, 
Valappad, Thrissur- 680 567
We have examined documents, books, papers, minutes, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company and 
all the relevant records for certifying the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Manappuram Finance Limited (CIN: 
(CIN L65910KL1992PLC006623) (the Company) for the year ended 31st March, 2025, as stipulated in Regulation 34 (3) read with 
Para E of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Management’s Responsibility
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. The management along with the 
Board of Directors are responsible in implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure compliance 
with conditions of corporate governance as stated in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements), Regulations 2015.
Our Responsibility
Our examination was limited to implementation of the conditions thereof and adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance 
of the conditions of the Corporate Governance as stipulated under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company.
Our Opinion
In our opinion and on the basis of our examination of the records produced, explanations and information furnished, we certify that 
the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations as applicable.
The Company has complied with Para B and C of the Discretionary Requirements as stated under Part E of Schedule II of Listing 
Regulations read with clause 12 of paragraph C of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For KSR & CO COMPANY SECRETARIES LLP
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Dr. C. V. MADHUSUDHANAN
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FCS: 5367; CP: 4408
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
UDIN: F005367G000755699
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FRN:P2008TN006400
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
PR.NO:2635/2022
Place : Coimbatore 
Date  : 11th July 2025    
Corporate Governance Report
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
179
CEO’S and CFO’S CERTIFICATE
We, Nandakumar VP, Managing Director & Bindu A L, CFO of the Company, to the best of our knowledge and belief, certify that:
a.	
 We have reviewed the financial results and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2025 and that to the best of 
our knowledge and belief:
	
i.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
	
ii.	
 these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
c.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed, to the 
auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, 
of which we have aware and the steps we have taken or propose to be taken to rectify these deficiencies.
d.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable,
	
i.	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
ii.	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the financial 
statements; and
	
iii.	
Instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or 
any employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
For Manappuram Finance Limited
Valappad 	
VP Nandakumar                Bindu AL
Date: 11th July 2025		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
         	
	
         MD & CEO                        CFO
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
180
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Manappuram Finance Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial 
Statements of Manappuram Finance Limited (the 
‘Company’), which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2025, and the Standalone Statement of 
Profit And Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and Standalone 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended on that date, 
and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, including 
a summary of material accounting policy information and 
other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
the ‘Standalone Financial Statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
Standalone Financial Statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) in the manner 
so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 
133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (‘Ind AS’) and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
State of Affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2025, and its 
Profit and Other Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity 
and its Cash Flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with 
the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act, and 
the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and 
the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
4.	
We draw attention to note no. 74 of the Standalone 
Financial Statement describing the identification of 
instances of embezzlement of the Company’s funds by 
an employee of the Company’s subsidiary, Manappuram 
Comptech and Consultants Limited (the ‘subsidiary’) and 
the details of investigation carried out by an independent 
consultant. As represented by the Company’s management, 
the independent consultant has concluded the investigation 
procedures and has confirmed that the extent of the 
embezzlement does not exceed `197.77 million as 
determined during the preliminary findings. The company 
has accounted for compensation receivable of `197.77 
million for losses suffered due to fraudulent activities. 
This compensation is considered as an exceptional item 
due to its nature and size compensation and has been 
recognized in the Profit & Loss Statement as an exceptional 
item, reflecting its non-recurring nature. Our opinion on the 
Standalone Financial Statement is not modified in respect 
of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
5.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements of the current year. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.
6.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the 
key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
181
Key Audit Matter 
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
Interest Income on Gold Loans:
Interest Income on Gold Loans for the financial year ended 31 
March 2025: INR 51,510.54 millions.
Refer note no. 27 (i) to the standalone financial statements 
Interest Income on Gold Loan is based on the various gold loan 
schemes provided by the Company which is netted off against 
the rebates & discounts given for prompt or early re-payments. 
The calculation of the rebates & discount amounts netted off 
against the interest income involve complexities on account 
of discretion & management judgement which is dependent 
upon the timing and period of repayment under the different 
schemes. Considering the significance of interest income on 
gold loans and the above factors we have considered Interest 
Income on gold loan as Key Audit Matter
Our audit procedures in respect of this matter included the 
following: 
	
Obtained an understanding of various schemes approved 
by the management and process, applications and controls 
implemented on in relation to computation & recognition of 
interest income on gold loans and rebated provided to the 
customer on prompt and early re-payment
	
Evaluated the IT Architecture, process flow  and operating 
effectiveness of key internal financial controls pertaining 
to the recognition of the various gold loan schemes and 
interest income thereon, including rebates & discounts.
	
Tested the relevant IT General Controls around access and 
change management relating to interest income computation 
and related information used in interest computation.
	
For loans settled during the year, on test check basis, 
examined the accuracy of interest income and the rebated 
recognised under various gold loans schemes by performing 
re-computation.
	
For loans disbursed during the year and remaining 
outstanding as at the reporting date, re-computation of 
interest income was performed for the entire outstanding 
loans.
	
Performed analytical procedures and test of details 
procedures for testing the accuracy and completeness of 
revenue recognized.
	
Obtained the list of modifications made in the interest 
scheme master during the year and verified the same on 
test check basis.
	
Reconciliation of balances as per general ledger and sub-
ledgers were performed to ascertain the completeness of 
the transactions recognised. Further reconciliation was 
performed between sub-ledger and customer transaction 
history for selected transactions
	
Assessed the appropriateness, accuracy and adequacy of 
related presentation and disclosures in accordance with the 
applicable accounting standards.
Provision for Expected Credit Losses (ECL) on Loans:
Total Gross Loans as at 31 March 2025: INR 3,21,895.39 
millions 
Impairment Provision as at 31 March 2025: INR 2,872.71 
millions
Refer note no. 10 to the Standalone Financial Statements
In accordance with Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’, the 
Company applies ECL model for measurement and recognition 
of impairment loss on the loan assets. ECL involves an estimation 
of probability weighted loss on financial instruments over 
their life, considering reasonable and supportable information 
about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of future 
economic conditions which could impact the credit quality of 
the Company’s financial assets (loan portfolio).
Our audit procedures in respect of this matter included the 
following, but not limited to:
	
Obtained understanding of the credit risk attached to 
each portfolio or business segment of the Company and 
the derivation of the model used by the Company for 
determination  of ECL for each major portfolio.
	
Examined policies approved by the Board of Directors for 
computation of ECL that addresses procedures and controls 
for assessing and measuring credit risk on all lending 
exposures commensurate with the size, complexity and risk 
profile specific to the Company. 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
182
Key Audit Matter 
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
Impairment loss measurement requires use of statistical 
models to estimate the Probabilities of Default (PD), Loss 
Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD). These 
models are key driver to measure Impairment loss.
Significant judgements are used in classifying loan assets and 
applying appropriate measurement principles. The allowance 
for ECL involves a significant level of management judgement 
and estimation uncertainty in the following key areas:
	
Assessing whether there has been a significant increase 
in credit risk for exposures since its initial recognition by 
comparing the risk of default occurring over the expected 
life of the asset between the date of initial recognition and 
the reporting date, which involves estimation uncertainty 
in computing the default risk over life of the assets which 
is likely to be more than one year.
	
Classification of loan assets to stage I, II, or III using 
criteria in accordance with Ind AS 109 where no 
significant increase in credit risk has been observed, such 
assets are classified in ‘Stage I’, loans that are considered 
to have significant increase in credit risk are not credit 
impaired are considered to be in ‘Stage II’ and those 
which are in default or for which there is an objective 
evidence of impairment are considered to be in ‘Stage 
III’. Such classification requires significant management 
judgements due to the nature of loan assets and 
assessment required thereon.
	
Determination of EAD, PD and estimation of LGD. The 
probability of default for the pools are computed based 
on the historical losses incurred on defaults, adjusted 
with any forward-looking macro-economic factors 
which is subject to estimation uncertainty. Similarly, the 
Company computes the Loss Given Default based on the 
recovery rates as estimated by management.
Considering the above, allowance for Expected Credit Loss 
on Loan Assets requires a high degree of judgement and 
estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of outcomes 
which have a significant impact on the financial statements. 
Accordingly, we have determined Provision for ECL on Loans 
as Key Audit Matter.
	
Evaluated the Company’s accounting policy in respected of 
ECL provisioning in compliance with requirements of  Ind AS 
109 ‘Financial Instruments’
	
Assessed & validated the design and operating effectiveness 
of controls across the processes relevant to allowance 
for ECL. These controls, among others, included controls 
over the appropriateness of data used for measurement, 
allocation of assets into stages including management’s 
monitoring of stage effectiveness, financial information 
used for deriving PD and LGD, computation of PD, LGD and 
consequently the ECL as at the reporting date and posting of 
related journal entries.
	
Verified on sample basis, the completeness of loans included 
in the Expected Credit Loss calculations as of 31 March 2025 
and the accuracy of the source data
	
Selected samples & verified appropriateness of classification 
of loan assets in stage I, II and III in accordance with the 
policy approved by the Board of Directors.
	
Examined the appropriateness of information used in the 
estimation of the Probability of Default (‘PD’) and recomputed 
the average PD to applied for measurement of ECL as at 
the reporting date. Further, validated the information of the 
macro-economic factors used for determining the PD from 
external sources.
	
Validating the recoverability analysis performed by the 
management for cases tagged as non-performing assets as 
at the reporting date for determining the  Loss given Default 
(‘LGD’) for the different stages depending on the nature of 
the portfolio. Performed re-computation of LGD at each 
pledge level.
	
Selected 
samples 
of 
exposure 
and 
verified 
the 
appropriateness of determining Exposure at Default (EAD), 
PD and LGD.
	
Performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision 
levels at each stage.
	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures 
in compliance with the Ind AS 107 in relation to ECL 
especially in relation to judgements used in estimation of 
ECL provision.
Information Technology (‘IT’) Systems and Controls:
The IT environment of the Company is complex and involves 
a large number of independent and interdependent modules 
used in the operations of the Company for processing and 
recording a large volume of transactions. As a result, there is 
a high degree of reliance and dependency on such IT systems 
for the financial reporting process of the Company
In particular, the IT system is used for recording all 
disbursements and collections, identification and tagging of 
pledged loans to customers and calculating interest income 
and overdue days.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included the 
following, but were not limited to the following:
	
Involved IT specialists as part of the audit for the purpose of 
testing the IT general controls and application controls to 
determine the accuracy of the information produced by the 
Company’s IT systems; 
	
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT Environment, 
IT Applications and related infrastructure to assess 
the controls with reference to preparation of financial 
statements.
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
183
Other Information 
7.	
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s 
annual report but does not include the Standalone Financial 
Statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Other 
Information is expected to be made available to us after 
the date of this auditor’s report.
8.	
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does 
not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
9.	
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes available 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the Standalone Financial 
Statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on 
the work we have performed, we conclude that there is 
a material misstatement of this other information, we are 
required to report that fact.
10.	 When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance 
and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant 
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with 
Governance 
for 
the 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements
11.	 The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the 
Act, with respect to the preparation of these Standalone 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the 
financial position, financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, change in equity and Cash Flows 
of the Company in conformity with the Indian Accounting 
Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection of the appropriate accounting 
software for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations including those related to retention of audit logs; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Key Audit Matter 
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
The Company’s accounting and financial reporting processes 
are dependent on automated controls enabled by IT systems 
which impacts key financial accounting and reporting items 
such as loans, interest income, impairment on loans amongst 
others. 
The reliability and security of IT systems play a key role 
in the business operation. The controls implemented by 
the Company in its IT environment determine the integrity, 
accuracy, completeness and validity of data that is processed 
by the applications and is ultimately used for financial 
reporting. 
Accordingly, we have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key 
audit matter because of the high-level automation, significant 
number of modules being used by the management and the 
complexity of the IT architecture and its impact on the financial 
reporting system.
	
Tested design and operating effectiveness of key controls 
operating 
over 
user 
access 
management, 
change 
management and other IT operations (which includes 
testing of key controls pertaining to, backup and incident 
management and data centre security), System interface 
controls. This included testing that requests for access 
to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed, and 
authorized;
	
Testing the controls laid down by the management over 
modification of transactions recognised in the accounting 
modules or insertion or deletion of transactions in the 
accounting module. Further tested the controls with respect 
to insertion or modification of interest rate masters and 
customer transaction history.
	
Examined the process and procedures and other 
documentations for complying with the requirements 
of the RBI Master Direction on Information Technology 
Governance, Risk, Controls and Assurance Practices (DoS.
CO.CSITEG/SEC.7/31.01.015/2023-24 dated November 7, 
2023)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
184
12.	 In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the 
Management of the Company and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends 
to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
13.	 The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing 
the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
14.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone 
Financial Statements. As part of an audit in accordance 
with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
14.1	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
14.2.	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) 
the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Company has adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
14.3.	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and the 
Board of Directors.
14.4.	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
14.5.	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
15.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
16.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
17.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements of the current year and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
18.	 The Standalone Financial Statement of the Company for the 
financial year ended 31 March 2024 were audited by the 
predecessor joint auditors, M S K A & Associates, Chartered 
Accountants and S K Patodia & Associates LLP, Chartered 
Accountants whose audit report dated 24 May 2024 had 
expressed an unmodified opinion on those Standalone 
Financial Statement. Our opinion on the Standalone 
Financial Statement is not modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
19.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (the ‘Order’), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, 
we give in the ‘Annexure A’ a statement on the matters 
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
185
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable.
20.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
20.1.	We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
20.2.	In our opinion, proper books of accounts as required by 
law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books except for the matters 
stated in paragraph 21.8 below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended).
20.3.	The standalone balance sheet, the standalone statement of 
profit and loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Cash 
Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the books of account.
20.4.	In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 
133 of the Act read with the relevant rules thereunder.
20.5.	On the basis of the written representations received from 
the directors as on 31 March 2025 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 
31 March 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164(2) of the Act.
20.6.	With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other 
matters connected therewith, reference is made to our 
remarks in paragraph 20.2 above on reporting under 
Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 21.8 below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended).
20.7.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure B’.
20.8.	In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the 
Company to its directors during the current year is in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. 
The remuneration paid to any director is not in excess of the 
limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
21.	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), 
in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
21.1.	The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations as at 31 March 2025 on its financial position in 
its Standalone Financial Statements – Refer Note no. 41 to 
the Standalone Financial Statements;
21.2.	The Company has recognised the expected credit loss 
on the loans as per the requirements of the Ind AS 109 
‘Financial Instruments’. (Refer note no. 10 to the standalone 
financial statements). As represented to us  The Company 
did not have any  other long-term contracts including 
derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses (Refer Note no. 76 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements)
21.3.	There was an instance of delay in transferring amounts 
pertaining to Unpaid Dividend (INR 0.86 million), required 
to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company. (Refer Note no. 77 to Standalone 
Financial Statements)
21.4.	The Management has represented that to best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in Note no. 64B to the 
Standalone Financial Statements that no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
21.5.	The Management has represented that to best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in Note no. 64B to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, that no funds have been 
received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
21.6.	Based on such audit procedures, that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, performed 
by us, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representation under paragraph ‘21.4’ and 
‘21.5’ contain any material misstatement.
21.7.	As stated in note no. 25 b to the Standalone Financial 
Statements, the interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Company during the financial year and until the date of this 
audit report is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
186
21.8	Based on our examination which included test checks, the 
company has used an accounting software for maintaining 
its books of account which has a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility. Further, the audit trail facility has been 
operating throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software. The master records of certain 
modules  can be accessed by the database administrator 
wherein trail of changes made by database administrator 
is not captured. As represented to us, the privilege access 
and release management operations performed by Data 
Base Administrator is monitored by Company’s database 
monitoring team on a daily basis.
Further, during the course of our audit, based on our examination 
and representation made by the management, we did not come 
across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with. 
The audit trail to monitor changes to the tables, where old value 
has been stored, are made effective from 30 April 2025.
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the Company 
as per the statutory requirements for record retention. The audit 
trail at the database level for one of the modules forming part of 
the application has been made effective from current financial 
year and accordingly the aforesaid audit trail or prior periods 
are not available.
For and on behalf of
KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly known as Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
For and on behalf of
Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101872W/W100045
sd/- 
Soorej Kombaht
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 164366 
UDIN: 25164366BMNUMQ2681
sd/-
Vineet Saxena
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 100770
UDIN: 25100770BMIQRN9779
Place: Valapad 
Date: 09th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 09th May, 2025
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
187
“Annexure A” to the Independent Auditor’s Report
on the Standalone Financial Statements of Manappuram Finance Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025
(Referred to in paragraph ‘19’ under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) 
i.	
(a)	
A)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment (‘PPE’) and relevant details of 
right-of-use assets.
	
	
	
The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	
The Company has a regular programme of physical 
verification of its PPE by which all PPE are verified 
in a reasonable interval in a year. In our opinion, this 
periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having 
regard to the size of the Company and the nature 
of its assets. Pursuant to the programme, certain 
PPE were physically verified by the Management 
during the year. In our opinion, and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, no material 
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
	
(C)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the title 
deeds of all the immovable properties (other than 
properties where the Company is the lessee and 
the lease agreements are duly executed in favour 
of the lessee) disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements are held in the name of the Company.
	
(d) 	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has not 
revalued its PPE (including Right of Use assets) or 
intangible assets or both during the year.
	
(e)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and on the basis of 
our examination of the records of the Company, no 
proceedings have been initiated or are pending against 
the Company for holding any benami property under 
the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 
1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and 
rules made thereunder.
ii.	
(a)	
The Company does not have any inventory, hence 
physical verification of inventory and reporting under 
paragraph 3(ii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(b)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of rupees 
five crore, in aggregate, from banks and/or financial 
institutions which are secured on the basis of security 
of Loan asset. Based on the records examined by us 
in the normal course of audit, quarterly returns or 
statements filed by the Company with such banks or 
financial institutions are in agreement with the books 
of account of the Company.
iii.	
(a)	
The Company is registered with the Reserve Bank of 
India (‘RBI’) under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 (the ‘RBI Act’) as a Non-Banking 
Financial Company (‘NBFC’), and its principal business 
is to give loans. Accordingly, paragraph 3(iii)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the investments made, 
guarantees provided, security given and the terms 
and conditions of the grant of all loans and advances 
in the nature of loans and guarantees provided are not 
prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
	
(C)	
The Company being a NBFC, registered under 
provisions of RBI Act and rules made thereunder, in 
pursuance of its compliance with provisions of the 
said Act/Rules, particularly, the Income Recognition, 
Asset Classification and Provisioning Norms, requires 
the borrower-wise details of the amount, due date for 
payment and extent of delay (that has been suggested 
in the Guidance Note on CARO 2020 issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India for reporting 
under this clause) have not been reported because it 
is not practicable to furnish such details owing to the 
voluminous nature of data generated in the normal 
course of the Company’s business. In our opinion and 
according to the information and explanations given 
to us, in respect of loans and advances in the nature 
of loans, the schedule of repayment of principal and 
payment of interest has been stipulated and in cases 
where repayment of principal and payment of interest 
is not received as stipulated, the cognizance thereof 
is taken by the Company in course of its periodic 
regulatory reporting. Refer note no. 48 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements for summarised details of such 
loans/advances which are not repaid by borrowers 
as per stipulations. According to the information and 
explanation made available to us, reasonable steps are 
taken by the Company for recovery thereof.
	
(d)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the total amount overdue 
for more than ninety days in respect of loans and 
advances in the nature of loans is ` 9,312.43 million, 
and the Company has taken reasonable steps for 
recovery of the principal and interest. According to 
the information and explanation made available to 
us, reasonable steps are taken by the Company for 
recovery thereof.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
188
Nature of Loans
No of cases
Principal Overdue 
(Amount)
Interest Overdue 
(Amount)
Total Overdue 
(Amount)
Remarks 
(if any)
Gold Loan
99,348
4,307.84
3,154.01
7,461.85
-
Non-Gold Loan
27,554
1,268.18
582.40
1,850.58
-
(e)	
The Company is registered with the Reserve Bank of 
India (‘RBI’) under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 (the ‘RBI Act’) as a Non-Banking 
Financial Company (‘NBFC’), and its principal business 
is to give loans. Accordingly, paragraph 3(iii)(e) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(f)	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances 
in the nature of loans to Promoters/Related Parties 
as defined in section 2(76) of the Act which are either 
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms 
or period of repayment.
iv.	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not granted 
any loans, made investments or provided guarantees in 
contravention of the provisions of sections 185 and 186(1) 
of the Act. The provisions of sub-sections (2) to (11) of 
Section 186 are not applicable to the Company as it is a 
NBFC registered with the RBI under section 45-IA of the 
RBI Act, and its principal business is to give loans.
v.	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted 
any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits 
from the public during the year in terms of directives issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India or the provisions of Sections 
73 to 76 or any other relevant provisions of the Act and the 
rules framed there under. Accordingly, paragraph 3(v) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company. We are informed 
by the Management that no order has been passed by the 
Company Law Board, National Company Law Tribunal or 
Reserve Bank of India or any Court or any other Tribunal 
on the Company in respect of the aforesaid deposits.
vi.	
The Company is not required to maintain cost records 
under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 and 
hence reporting under paragraph 3(vi) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
vii.	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, amounts deducted/accrued in 
the books of account in respect of undisputed statutory 
dues including Goods and Services Tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, 
service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value 
added tax, cess and any other statutory dues have 
generally been regularly deposited by the Company 
with the appropriate authorities.
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect 
of provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, Goods and Services Tax, duty of customs, 
cess and other material statutory dues were in arrears 
as at 31 March 2025 for a period of more than six 
months from the date they became payable.
(b)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, we report that the following 
dues of Goods and Services Tax, income-tax, value 
added tax, cess and any other statutory dues, have 
not been deposited to/with the appropriate authority 
on account of any dispute.
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Amount 
(` In 
Million)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Kerala Value Added Tax, 
2003
Value Added Tax 
(excluding penalty 
and interest, if any)
53.23 Assessment Years 2009- 
10, 2010-11, 2011-12, 2012- 
13 and 2014-15
Appellate Tribunal
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
307.20 Assessment Year 
2015-16
ITAT
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
36.90 Assessment Year 
2015-16 & 2016-17
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals), Cochin
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
57.82 Assessment Year 
2015-16
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals), Cochin
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
22.70 Assessment Year 
2015-16
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals), Cochin
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
462.20 Assessment Year 
2020-21
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
189
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Amount 
(` In 
Million)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
0.78 Assessment Year 
2022-23
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals)
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017- Haryana
Good and Service 
Tax
2.81 Financial Year 2017-18
Appeal filed before Joint 
Commissioner (Appeals)
Goods and Services 
tax Act, 2017 - Andhra 
Pradesh
Goods and Service 
Tax
29.00 Financial Year 2017-18
Appeal filed before 
Commissioner of Central Tax 
(Appeals) Guntur
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 - Maharashtra
Goods and Service 
Tax
31.44 Financial Year 2018-19
Writ petition filed before 
Mumbai High Court
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 - Punjab
Goods and Service 
Tax
1.71 Financial Year 2018-19
Appeal filed before Additional/ 
Joint Commissioner (Appeals), 
Punjab
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – Karnataka
Goods and Service 
Tax
0.89 Financial Year 2019-20
Jurisdictional Officer, Amnesty 
Scheme
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 - Maharashtra
Goods and Service 
Tax
0.59 Financial Year 2019-20
Writ petition filed before 
Mumbai High Court
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – Tamil Nadu
Goods and Service 
Tax
3.76 Financial Year 2019-20
Jurisdictional Officer, Amnesty 
Scheme
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – West Bengal
Goods and Service 
Tax
0.34 Financial Year 2019-20
Jurisdictional Officer, Amnesty 
Scheme
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – Kerala
Goods and Service 
Tax
7.52 Financial Year 2020-21
Appeal filed before Additional 
Commissioner (Appeals), 
Cochin
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – Karnataka
Goods and Service 
Tax
2.56 Financial Year 2020-21
Writ Petition filed before 
Karnataka High Court
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – West Bengal
Goods and Service 
Tax
0.38 Financial Year 2020-21
-
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – Tamil Nadu
Goods and Service 
Tax
46.60 Financial Year 2020-21
Appeal Filed before Appellate 
Deputy Commissioner (GST), 
Coimbatore
Goods and Services tax 
Act, 2017 – Maharashtra
Goods and Service 
Tax
0.29 Financial Year 2020-21
Appeal filed before Joint 
Commissioner (Appeal), Navi 
Mumbai
Goods and Service Tax, 
2017 – Tamil Nadu
Goods and Service 
Tax
9,920 Financial Year 2021-22
Jurisdictional Officer, 
Tamil Nadu
viii.	 In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination 
of the records of the Company, we confirm that we have not 
come across any transactions not recorded in the books 
of account which have been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in the tax assessments under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961.
ix.	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and the records of the 
Company examined by us, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of loans or borrowings or in 
the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we 
report that the Company has not been declared 
wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority or any 
other lender.
	
(C)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has utilized 
the money obtained by way of term loans during the 
year for the purposes for which they were obtained, 
though idle/ surplus funds which were not required 
for immediate utilization were invested in liquid assets 
payable on demand.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on 
an overall examination of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company, we report that no 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
190
funds raised on short-term basis have been used for 
long-term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, we report that the 
Company has not taken any funds from any entity or 
person on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries. The Company does not have an associate 
or a Joint Venture.
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and procedures performed by us, we report that 
the Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. 
The Company does not have an associate or a Joint 
Venture. Accordingly, reporting under Clause 3(ix)(f) of 
the order is not applicable to the Company.
x.	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and on the basis of 
our examination of the records of the Company, 
the Company did not raised any monies by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instrument) during the current financial year. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 3(x)
(a) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company,The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment / private placement of shares / fully / partly 
/ optionally convertible debentures during the year. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 3(x)
(b) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, 166 instances of fraud on 
the company has been reported by the management 
during the year amounting to INR 510.47 million. 
(Refer Note No. 65 in Standalone Financial Statements)
	
(b)	
a report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the 
Act has been filed by us in Form ADT-4 as prescribed 
under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 with the Central Government vide letter dated 27 
December 2024.
	
(C)	
As represented to us by the Management, there are no 
whistle blower complaints received by the Company 
during the year.
xii.	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi 
company. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 According to the information and explanations given to us 
and based on our examination of the records of the Company, 
transactions with the related parties are in compliance 
with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and 
details of such transactions have been disclosed in Note no. 
42 of the Standalone Financial Statements as required by 
the applicable accounting standards.
xiv.	 (a)	
In our opinion and based on our examination, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till date, for the period under audit.
xv.	
According to the information and explanations given to us, 
in our opinion during the year the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected with its directors. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	
The Company is required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the RBI Act and the Company has 
obtained the required registration as a NBFC – 
Investment and Credit Company (NBFC-ICC) Loan 
Company (LC)/ Asset Finance Company (AFC)/ 
Investment Company (IC).
	
(b)	
The Company has conducted Non-Banking Financial 
activity during the year and the company holds a valid 
Certificate of Registration (‘CoR’) from the RBI as per 
the RBI Act, 1934.
	
(C) 	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(‘CIC’) as defined in the regulations made by the RBI. 
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	
In our opinion, there is no core investment Company 
within the Group (as defined in the Core Investment 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) and 
accordingly reporting under paragraph 3(xvi)(d) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvii.	 Based on the overall review of standalone financial 
statements, the Company has not incurred any cash 
losses in the current financial year and in the immediately 
preceding financial year. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under paragraph 3(xvii) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
xviii.	 There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year and accordingly, paragraph 3(xviii) of the 
Order is not applicable. The predecessor joint statutory 
auditors completed their term of three years and post our 
appointment as the joint statutory auditors of the Company 
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
191
for the financial year 2024-25 in the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on 14 August 2024, we had 
sought no-objection certificates from the predecessor joint 
statutory auditors, which were duly received by us.
xix.	  According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realization of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, other information accompanying 
the financial statements, our knowledge of the Board 
of Directors and Management plans and based on our 
examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, 
nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to 
believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date 
of the audit report that the Company is not capable of 
meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet 
as and when they fall due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not 
an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. 
We further state that our reporting is based on the facts 
up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx.	
(a)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records of 
the Company, it is not required to transfer any unspent 
amount pertaining to the year under report to a Fund 
specified in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013 
in compliance with second proviso to sub-section (5) 
of section 135 of the said Act.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, there are no unspent amounts in 
respect of any ongoing projects that are required to 
be transferred to a special account in compliance of 
provision of sub-section 6 of section 135 of the Act. 
The same has been adequately disclosed in note no. 
34 to the standalone financial statements.
xxi.	 The reporting under paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial 
statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the said 
paragraph has been included in the report.
For and on behalf of
KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly known as Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
For and on behalf of
Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101872W/W100045
sd/- 
Soorej Kombaht
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 164366 
UDIN: 25164366BMNUMQ2681
sd/-
Vineet Saxena
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 100770
UDIN: 25100770BMIQRN9779
Place: Valapad 
Date: 09th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 09th May, 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
192
“Annexure B” to the Independent Auditor’s Report
on the Standalone Financial Statements of Manappuram Finance Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025
(Referred to in paragraph ’20.7’ under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements under Clause 
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(the ‘Act’).
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements of the “Company” as of 
March 31, 2024 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended on 
that date.
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements of 
Manappuram Finance Limited (the ‘Company’) as at 31 
March 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended on 
that date.
2.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
the Standalone Financial Statements and such internal 
financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 
March 2025, based on the internal controls over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the ‘Guidance Note’).
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
3.	
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal controls over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Act.
Auditor’s responsibility
4.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone 
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing (‘SA’), prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone 
Financial Statements. Those SAs and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with the ethical requirements and 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements were 
established and maintained and whether such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
5.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to the Standalone Financial 
Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone 
Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding 
of internal financial controls with reference to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that 
a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the 
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to the Standalone Financial Statements
7.	
A Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
the Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone 
Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone 
Financial Statements include those policies and procedures 
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
193
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the Company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the 
Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
8.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to the Standalone Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be 
detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial 
Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For and on behalf of
KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly known as Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
For and on behalf of
Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101872W/W100045
sd/- 
Soorej Kombaht
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 164366 
UDIN: 25164366BMNUMQ2681
sd/-
Vineet Saxena
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 100770
UDIN: 25100770BMIQRN9779
Place: Valapad 
Date: 09th May, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 09th May, 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
194
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note 
No:
As at 
31st March 2025
As at 
31st March 2024
ASSETS
1
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
8
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
Bank balances other than above
9
 2,249.93 
 2,073.64 
Derivative financial instruments
17
301.17 
 - 
Loans
10
 334,030.18 
 290,588.92 
Investments
11
 18,218.53 
 17,655.71 
Other financial assets
12
 4,831.45 
 2,910.84 
2
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net) 
13
 661.06 
 524.94 
Deferred tax assets (net)
35
 936.68 
 929.54 
Property, Plant and Equipment
14
 4,095.21 
 3,597.31 
Capital work-in-progress
14
 114.70 
 333.46 
Right of use asset
41(iii)
 4,253.41 
 4,448.36 
Other intangible assets
15
 174.04 
 107.27 
Other non-financial assets
16
 593.67 
 466.75 
Total Assets
 398,355.69 
 338,930.60 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
LIABILITIES
1
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments
17
 - 
 110.22 
Payables
a) 	
Trade payables
18
	
(i) 	
total outstanding dues of micro, small and medium enterprises
 - 
 2.23 
	
(ii) 	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro, small and 
medium enterprises
 1,003.91 
 1,064.02 
Debt securities
19
 61,555.37 
 44,339.81 
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
20
 208,903.60 
 180,328.51 
Subordinated liabilities
21
 - 
 - 
Lease liability
41(iii)
 5,236.13 
 5,339.14 
Other financial liabilities
22
2,523.94
 2,541.02 
2
Non-financial Liabilities
Provisions
23
 623.57 
 573.07 
Other non-financial liabilities
24
 580.80 
 1,139.90 
Total Liabilities
2,80,427.32
 235,437.92 
3
EQUITY
Equity share capital
25
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
Other equity
26
 116,235.50 
 101,799.81 
Total Equity
 117,928.37 
 103,492.68 
Total Liabilities and Equity
 398,355.69 
 338,930.60 
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial statements.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place : Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: 9th May, 2025	
Date: 9th May, 2025
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
195
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note No
For the year ended 
31st March 2025
For the year ended 
31st March 2024
(I)
Revenue from operations
(i)
Interest income
27 (i)
 68,707.13 
 57,544.88 
(ii)
Fees and commission income
27 (ii)
 18.82 
 29.99 
(iii)
Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
27 (iv)
 (7.36)
 0.01 
(iv)
Net gain/(Loss) on derecognition of financial instruments
 319.55 
 407.22 
(v)
Dividend Income
27 (iii)
 - 
 150.00 
(vi)
Other operating income
27 (v)
 25.52 
 167.05 
Total Revenue from operations (I)
 69,063.66 
 58,299.15 
(II)
Other income 
28
 81.05 
 247.35 
(III)
Total income (I + II)
 69,144.72 
 58,546.49 
Expenses
(i)
Finance costs
29
 23,761.28 
 18,280.36 
(ii)
Fees and commision expense
30
 811.15 
 506.33 
(iii)
Impairment on financial instruments
31
 2,630.35 
 1,083.98 
(iv)
Employee benefits expenses
32
 11,708.36 
 10,221.73 
(v)
Depreciation and amortisation
33
 2,013.37 
 1,878.33 
(vi)
Other expenses 
34
 4,461.92 
 4,359.50 
(IV)
Total expenses (IV) 
 45,386.43 
 36,330.23 
(V)
Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III -  IV)
 23,758.29 
 22,216.26 
(VI)
Exceptional items
74
 197.77 
 - 
(VII)
Profit before tax (V+VI)
 23,956.06 
 22,216.26 
(VIII)
Tax expense:
35
(1)
Current tax
 6,129.71 
 5,727.56 
(2)
Deferred tax
 (6.33)
 (89.05)
(3)
Earlier years tax adjustments
 - 
 - 
Total Tax Expense
 6,123.38 
 5,638.51 
(IX)
Profit for the year (VII - VIII)
 17,832.67 
 16,577.75 
(X)
Other comprehensive income
A
(i) 	
Items that will not be re classified to profit or loss 
 (42.62)
 (13.48)
(a) 	
Remeasurement gain/(loss) on post-employment defined benefit plans.
(ii) 	
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 10.73 
 3.39 
Subtotal (A)
(31.89)
(10.09)
B
(i)	
Items that will be classified to profit or loss 
 39.39 
 (114.69)
(a) 	
Fair value changes of cash flow hedges
(ii) 	
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
 (9.91)
 28.88 
Subtotal (B)
29.47 
(85.81)
Other comprehensive income (A+B)
(2.42)
(95.90)
(XI)
Total comprehensive income for the year (IX + X) 
(Comprising profit and other comprehensive income for the year)
 17,830.25 
 16,481.85 
(XII)
Earnings per equity share (Nominal value per share - `2)
36
Basic (`)
 21.07 
 19.59 
Diluted (`)
 21.07 
 19.59 
See accompanying notes forming part of the standalone financial statements.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place : Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: 9th May, 2025	
Date: 9th May, 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
196
Standalone Statement of  changes in Equity Capital
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
A. 	 Equity share capital
(1)	 For the year ended 31st March, 2025
Balance at the beginning of the current reporting period
Changes in Equity Share 
Capital due to prior 
period errors
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the current 
reporting period
Changes in equity 
share capital during the 
current year
Balance at the end of 
the current reporting 
period
 1,692.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,692.87 
(2)	 For the year ended 31st March, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the current reporting period
Changes in Equity Share 
Capital due to prior 
period errors
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the current 
reporting period
Changes in equity 
share capital during the 
current year
Balance at the end of 
the current reporting 
period
 1,692.79 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
 1,692.87 
B. 	 Other Equity
	
Year ended 31st March, 2025
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income 
Total
Statutory 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Share option 
outstanding 
account
Impairment 
Reserve
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Hedge 
reserve
Remeasurement 
of Gain/ (Loss On 
Defined Benefit 
Plan
Effective 
Portion of 
Cash Flow 
Hedges
Balance as at 1st April, 2024
 (0.00) 23,025.21 
 14,118.12 
 (0.00)
 439.93  3,760.33  60,652.17 
 5.41 
 (111.60)
 (89.74) 101,799.82 
Changes in accounting policies or 
prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated balance at the beginning 
of the current reporting period
 (0.00) 23,025.21 
 14,118.12 
 (0.00)
 439.93  3,760.33  60,652.17 
 5.41 
 (111.60)
 (89.74) 101,799.82 
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (3,385.74)
 - 
 - 
 (3,385.74)
Transfer to/from retained earnings
 -  3,566.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,561.12)
 (5.41)
 - 
 (0.00)
Any other Change
Share Issue Expenses
 - 
 - 
 (8.83)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8.83)
Profit for the year (net of taxes)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17,832.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17,832.67 
Other comprehensive income for 
the year (net of taxes)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (31.89)
 29.47 
 (2.42)
Balance as at 31st March, 2025
 (0.00)  26,591.74  14,109.29 
 (0.00)
 439.93  3,760.33  71,537.97 
 (0.00)
 (143.49)
 (60.27) 116,235.50 
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
197
	
Year ended 31st March, 2024
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income 
Total
Statutory 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Share option 
outstanding 
account
Impairment 
Reserve
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Hedge 
reserve
Remeasurement 
of Gain/ (Loss On 
Defined Benefit 
Plan
Effective 
Portion of 
Cash Flow 
Hedges
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
 (0.00) 19,709.66  14,108.75 
 137.83 
 439.93  3,627.02 
 50,183.14 
 5.41 
 (101.51)
 (3.93)
 88,106.29 
Changes in accounting policies or 
prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated balance at the beginning 
of the current reporting period
 (0.00) 19,709.66  14,108.75 
 137.83 
 439.93  3,627.02 
 50,183.14 
 5.41 
 (101.51)
 (3.93)
 88,106.29 
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,793.18)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,793.18)
Transfer to/from retained earnings
 - 
 3,315.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,315.55)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Any other Change
Options Lapsed
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (133.31)
 - 
 133.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Share premium received during the 
year
 - 
 - 
 9.37 
 (4.52)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.85 
Profit for the year (net of taxes)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16,577.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16,577.75 
Other comprehensive income for 
the year (net of taxes)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (10.09)
 (85.81)
 (95.90)
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
 (0.00) 23,025.21 
 14,118.12 
 (0.00)
 439.93  3,760.33  60,652.17 
 5.41 
 (111.60)
 (89.74)  101,799.81 
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P.  Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place : Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V.  R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770
Place: Mumbai 	
Place: Valapad
Date: 9th May, 2025	
Date: 9th May, 2025
Standalone Statement of  changes in Equity Capital
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
198
Standalone Cash flow Statement
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2024
A.
Cash flow from operating activities
Net profit before tax
 23,956.06 
 22,216.26 
Adjustments for:
Interest income on loans
 (67,099.47)
 (56,629.48)
Depreciation and amortization expense
 2,013.37 
 1,878.33 
Impairment on financial instruments
 753.31 
 360.96 
Finance costs
 23,761.28 
 18,280.36 
Provisions
 (26.52)
 (5.53)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 (9.78)
 (5.85)
Interest income from banks, investments and others
 (1,607.66)
 (915.41)
Dividend Received
 - 
 (150.00)
Operational cash flows from interest
Interest received on loans
 63,991.32 
 50,053.76 
Finance costs
 (22,178.23)
 (18,054.91)
Operating Profit before working capital changes
 23,553.69 
 17,028.50 
Changes in working capital and loans:
Decrease / (increase) in non-financial assets
 (49.35)
 137.07 
Decrease / (increase) in loans
 (41,083.44)
 (38,789.90)
Decrease / (increase) in other financial assets
 (1,835.85)
 (747.57)
Increase / (decrease) in trade payables
 (62.35)
 104.50 
Increase / (decrease) in other financial liabilities
 (1,105.71)
 267.61 
Increase / (decrease) in provisions
 70.80 
 (124.92)
Increase / (decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
 (559.11)
 (260.36)
 (44,625.00)
 (39,413.57)
Cash generated from operations
 (21,071.31)
 (22,385.07)
Net income tax (paid)
 (6,265.84)
 (6,244.06)
Net cash flows from/(used in) operating activities (A)
 (27,337.15)
 (28,629.13)
B.
Cash flow from investing activities
Capital expenditure, including capital advances
 (1,430.05)
 (952.82)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 12.75 
 7.11 
(Purchase) / Sale of investments
 (562.81)
 (3,113.37)
Interest received
 1,522.89 
 847.17 
Dividend Received
 - 
 150.00 
Bank balances not considered as cash and cash equivalents
 (176.29)
 (5.63)
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities (B)
 (633.51)
 (3,067.55)
C.
Cash flow from financing activities
Debt securities issued (net)
 17,215.56 
 (5,268.27)
Borrowings (other than debt securities) issued (net)
 28,163.71 
 37,720.90 
Proceeds from issue of equity shares
 - 
 0.08 
Share Issue Expenses
 (8.83)
 - 
Share premium on equity shares allotted
 - 
 4.85 
Dividend paid, including dividend distribution tax
 (3,385.74)
 (2,793.18)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
199
Standalone Cash flow Statement
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2024
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,412.24)
 (1,400.84)
Net cash flow from /(used in) financing activities (C)
 40,572.46 
 28,263.55 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 12,601.80 
 (3,433.14)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 15,293.86 
 18,727.00 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Particulars
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2024
i)	
Cash on hand
 1,787.49 
 1,155.38 
ii)	
Balances with banks (Of the nature of cash and cash equivalents)
 9,798.42 
 4,312.52 
iii)	
Others -
	
a)	
Foreign currency balances
 1.16 
 0.64 
	
b)	
Bank deposit with maturity of less than 3 months
 16,308.59 
 9,825.32 
Total
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
Note: For disclosures relating to changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, refer note 40.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place : Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: 9th May, 2025	
Date: 9th May, 2025
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
200
1	
Corporate Information 
	
Manappuram Finance Limited (‘MAFIL’ or the ‘Company’) 
is a public limited company incorporated on 15th July, 
1992 in India. The company’s registered office is at W/638 
A, Manappuram House, Valapad P.O, Thrissur - 680567, 
Kerala. The principal place of business is Thrissur, Kerala. 
The equity shares of the Company are listed on the 
BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (NSE).
	
MAFIL is registered with the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) as a Systemically Important Non-Deposit Taking 
Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI) and has 
been classified as NBFC-ML (Middle layer) by the RBI as 
per ‘Scale Based Regulation’. The Company is engaged 
in providing a wide range of fund-based and fee-based 
financial services, including gold loans, financing 
commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles, construction 
equipment, farm equipment, micro, small and medium 
enterprises, two-wheelers, and personal loans and foreign 
exchange services.
	
The registration details are: Reserve Bank of India 
Registration no : B-16.00029 Corporate Identity Number 
(CIN): L65910KL1992PLC006623 Authorised Dealer 
Registration No: KOC-ADII-0041-2023
	
PPI(COA)NO: 101/2017
	
The Company is the parent company of the Manappuram 
Home Finance Limited, Asirvad Microfinance Limited, 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited and Manappuram 
Comptech and Consultants  Limited.	
	
The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended 31st March, 2025 on 
09th May, 2025 and recommended the financial statements 
for consideration and adoption by the shareholders in its 
Annual General Meeting.
2	
Basis of preparation
	
These standalone financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) as 
per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended by the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2016, notified under the Section 133 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and other relevant 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013., on historical cost 
basis except for certain financial instruments and defined 
benefit plans which are measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value at the end of each reporting period. The financial 
statements have been prepared as per the guidelines issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) as applicable to a NBFCs 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in India. 
Any applicable guidance / clarifications / directions issued 
by RBI or other regulators are implemented as and when 
they are issued/ applicable.The Regulatory disclosures 
as required by Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company-Scale based regulation) 
Directions, 2023 and other relevant ciruclars/ directions 
issued by RBI to be included as a part of Notes to Accounts 
are prepared as per the Ind AS financial statements, 
pursuant to the RBI notification on implementation of Indian 
Accounting Standards, dated 31st March, 2025.
	
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern 
basis in accordance with Ind AS 1. The Management 
is satisfied that the Company shall be able to continue 
its business for the foreseeable future and no material 
uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the 
going concern assumption. In making this assessment, the 
Management has considered a wide range of information 
relating to present and future conditions, including future 
projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied except 
where a newly issued accounting standard is initially 
adopted or a revision to an existing accounting standard 
requires a change in the accounting policy hitherto in use. 
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of 
certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues 
and expenses and the disclosed amount of contingent 
liabilities. Areas involving a higher degree of judgement 
or complexity, or areas where assumptions are significant 
to the Company are discussed in Note on Significant 
accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
	
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees 
(INR) which is also the functional currency of the company 
and all values are rounded to the nearest millions, except 
when otherwise indicated.
3	
Presentation of financial statement
	
The financial statements of the Company are presented 
as per Schedule III (Division III) of the Companies Act, 2013 
applicable to Non-banking Finance Companies (NBFCs), 
as notified by the MCA. The Statement of Cash Flows is 
presented as per the requirements of Ind AS 7 - Statement of 
Cash Flows. The Company classifies its assets and liabilities 
as financial and non financial and presents them in the 
order of liquidity. An analysis regarding expected recovery 
or settlement within 12 months after the reporting date and 
more than 12 months after the reporting date is presented 
in notes to the financial statements. Financial assets and 
financial liabilities are generally reported on a gross basis 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
201
except when, there is an unconditional legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts without being 
contingent on a future event and the parties intend to settle 
on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously as permitted by Ind AS in the following 
circumstances:
	
i. 	
The normal course of business
	
ii.	
The event of default
	
iii.	
The event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company 
and/or its counterparties.
	
Similarly, the Company offsets incomes and expenses 
and reports the same on a net basis where the netting off 
reflects the substance of the transaction or other events as 
permitted by Ind AS.
4	
Statement of compliance
	
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(referred to as ‘Ind AS’) as prescribed under section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from time 
to time and notified under Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the other accounting policies generally 
accepted in India as referred to in paragraph 2 “Basis of 
Preparation” above.
5	
Material accounting policies (Also refer note 2 
above)
5.1	 Investments in subsidiary
	
Equity investment in subsidiary is recognised at cost as 
permissible under Ind AS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements 
and not adjusted to fair value at the end of each reporting 
period. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the 
said investments (net of impairment).
	
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries: The Company 
reviews its carrying value of investments carried at cost 
(net of impairment, if any) annually, or more frequently 
when there is indication for impairment. If the recoverable 
amount is less than its carrying amount, the impairment 
loss is accounted for in the statement of profit and loss
	
5.1A	 Recognition of Securitised assets and direct 
assignment transactions:
	
	
Pursuant to the regulatory guidance on Ind AS issued by 
RBI dated 13th March, 2020 to promote consistent Ind 
AS implementation among NBFCs, the Company has 
changed its policy on accounting for securitised assets 
and direct assignment transactions. The securitised 
assets which were hitherto, de-recognized in the books 
based on ‘True Sale Criteria’ prescribed by RBI, will be 
now re-recognised in the books along with interest 
income using effective interest rate as the company 
has not transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards in accordance with the provisions of Indian 
Accounting Standard 109 (Ind AS 109), ‘Financial 
Instruments’ . Proceeds received from securitisation 
will be recognised as Borrowings (other than debt 
securities) and Interest thereon will be recognised as 
Finance cost.
	
	
In respect of Direct Assignment transactions, assets 
continue to be derecognized in the books as it 
fulfils “True Sale Criteria” prescribed by RBI and has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards in 
accordance with the provisions of Indian Accounting 
Standard No.109 (Ind AS 109), ‘Financial Instruments’ 
and the gain on sale of assets arising from such direct 
assignment transactions, will be recognised at fair 
value of interest strip.
5.2	 Financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the financial instruments.
	
On initial recognition, financial assets and financial liabilities 
are recognised at fair value plus/ minus transaction cost 
that is attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial 
assets and financial liabilities. In case of financial assets 
and financial liabilities which are recognised at fair value 
through profit and loss (FVTPL), its transaction costs are 
recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
(A)	 Financial Assets
	
	
(i)	
Classification of financial instruments
	
	
	
The Company classifies its financial assets into 
the following measurement categories:
	
	
	
1.	
Financial assets to be measured at 
amortised cost
	
	
	
2.	
Financial assets to be measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income
	
	
	
3.	
Financial assets to be measured at fair value 
through profit or loss account
	
	
	
The classification depends on the contractual 
terms of the financial assets’ cash flows and 
the Company’s business model for managing 
financial assets.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
202
	
	
	
The Company determines its business model 
at the level that best reflects how it manages 
groups of financial assets to achieve its business 
objective. The business model is assessed on 
the basis of aggregated portfolios based on 
observable factors. These factors include:
	
	
	
	
Reports reviewed by the entity’s 
key management personnel on the 
performance of the financial assets
	
	
	
	
The risks impacting the performance of the 
business model (and the financial assets 
held within that business model) and its 
management thereof
	
	
	
	
The compensation of the managing teams 
(for example, whether the compensation 
is based on the fair value of the assets 
managed or on the contractual cash flows 
collected)
	
	
	
	
The expected frequency, value and timing 
of trades.
	
	
	
The business model assessment is based 
on reasonably expected scenarios without 
taking ‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ scenarios 
into account.
	
	
	
The Company also assesses the contractual 
terms of financial assets on the basis of its 
contractual cash flow characteristics that are 
solely for the payments of principal and interest 
on the principal amount outstanding. ‘Principal’ is 
defined as the fair value of the financial asset at 
initial recognition and may change over the life 
of the financial asset (for example, if there are 
repayments of principal or amortisation of the 
premium/discount).
	
	
	
The classification depends on the contractual 
terms of the financial assets’ cash flows and 
the Company’s business model for managing 
financial assets. The Company determines its 
business model at the level that best reflects 
how it manages groups of financial assets to 
achieve its business objective. The business 
model is assessed on the basis of aggregated 
portfolios based on observable factors. 
These factors include:
	
	
	
1.	
Reports reviewed by the entity’s 
key management personnel on the 
performance of the financial assets
	
	
	
2.	
The risks impacting the performance of the 
business model (and the financial assets 
held within that business model) and its 
management thereof
	
	
	
3.	
The compensation of the managing teams 
(for example, whether the compensation 
is based on the fair value of the assets 
managed or on the contractual cash flows 
collected)
	
	
	
4.	
The expected frequency, value and timing 
of trades.
	
	
	
The business model assessment is based 
on reasonably expected scenarios without 
taking ‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ scenarios 
into account.
	
	
	
The Company also assesses the contractual 
terms of financial assets on the basis of its 
contractual cash flow characteristics that are 
solely for the payments of principal and interest 
on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
‘Principal’ s defined as the fair value of the 
financial asset at initial recognition and may 
change over the life of the financial asset (for 
example, if there are repayments of principal or 
amortisation of the premium/discount).
	
	
	
In making this assessment, the Company 
considers whether the contractual cash flows 
are consistent with a basic lending arrangement 
i.e. interest includes only consideration for the 
time value of money, credit risk, other basic 
lending risks and a profit margin that is consistent 
with a basic lending arrangement. Where the 
contractual terms introduce exposure to risk 
or volatility that are inconsistent with a basic 
lending arrangement, the related financial asset 
is classified and measured at fair value through 
profit or loss.
	
	
	
The Company classifies its financial liabilities 
at amortised costs unless it has designated 
liabilities at fair value through the profit and loss 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
203
account or is required to measure liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss such as derivative 
liabilities.
	
	
(ii)	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
	
These Financial assets comprise bank balances, 
Loans, investments in debt securities and other 
financial assets.
	
	
	
Financial assets that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using Effective Interest Rate 
method (EIR):
	
	
	
1.	
Financial Assets with contractual terms that 
give rise to cash flows on specified dates, 
and represent solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount 
outstanding; and
	
	
	
2.	
The assets are held within a business 
model whose objective is achieved by 
holding to collect contractual cash flows 
are measured at amortised cost.
	
	
	
These financial assets are initially recognised at 
fair value plus directly attributable transaction 
costs and subsequently measured at amortised 
cost. Transaction costs are incremental costs 
that are directly attributable to the acquisition, 
issue or disposal of a financial asset or a financial 
liability.
	
	
	
Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method –
	
	
	
The effective interest rate method is a method 
of calculating the amortised cost of financial 
asset and of allocating interest income over 
the expected life. The Company while applying 
EIR method, generally amortises any fees, 
transaction costs and other premiums or 
discount that are integral part of the effective 
interest rate of a financial instrument.
	
	
	
Income is recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss on an effective interest rate basis for 
financial assets other than those classified 
as at FVTPL.
	
	
	
EIR is determined at the initial recognition of the 
financial asset. EIR is subsequently updated at 
every reset, in accordance with the terms of the 
respective contract.
	
	
	
Once the terms of financial assets are 
renegotiated, other than market driven interest 
rate movement, any gain / loss measured 
using the previous EIR as calculated before the 
modification, is recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss in period during which such 
renegotiations occur.
	
	
(iii)	 Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
	
	
	
A financial asset is measured at FVTOCI if both 
the following conditions are met:
	
	
	
	
The objective of the business model is 
achieved both by collecting contractual 
cash flows and selling the financial 
asset; and
	
	
	
	
The contractual terms of the asset give rise 
on specified dates to cash flows that are 
Solely Payments of Principal and Interest 
(SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
All fair value changes are recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated 
in Reserve.
	
	
	
Debt instruments
	
	
	
Investments in debt instruments are measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
where they have:
	
	
	
a)	
contractual terms that give rise to cash 
flows on specified dates, that represent 
solely payments of principal and interest 
on the principal amount outstanding; and
	
	
	
b)	
are held within a business model whose 
objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling 
financial assets.
	
	
	
These debt instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value plus directly attributable transaction 
costs and subsequently measured at fair value. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
value are included in other comprehensive 
income (a separate component of equity). 
Impairment losses or reversals, interest revenue 
and foreign exchange gains and losses are 
recognised in profit and loss. Upon disposal, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
204
other comprehensive income is reclassified from 
equity to the statement of profit and loss. As at 
the reporting date the Company does not have 
any financial instruments measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income. 
	
	
	
Equity instruments
	
	
	
Investment in equity instruments are generally 
accounted for as at fair value through the profit 
and loss account unless an irrevocable election 
has been made by management to account 
for at fair value through other comprehensive 
income Such classification is determined on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis.
	
	
(iv)	 Financial Assets measured at Fair Value 
Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)
	
	
	
A financial asset is measured at FVTPL unless it 
is measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI, with all 
changes in fair value recognised in Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
	
Items at fair value through profit or loss comprise:
	
	
	
	
Investments (including equity shares) held 
for trading;
	
	
	
	
Items specifically designated as fair 
value through profit or loss on initial 
recognition; and
	
	
	
	
debt instruments with contractual terms 
that do not represent solely payments of 
principal and interest.
	
	
	
Financial instruments held at fair value through 
profit or loss are initially recognised at fair 
value, with transaction costs recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss as incurred. 
Subsequently, they are measured at fair value 
and any gains or losses are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss as they arise.
	
	
	
Financial instruments held for trading
	
	
	
A financial instrument is classified as held for 
trading if it is acquired or incurred principally 
for selling or repurchasing in the near term, or 
forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments 
that are managed together and for which there 
is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a 
derivative not designated in a qualifying hedge 
relationship.
	
	
Trading derivatives and trading securities are classified 
as held for trading and recognised at fair value. 
	
	
(v)	
Derivatives
	
	
	
The Company enters into derivative transactions 
with various counterparties like interest rate and 
currency swaps and forwards. The Company 
undertakes derivative transactions to mitigate 
the risk of changes in exchange rates and 
interest rate on foreign currency exposures. 
The counterparty for these contracts are 
generally banks.
	
	
	
Under hedge accounting, an entity can designate 
derivative contracts either as cash flow hedge 
or fair value hedge. The Company designates 
certain derivative contracts as cash flow hedges.
	
	
	
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging 
relationship must meet all of the following 
requirements:
	
	
	
	
There is an economic relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument.
	
	
	
	
The effect of credit risk does not dominate 
the value changes that result from that 
economic relationship.
	
	
	
	
The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship 
is the same as that resulting from the 
quantity of the hedged item that the 
Company actually hedges and the 
quantity of the hedging instrument that 
the Company actually uses to hedge that 
quantity of hedged item.
	
	
	
a)	
Financial Assets or Liabilities at Fair Value 
through Profit and Loss
	
	
	
	
This category includes derivative financial 
assets/ liabilities which are not designated 
as hedges.
	
	
	
	
Although the Company believes that these 
derivative instruments constitute hedges 
from an economic perspective, they may not 
qualify for hedge accounting under Ind AS 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
205
109, Financial Instruments. Any derivatives 
that is either not designated as a hedge, or 
is designated but is ineffective as per Ind AS 
109, is categorised as a financial asset or 
liability, at fair value through profit and loss.
	
	
	
	
Derivatives not designated as hedges 
are recognised initially at fair value 
and attributable transaction costs are 
recognised in net profit in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss when incurred. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, these 
derivatives are measured at fair value 
through profit and loss and the resulting 
exchange gain or loss are included in the 
other income/ expenses.
	
	
	
b)	
Cash flow Hedge:
	
	
	
	
The Company designates certain foreign 
exchange forwards and swaps contracts 
as cash flow hedges to mitigate the risk 
of foreign exchange exposure on certain 
balance sheet liabilities.
	
	
	
	
When a derivative is designated as a cash 
flow hedge instrument, the effective portion 
of changes in the fair value of derivative 
instruments is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated 
in the cash flow hedge reserve.
	
	
	
	
Any ineffective portion of changes in the 
fair value of the derivatives is recognised 
immediately in the net profit in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss. If the hedging 
instrument no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting, then hedge accounting 
is discontinued prospectively. If the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or 
exercised, the cumulative gain or loss on 
the hedging instrument recognised in the 
cash flow hedge reserve till the period 
the hedge was effective remains in cash 
flow hedge reserve till the period the 
transaction occurs. The cumulative gain 
or loss previously recognised in the cash 
flow hedge reserve is transferred to the 
net profit in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss upon the occurrence of the related 
transaction. 
	
	
(vi)	 Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
	
	
After initial measurement, debt issued and other 
borrowed funds are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any discount or premium on 
issue funds, and transaction costs that are an 
integral part of the Effective Interest Rate (EIR).
	
	
(vii)	 Recognition and derecognition of financial 
assets and liabilities
	
	
	
A financial asset or financial liability is recognised 
in the balance sheet when the Company 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument, which is generally on trade 
date. Loans and receivables are recognised when 
cash is advanced (or settled) to the borrowers. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss are recognised initially at fair value. All other 
financial assets are recognised initially at fair 
value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
	
	
	
The Company derecognises a financial asset 
when the contractual cash flows from the 
asset expire or it transfers its rights to receive 
contractual cash flows on the financial asset 
in a transaction in which substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. 
Any interest in transferred financial assets that is 
created or retained by the Company is recognised 
as a separate asset or liability. A financial liability 
is derecognised from the balance sheet when 
the Company has discharged its obligation or the 
contract is cancelled or expires.
	
	
(viii)	 Impairment of financial assets
	
	
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company 
recognises expected credit loss (ECL) on financial 
assets measured at amortised cost as required 
under Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’. 
The Company presents the ECL charge or 
reversal (where the net amount is a negative 
balance for a particular period) in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss as “Impairment on financial 
instruments” and as a cumulative deduction from 
gross carrying amount in the Balance Sheet, 
wherever applicable.
	
	
	
The Company recognises loss allowances 
(provisions) for expected credit losses on 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
206
its financial assets (including undisbursed 
sanctioned amounts) that are measured 
at amortised costs or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income account. 
Equity instruments are not subject to impairment.
	
	
	
The Company applies a three-stage approach to 
measuring expected credit losses (ECLs) for the 
following categories of financial assets that are 
not measured at fair value through profit or loss:
	
	
	
	
debt instruments measured at amortised 
cost and fair value through other 
comprehensive income;
	
	
	
	
loan commitments.
	
	
	
	
No ECL is recognised on equity investments.
	
	
	
Financial assets migrate through the following 
three stages based on the change in credit risk 
since initial recognition:
	
	
	
Stage 1: 12-months ECL
	
	
	
For exposures where there has not been a 
significant increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition and that are not credit impaired 
upon origination, the portion of the lifetime 
ECL associated with the probability of default 
events occurring within the next 12 months is 
recognised.
	
	
	
Stage 2: Lifetime ECL – not credit impaired
	
	
	
For exposures where there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
but are not credit impaired, a lifetime ECL (i.e. 
reflecting the remaining lifetime of the financial 
asset) is recognised.
	
	
	
Stage 3: Lifetime ECL – credit impaired
	
	
	
Exposures are assessed as credit impaired when 
one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of 
that asset have occurred. For exposures that 
have become credit impaired, a lifetime ECL is 
recognised and interest revenue is calculated 
by applying the effective interest rate to the 
amortised cost (net of provision) rather than the 
gross carrying amount.
	
	
	
Estimation of Expected Credit Loss-
	
	
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are 
outlined below and the key elements are 
as follows:
	
	
	
Probability of Default (PD) - The Probability 
of Default is an estimate of the likelihood of 
default over a given time horizon. The Company 
uses historical information where available to 
determine PD. Considering the different products 
and schemes, the Company has bifurcated its 
loan portfolio into various pools. For certain 
pools where historical information is available, 
the PD is calculated considering fresh slippage 
of past years. For those pools where historical 
information is not available, the PD/ default 
rates as stated by external reporting agencies is 
considered.
	
	
	
Exposure at Default (EAD) - The Exposure at 
Default is an estimate of the exposure at a future 
default date, considering expected changes in 
the exposure after the reporting date, including 
repayments of principal and interest, whether 
scheduled by contract or otherwise, expected 
drawdowns on committed facilities, and accrued 
interest from missed payments.
	
	
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) – The Loss Given 
Default is an estimate of the loss arising in the 
case where a default occurs at a given time. It is 
based on the difference between the contractual 
cash flows due and those that the lender would 
expect to receive, including from the realisation 
of any collateral.
	
	
	
Forward looking information - While estimating 
the expected credit losses, the Company reviews 
macro-economic developments occurring in the 
economy and market it operates. On a periodic 
basis, the Company analyses if there is any 
relationship between key economic trends like 
GDP, unemployment rates, benchmark rates set 
by the Reserve Bank of India, inflation etc. with the 
estimate of PD, LGD determined by the Company 
based on its internal data. While the internal 
estimates of PD, LGD rates by the Company may 
not be always reflective of such relationships, 
temporary overlays, if any, are embedded in the 
methodology to reflect such macro-economic 
trends reasonably. To mitigate its credit risks 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
207
on financial assets, the Company seeks to use 
collateral, where possible. The collateral comes 
in various forms, such as cash, securities, letters 
of credit/guarantees, vehicles, etc. However, the 
fair value of collateral affects the calculation of 
ECL. The collateral is majorly the property for 
which the loan is given. The fair value of the 
same is based on data provided by third party or 
management judgements.
	
	
	
Determining the stage for impairment
	
	
	
At each reporting date, the Company assesses 
whether there has been a significant increase in 
credit risk for exposures since initial recognition 
by comparing the risk of default occurring over 
the expected life between the reporting date 
and the date of initial recognition. The Company 
considers reasonable and supportable 
information that is relevant and available without 
undue cost or effort for this purpose.
	
	
	
This includes quantitative and qualitative 
information and also, forward-looking analysis.
	
	
	
An exposure will migrate through the ECL stages 
as asset quality deteriorates. If, in a subsequent 
period, asset quality improves and also 
reverses any previously assessed significant 
increase in credit risk since origination, then the 
loss allowances reverts from lifetime ECL to 
12-months ECL. 
	
	
	
The loss allowances for these financial assets is 
based on a 12-months ECL.
	
	
	
When an asset is uncollectible, it is written off 
against the related allowance. Such assets are 
written off after all the necessary procedures 
have been completed and the amount of the loss 
has been determined. Subsequent recoveries 
of amounts previously written off reduce the 
amount of the allowances in the profit and loss 
statement.
	
	
	
The Company assesses whether the credit risk 
on an exposure has increased significantly on an 
individual or collective basis. For the purposes of 
a collective evaluation of impairment, financial 
instruments are grouped on the basis of shared 
credit risk characteristics, taking into account 
instrument type, credit risk ratings, date of initial 
recognition, remaining term to maturity, industry, 
geographical location of the borrower and other 
relevant factors.
	
	
	
Measurement of ECLs
	
	
	
ECLs are derived from unbiased and 
probability-weighted estimates of expected loss, 
and are measured as follows:
	
	
	
	
Financial assets that are not credit-impaired 
at the reporting date: as the present value 
of all cash shortfalls over the expected life 
of the financial asset discounted by the 
effective interest rate. The cash shortfall 
is the difference between the cash flows 
due to the Company in accordance with 
the contract and the cash flows that the 
Company expects to receive. The Company 
has grouped its various financial assets 
in to pools containing loans bearing 
homogeneous risks characteristics. 
The probability of default for the pools are 
computed based on the historical trends, 
adjusted for any forward looking factors. 
Similarly the Company computes the Loss 
Given Default based on the recovery rates.
	
	
	
	
Financial assets that are credit-impaired 
at the reporting date: as the difference 
between the gross carrying amount and 
the present value of estimated future 
cash flows discounted by the effective 
interest rate.
	
	
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments: as the 
present value of the difference between 
the contractual cash flows that are due to 
the Company if the commitment is drawn 
down and the cash flows that the Company 
expects to receive.
	
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts: as the 
expected payments to reimburse the 
holder less any amounts that the Company 
expects to recover.
	
	
	
ECL on Debt instruments measured at fair value 
through OCI
	
	
	
The ECLs for debt instruments measured at 
FVOCI do not reduce the carrying amount of 
these financial assets in the balance sheet, 
which remains at fair value. Instead, an amount 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
208
equal to the allowance that would arise if the 
assets were measured at amortised cost is 
recognised in OCI as an accumulated impairment 
amount, with a corresponding charge to profit 
or loss. The accumulated loss recognised in 
OCI is recycled to the profit and loss upon 
derecognition of the assets. As at the reporting 
date the Company does not have any debt 
instruments measured at fair value through OCI.
	
	
	
ECL on Investment in Government securities
	
	
	
The Company has invested in Government 
of India loans. Investment in Government 
securities are classified under stage 1. No ECL 
has been applied on these investments as there 
is no history of delay in servicing of interest/ 
repayments. The Company does not expect any 
delay in interest/redemption servicing in future.
	
	
	
ECL on Loans secured by the Company’s 
fixed deposit
	
	
	
No ECL has been applied on loans given against 
the Company’s fixed deposit as they are fully 
secured by the Company’s fixed deposits.
	
	
	
ECL on Fixed Deposits with Banks
	
	
	
No ECL is applied on fixed deposit held with banks 
as there is no history of default. However, in case 
of any downgrade in the credit rating of the banks 
where fixed deposit is held, the Company would 
provide for ECL computed in an appropriate 
methodology.
	
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments
	
	
	
When estimating ECL for undrawn loan 
commitments, a credit conversion factor of 100% 
is applied for expected drawdown. The Company 
discloses ECL allowance on undrawn loan 
commitments under the head ‘Provisions’ under 
non-financial liabilities.
	
	
	
Collateral Valuation
	
	
	
To mitigate its credit risks on financial assets, the 
Company seeks to use collateral, where possible. 
The collateral comes in various forms, such as 
movable and immovable assets, guarantees, , 
etc. However, the fair value of collateral affects 
the calculation of ECLs. To the extent possible, 
the Company uses active market data for valuing 
financial assets held as collateral. Other financial 
assets which do not have readily determinable 
market values are valued using models. 
Non-financial collateral, such as vehicles, is 
valued based on data provided by third parties 
or management judgements.
	
	
	
Collateral repossessed
	
	
	
In its normal course of business whenever default 
occurs, the Company may take possession of 
properties or other assets in its retail portfolio 
and generally disposes such assets through 
auction, to settle outstanding debt. Any surplus 
funds are returned to the customers/obligors. 
As a result of this practice, assets under legal 
repossession processes are not recorded on the 
balance sheet.
	
	
(ix) 	 Write-offs
	
	
	
The Company reduces the gross carrying 
amount of a financial asset when the Company 
has no reasonable expectations of recovering a 
financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof. 
This is generally the case when the Company 
determines that the borrower does not have 
assets or sources of income that could generate 
sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts 
subjected to write-offs. Any subsequent 
recoveries against such loans are credited to the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
(x) 	 Determination of fair value
	
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date, regardless of whether 
that price is directly observable or estimated 
using another valuation technique. In estimating 
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the company 
takes into account the characteristics of the asset 
or liability if market participants would take 
those characteristics into account when pricing 
the asset or liability at the measurement date. 
The Financial assets and liabilities are presented 
in ascending order of their liquidity. Fair value 
for measurement and/or disclosure purposes 
in these financial statements is determined on 
such a basis, except for share-based payment 
transactions that are within the scope of Ind 
AS 102, leasing transactions that are within 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
209
the scope of Ind AS 17, and measurements that 
have some similarities to fair value but are not 
fair value, such as value in use in Ind AS 36.
	
	
	
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair 
value measurements are categorised into Level 
1, 2, or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs 
to the fair value measurements are observable 
and the significance of the inputs to the fair value 
measurement in its entirety, which are described 
as follows:
	
	
	
	
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) 
in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date;
	
	
	
	
Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted 
prices included within Level 1, that are 
observable for the asset or liability ,either 
directly or indirectly; and
	
	
	
	
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for 
the asset or liability.
	
	
	
Fair values are determined in whole or in part 
using a valuation model based on assumptions 
that are neither supported by prices from 
observable current market transactions in the 
same instrument nor are they based on available 
market data.
	
	
	
The Company recognises transfers between 
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of 
the reporting period during which the change 
has occurred. No such instances of transfers 
between levels of the fair value hierarchy were 
recorded during the reporting period.
	
	
	
Difference between transaction price and fair 
value at initial recognition
	
	
	
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial 
instrument at initial recognition is the transaction 
price (i.e. the fair value of the consideration 
given or received) unless the fair value of that 
instrument is evidenced by comparison with 
other observable current market transactions in 
the same instrument (i.e. without modification or 
repackaging) or based on a valuation technique 
whose variables include only data from 
observable markets. When such evidence exists, 
the Company recognises the difference between 
the transaction price and the fair value in profit 
or loss on initial recognition (i.e. on day one).
	
	
	
When the transaction price of the instrument 
differs from the fair value at origination and the 
fair value is based on a valuation technique using 
only inputs observable in market transactions, 
the Company recognises the difference between 
the transaction price and fair value in net gain 
on fair value changes. In those cases where 
fair value is based on models for which some 
of the inputs are not observable, the difference 
between the transaction price and the fair value 
is deferred and is only recognised in profit or loss 
when the inputs become observable, or when 
the instrument is derecognised.
5.3	 Revenue from operations
(i)	
Interest Income
	
Interest income is recognised by applying the Effective 
Interest Rate (EIR) to the gross carrying amount of financial 
assets measured through amortised cost method other than 
credit impaired assets. Interest income on credit impaired 
assets is recognised by applying the effective interest 
rate to the net amortised cost (net of ECL provision) of the 
financial asset. Interest on delayed payments by customers 
are treated to accrue only on realisation, due to uncertainty 
of realisation and are accounted accordingly.
	
Excess Interest spread on direct assignment of loan 
receivables is recognised upfront. On derecognition of the 
loan receivables in its entirety, the difference between the 
carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) 
and the consideration received (including any new asset 
obtained less any new liability assumed) shall be recognised 
upfront in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Penal charges are not accrued on Non-Gold portfolio, 
however, accrual of penal charges is being done in case of 
Gold Loan portfolio
	
The EIR in case of a financial asset is computed
	
a. 	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial 
asset to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset.
	
b.	
By considering all the contractual terms of the 
financial instrument in estimating the cash flows
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
210
	
c.	
Including all fees received between parties to the 
contract that are an integral part of the effective 
interest rate, transaction costs, and all other premiums 
or discounts.
	
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of the 
future cash flows is recognised in interest income with 
the corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount 
of the assets.
(ii)	
Dividend Income
	
Dividend income is recognised
	
a.	
When the right to receive the payment is established,
	
b.	
it is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the dividend will flow to the entity and
	
c.	
the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
(iii)	 Fees & Commission Income
	
Fees and commissions other than those which forms part 
of EIR are recognised when the Company satisfies the 
performance obligation, at fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable based on a five-step model as set 
out below:
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer: A contract is 
defined as an agreement between two or more parties that 
creates enforceable rights and obligations and sets out the 
criteria for every contract that must be met.
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in the contract: 
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a 
customer to transfer a good or service to the customer.
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price: The transaction 
price is the amount of consideration to which the Company 
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised 
goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts 
collected on behalf of third parties.
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance 
obligations in the contract: For a contract that has more 
than one performance obligation, the Company allocates 
the transaction price to each performance obligation in 
an amount that depicts the amount of consideration to 
which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for 
satisfying each performance obligation.
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the Company 
satisfies a performance obligation.
	
Processing fee which is not form part of effective interest 
rate has been recognised as and when it is accrue.
(iv)	 Net gain/(loss) on Fair value changes
	
Any differences between the fair values of financial assets 
classified as fair value through the profit or loss, held by 
the Company on the balance sheet date is recognised as 
an unrealised gain / loss. In cases there is a net gain in 
the aggregate, the same is recognised in “Net gains on fair 
value changes” under Revenue from operations and if there 
is a net loss the same is disclosed under “Expenses” in the 
statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on sale of financial 
instruments measured at FVTPL and debt instruments 
measured at FVOCI is recognised in net gain / loss on fair 
value changes. As at the reporting date the Company does 
not have any financial instruments measured at FVTPL and 
debt instruments measured at FVOCI.
	
However, net gain / loss on derecognition of financial 
instruments classified as amortised cost is presented 
separately under the respective head in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
(v)	
Recoveries from Financial Assets written off
	
The Company recognises income on recoveries of financial 
assets written off on realisation basis.
5.4	 Expenses
(i)	
Finance costs
	
Finance costs represents Interest expense recognised 
by applying the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) to the gross 
carrying amount of financial liabilities other than financial 
liabilities classified as FVTPL.
	
The EIR in case of a financial liability is computed
	
a.	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash payments through the expected life of the 
financial liability to the gross carrying amount of the 
amortised cost of a financial liability.
	
b.	
By considering all the contractual terms of the 
financial instrument in estimating the cash flows
	
c.	
Including all fees paid between parties to the contract 
that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
211
	
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of the 
future cash flows is recognised in interest income with 
the corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount 
of the assets.
	
	
Interest expense includes issue costs that are initially 
recognized as part of the carrying value of the financial 
liability and amortized over the expected life using 
the effective interest method. These include fees and 
commissions payable to advisers and other expenses 
such as external legal costs, Rating Fee etc., provided 
these are incremental costs that are directly related 
to the issue of a financial liability.
(ii)	
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Short term employee benefit
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months 
of rendering the service are classified as short-term 
employee benefits. These benefits include short term 
compensated absences such as paid annual leave. 
The undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits 
expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered 
by employees is recognised as an expense during the 
period. Benefits such as salaries and wages, etc. and the 
expected cost of the bonus/ex-gratia are recognised in the 
period in which the employee renders the related service.
	
Post-employment employee benefits
	
a)	
Defined contribution schemes
	
	
All the employees of the Company are entitled to receive 
benefits under the Provident Fund and Employees 
State Insurance scheme, defined contribution plans 
in which both the employee and the Company 
contribute monthly at a stipulated rate. The Company 
has no liability for future benefits other than its annual 
contribution and recognises such contributions as an 
expense in the period in which employee renders 
the related service. If the contribution payable to the 
scheme for service received before the Balance Sheet 
date exceeds the contribution already paid, the deficit 
payable to the scheme is recognised as a liability 
after deducting the contribution already paid. If the 
contribution already paid exceeds the contribution 
due for services received before the Balance Sheet 
date, then excess is recognised as an asset to the 
extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for example, 
a reduction in future payment or a cash refund.
	
b)	
Defined Benefit schemes
	
	
The Company provides for the gratuity, a defined 
benefit retirement plan covering all employees. 
The plan provides for lump sum payments to 
employees upon death while in employment or on 
separation from employment after serving for the 
stipulated years mentioned under ‘The Payment of 
Gratuity Act, 1972’. The present value of the obligation 
under such defined benefit plan is determined based 
on actuarial valuation, carried out by an independent 
actuary at each Balance Sheet date, using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method, which recognizes each 
period of service as giving rise to an additional unit of 
employee benefit entitlement and measures each unit 
separately to build up the final obligation.
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present value of the 
estimated future cash flows. The discount rates used 
for determining the present value of the obligation 
under defined benefit plan are based on the market 
yields on Government Securities as at the Balance 
Sheet date.
	
	
Net interest recognized in profit or loss is calculated 
by applying the discount rate used to measure the 
defined benefit obligation to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. The actual return on the plan assets 
above or below the discount rate is recognized as part 
of re-measurement of net defined liability or asset 
through other comprehensive income. An actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions that 
may differ from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the discount rate, 
attrition rate, future salary increases and mortality 
rates. Due to the complexities involved in the 
valuation and its long-term nature, these liabilities 
are highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. 
All assumptions are reviewed annually.
	
	
The Company fully contributes all ascertained 
liabilities to LIC without routing it through Trust bank 
account. Trustees administer contributions made to 
the trust and contributions are invested in a scheme of 
insurance with the IRDA approved Insurance Company
	
	
Re-measurement, comprising of actuarial gains and 
losses and the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability), are recognized immediately in the 
balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to 
retained earnings through OCI in the period in which 
they occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to 
profit and loss in subsequent periods.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
212
	
	
Other long-term employee benefits
	
	
Company’s liabilities towards compensated 
absences to employees are accrued on the basis 
of valuations, as at the Balance Sheet date, carried 
out by an independent actuary using Projected Unit 
Credit Method. Actuarial gains and losses comprise 
experience adjustments and the effects of changes in 
actuarial assumptions and are recognised immediately 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.The Company 
presents the Provision for compensated absences 
under provisions in the Balance Sheet.
	
	
The Company has formulated Employee Stock 
Option Schemes (ESOS) in accordance with the SEBI 
(Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock 
Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999. The grant date fair 
value of equity settled share based payment awards 
granted to employees is recognised as an employee 
expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over 
the period that the employees unconditionally become 
entitled to the awards. The amount recognised in 
employee benefits expenses/investment in subsidiary 
together with a corresponding increase in employee 
stock option outstanding account in other equity is 
based on the estimate of the number of awards for 
which the related service and non-market vesting 
conditions are expected to be met, such that the 
amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based 
on the number of awards that do meet the related 
service and non-market vesting conditions at the 
vesting date.
(iii)	 Other income and expenses
	
All Other income and expense are recognized in the period 
they occur.
(iv)	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The carrying amount of assets is reviewed at each balance 
sheet date if there is any indication of impairment based on 
internal/external factors. An impairment loss is recognized 
wherever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater 
of the assets, net selling price and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and risks specific to the asset.
	
In determining net selling price, recent market transactions 
are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. 
After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised 
carrying amount of the asset over its remaining useful life.
(v)	
Taxes
	
Current Tax
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior 
years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. The tax rates and 
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are 
enacted, or substantively enacted, by the reporting date in 
the countries where the Company operates and generates 
taxable income.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside 
profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items 
are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulations are 
subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where 
appropriate.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the 
related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred 
income tax liability is settled.
	
Deferred tax assets are only recognised for temporary 
differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits if it 
is probable that future taxable amounts will arise to utilise 
those temporary differences and losses. Deferred tax 
assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related 
tax benefit will be realised.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and 
liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax 
entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and 
assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities are 
realised simultaneously.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
213
	
Goods and services tax /value added taxes paid on 
acquisition of assets or on incurring expenses
	
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the goods and 
services tax/ value added taxes paid, except:
	
i. 	
When the tax incurred on a purchase of assets or 
services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, 
in which case, the tax paid is recognised as part of 
the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the 
expense item, as applicable.
	
ii.	
When receivables and payables are stated with the 
amount of tax included.
	
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or payable to, 
the taxation authority is included as part of receivables 
or payables in the balance sheet.
5.5	 Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
Functional and presentational currency
	
	
The standalone financial statements are presented in 
Indian Rupees which is also functional currency of the 
Company and the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Company operates.
	
(ii)	
Transactions and balances
	
	
Initial recognition:
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
	
	
Conversion:
	
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currency, which are outstanding as at the reporting 
date, are translated at the reporting date at the closing 
exchange rate and the resultant exchange differences 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
Non–monetary items that are measured at historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot 
exchange rates as at the date of recognition.
5.6	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents comprise the net amount of 
short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash (short-term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months or less) and are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value, cheques 
on hand and balances with banks. They are held for the 
purposes of meeting short-term cash commitments (rather 
than for investment or other purposes).
	
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and short- term deposits, 
as defined above.
5.7	 Property, Plant and equipment (PPE)
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are measured at 
historical cost of acquisition less accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment, (if any). The total cost of 
assets comprises its purchase price, freight, duties, taxes 
and any other incidental expenses directly attributable to 
bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary 
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended 
by the management. Changes in the expected useful life 
are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or 
methodology, as appropriate, and treated as changes in 
accounting estimates.
	
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of tangible 
asset are added to its gross value only if it increases the 
future benefits of the existing asset, beyond its previously 
assessed standards of performance and cost can be 
measured reliably. Other repairs and maintenance costs 
are expensed off as and when incurred.
	
Depreciation is calculated using the Straight Line Method 
(SLM) to write down the cost of property and equipment 
to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as 
specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except 
for Leasehold improvements which are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the period of lease or estimated 
period of useful life of such improvement, subject to a 
maximum period of 60 months. Leasehold improvements 
include all expenditure incurred on the leasehold premises 
that have future economic benefits. Land is not depreciated.
	
The estimated useful lives are, as follows:
Particulars
Useful life estimated by 
Company Computer
Computer
- End User equipment
3 years
- Server*
3 years
Furniture & Fixtures
- Safe and strong rooms
10 years
- Others*
3 - 5 years
Office Equipment
3 years
Electrical Fittings
3 years
Buildings
30 years
Vehicles
8 years
Plant & Equipment
15 years
Lease Hold Improvements
Rent Agreement Period
	
*The Company has estimated useful life which is different 
for Schedule II useful life’s based on management estimate.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
214
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation 
of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each 
financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
	
Property plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal 
or when no future economic benefits are expected from 
its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) 
is recognised in other income / expense in the statement 
of profit and loss in the year the asset is derecognised. 
The date of disposal of an item of property, plant and 
equipment is the date the recipient obtains control of that 
item in accordance with the requirements for determining 
when a performance obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115.
5.8	 Capital Work In Progress
	
PPE not ready for the intended use on the date of the 
Balance Sheet are disclosed as “capital work-in-progress” 
and carried at cost, comprising direct cost, related incidental 
expenses and attributable interest.
5.9	 Intangible assets
	
An intangible asset is recognised only when its cost can 
be measured reliably and it is probable that the expected 
future economic benefits that are attributable to it will flow 
to the Company.
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on 
initial recognition at cost. The cost of an intangible asset 
comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable 
expenditure on making the asset ready for its intended use 
and net of any trade discounts and rebates. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to 
be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life. 
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for 
an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at 
least at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected 
useful life, or the expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset, are accounted 
for by changing the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, which are then treated as changes in 
accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on 
intangible assets with finite lives is presented as a separate 
line item in the statement of profit and loss. Amortisation on 
assets acquired/sold during the year is recognised on a 
pro-rata basis to the Statement of Profit and Loss from / 
upto the date of acquisition/sale.
	
Amortisation is calculated using the straight–line method 
to write down the cost of intangible assets to their residual 
values over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets 
comprising of software are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over a period of 6 years, unless it has a shorter 
useful life.
	
The Company’s intangible assets consist of computer 
software with definite life.
	
Gains or losses from derecognition of intangible assets 
are measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the 
asset is derecognised.
5.10	Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the enterprise has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past events, 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, 
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation.
	
When the effect of the time value of money is material, the 
enterprise determines the level of provision by discounting 
the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate reflecting the 
current rates specific to the liability. The expense relating 
to any provision is presented in the statement of profit and 
loss net of any reimbursement.
5.11	 Contingent Assets and Liabilities
	
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past 
events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the 
occurrence or non occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the entity. 
The Company does not recognize or disclose contingent 
asset in the financial statements.
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events beyond the control of the Company or a 
present obligation that is not recognized because it is not 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in 
extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot 
be recognized because it cannot be measured reliably. 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
215
The Company does not recognize a contingent liability but 
discloses its existence in the financial statements.
5.12	Earnings Per Share
	
The Company reports basic and diluted earnings per 
share in accordance with Ind AS 33 on Earnings per share. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss 
for the year attributable to equity shareholders (after 
attributable taxes) by the weighted average number of 
equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, 
the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year are adjusted for the effects 
of all dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive potential 
equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning 
of the period, unless they have been issued at a later date. 
In computing the dilutive earnings per share, only potential 
equity shares that are dilutive and that either reduces the 
earnings per share or increases loss per share are included.
5.13	Segment Reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker (CODM).
	
The Board of Directors (BOD) of the Company assesses 
the financial performance and position of the Company, 
and makes strategic decisions. The BOD, which has been 
identified as being the chief operating decision maker. 
The Company is engaged in the business of i) Lending 
finance and ii) Fees & commission income. The said business 
are aggregated for the purpose of review of performance by 
CODM. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that the 
business of lending finance and fees & commission income 
to be the only reportable segment.
5.14	Leases
	
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the lease term 
as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with 
any option to extend or terminate the lease, if the use of 
such option is reasonably certain. The Company makes an 
assessment on the expected lease term on a lease-by-
lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably 
certain that any options to extend or terminate the contract 
will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Company 
considers factors such as any significant leasehold 
improvements undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of the lease and the importance 
of the underlying asset to Company’s operations taking 
into account the location of the underlying asset and the 
availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects 
the current economic circumstances.
	
The Company as a lessee
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist of 
leases for land and buildings. The Company assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of a 
contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess 
whether a contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset, the Company assesses whether: (i) 
the contract involves the use of an identified asset (ii) the 
Company has substantially all of the economic benefits 
from use of the asset through the period of the lease and 
(iii) the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in 
which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve 
months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. 
For these short-term and low value leases, the Company 
recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. 
ROU assets and lease liabilities includes these options 
when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over the 
shorter of the lease term and useful life of the underlying 
asset. Right of use assets are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. 
the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-
use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless 
the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
216
recoverable amount is determined for the Cash Generating 
Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at 
the present value of the future lease payments. The lease 
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit 
in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country of domicile 
of these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related right of use asset 
if the Company changes its assessment if whether it will 
exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately 
presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
5.15	Cash Flow Statement
	
Cash flows are reported under the ‘Indirect method’ as set 
out in Ind AS 7 on ‘Statement of Cash Flows, whereby net 
profit after tax is adjusted for the effects of transactions of 
non-cash nature, tax and any deferrals or accruals of past 
or future cash receipts or payments. The cash flows are 
prepared for the operating, investing and financing activities 
of the Company.
6	
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions
	
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
the Ind AS requires the management to make judgments, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities 
and the accompanying disclosure and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and future periods are affected. Although these estimates 
are based on the management’s best knowledge of current 
events and actions, uncertainty about these assumptions 
and estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or 
liabilities in future periods.
6.1	
Defined employee benefit assets and liabilities
	
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the 
present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the determination 
of the discount rate; future salary increases and mortality 
rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and 
its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions 
are reviewed annually.
6.2	 Recognition of Securitised assets and direct assignment 
transactions:
	
Pursuant to the regulatory guidance on Ind AS issued by 
RBI dated 13th March, 2020 to promote consistent Ind AS 
implementation among NBFCs, the Company has changed 
its policy on accounting for securitised assets and direct 
assignment transactions. The securitised assets which were 
hitherto, de-recognized in the books based on ‘True Sale 
Criteria’ prescribed by RBI, will be now re-recognised in the 
books along with interest income using effective interest 
rate as the company has not transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards in accordance with the provisions 
of Indian Accounting Standard 109 (Ind AS 109), ‘Financial 
Instruments’ . Proceeds received from securitisation will be 
recognised as Borrowings (other than debt securities) and 
Interest thereon will be recognised as Finance cost.
	
In respect of Direct Assignment transactions, assets 
continue to be derecognized in the books as it fulfils 
“True Sale Criteria” prescribed by RBI and has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards in accordance with 
the provisions of Indian Accounting Standard No.109 (Ind 
AS 109), ‘Financial Instruments’ and the gain on sale of 
assets arising from such direct assignment transactions, 
will be recognised at fair value of interest strip.
6.3	 Impairment of loans portfolio
	
The measurement of impairment losses across all categories 
of financial assets requires judgement, in particular, the 
estimation of the amount and timing of future cash flows 
and collateral values when determining impairment losses 
and the assessment of a significant increase in credit risk. 
These estimates are driven by a number of factors, changes 
in which can result in different levels of allowances.
	
It has been the Company’s policy to regularly review it’s ECL 
model in the context of actual loss experience and adjust 
when necessary.
	
The impairment loss on loans and advances is disclosed in 
more detail in Note 5.2(vii) Overview of ECL principles.
6.4	 Fair Value Measurement
	
When the fair values of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured 
based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is 
measured using various valuation techniques. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable markets where 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
217
possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgment 
is required in establishing fair values. Judgments include 
considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk 
and volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors 
could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments
6.5	 Leases
	
a.	
Determining the lease term of contracts with renewal 
and termination options – Company as lessee
	
	
The Company determines the lease term as the 
non-cancellable term of the lease, together with 
any periods covered by an option to extend the 
lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or 
any periods covered by an option to terminate the 
lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised. 
The Company applies judgement in evaluating 
whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to 
exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. 
That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an 
economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal 
or termination.
	
b.	
Estimating the incremental borrowing rate
	
	
The Company cannot readily determine the interest 
rate implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its 
incremental borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease 
liabilities. The IBR is the rate of interest that the 
Company would have to pay to for its borrowings.
6.6	 Contingent liabilities and provisions other than impairment 
of loan portfolio
	
Provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when 
it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow 
of funds resulting from past operations or events and 
the amount of cash outflow can be reliably estimated. 
The timing of recognition and quantification of the liability 
requires the application of judgement to existing facts and 
circumstances, which can be subject to change. The carrying 
amounts of provisions and liabilities are reviewed at each 
Balance sheet date and revised to take account of changing 
facts and circumstances.
7	
Recent Pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) notifies new standards 
or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time 
to time. For the year ended 31st March, 2025, MCA has 
notified Ind AS – 117 Insurance Contracts, amendments 
to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to sale and leaseback 
transactions  applicable to the Company w.e.f. 01st April, 
2024, amendment to Ind AS 21 - which pertains to the 
effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, to provide 
clarity on assessing currency exchangeability, estimating 
spot exchange rates, and improving disclosure requirements 
which is applicable w.e.f 1st April, 2025 onwards. 
The Company has reviewed the new pronouncements and 
based on its evaluation has determined that it does not have 
any significant impact in its financial statements.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
218
Note 8: Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Cash on hand
 1,787.49 
 1,155.38 
Balances with banks (Of the nature of cash and cash equivalents)
 9,798.42 
 4,312.52 
Others-
a)	
Foreign currency balances
 1.16 
 0.64 
b)	
Bank deposit with maturity of less than 3 months*
 16,308.59 
 9,825.32 
Total
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
*Short-term bank deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash 
requirements of the Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. These bank deposits includes its related 
accrued interest.
There is no restriction with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at end of the financial year 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
Note 9: Bank balance other than above
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Deposits with original maturity for more than 3 months.*
 2,209.55 
 1,860.47 
Earmarked Balances with Banks**
 40.38 
 213.17 
Total
 2,249.93 
 2,073.64 
* Includes: Cash collateral deposits  aggregating to `1,753.96 Mn(31st March, 2024:`1,688.59 Mn) towards bank facilities. The cash collateral deposits are 
provided as an additional security to the banks for extending approved bank facilities.
** These earmarked balances with Bank include balances pertaining to unpaid NCD trustee account, unpaid auction surplus deposit and unpaid dividend 
account.
Note 10: Loans
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Loans at Amortised Cost
i)	
Gold loan 
 260,236.97 
 217,666.63 
ii)	
Commercial Vehicle loan (CVD)
 43,561.64 
 38,349.47 
iii)	
Mortgage/Property loan 
 214.11 
 245.70 
iv)	
Onlending
 5,153.77 
 9,885.53 
v)	
Corporate Finance
 2.70 
 4.10 
vi)	
MSME and Allied Business
 27,733.72 
 26,559.83 
Total (A) - Gross
 336,902.89 
 292,711.29 
Less: (B) - Impairment loss allowance
 2,872.71 
 2,122.37 
Total ( C) = (A-B) - Net
 334,030.18 
 290,588.92 
i)	
Secured by tangible assets
 333,783.10 
 285,235.86 
ii)	
Unsecured
 3,119.79 
 7,475.43 
Total (D) - Gross
 336,902.89 
 292,711.29 
Less: (E) - Impairment loss allowance
 2,872.71 
 2,122.37 
Total (F) = (D-E) - Net
 334,030.18 
 290,588.92 
Loans Outside India
 - 
 - 
i)	
Public Sector
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Others
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
219
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Loans in India
i) 	
Public Sector
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Others
 336,902.89 
 292,711.29 
Total (G) - Gross
 336,902.89 
 292,711.29 
Less (H) - Impairment loss allowance
 2,872.71 
 2,122.37 
Total (I) = (G-H) - Net
 334,030.18 
 290,588.92 
Details of loans pledged as securities against borrowings have been appropriately disclosed in note 20
The following tables explain the changes in the loans and the corresponding impairment loss allowance between the beginning and 
the end of the Financial Year 2024-25:
Particulars
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total Loans
Total ECL
Loans
ECL
Loans
ECL
Loans
ECL
Opening
 283,884.94 
 1,305.19 
 2,358.61 
 77.90 
 6,467.74 
 739.29 
 292,711.29 
 2,122.37 
Transfer to Stage 1
 203.05 
 42.83 
 (135.29)
 (1.30)
 (67.76)
 (41.53)
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 2
 (4,529.27)
 (85.36)
 4,544.09 
 85.61 
 (14.82)
 (0.24)
 0.00 
 0.00 
Transfer to Stage 3
 (4,558.95)
 (871.87)
 (587.66)  (87.99)
 5,146.61 
 959.87 
 - 
 0.00 
Write off
 (183.58)
 - 
 (124.47)
 - 
 (266.41)
 - 
 (574.46)
 - 
Impact of changes in credit risk on 
account of stage movement
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes in opening credit 
exposures (repayment net of 
additional disbursement)
(231,842.98)
 (360.38)  (1,253.54)  (18.88)
 (3,035.64)
 (407.18)
 (236,132.16)
 (786.46)
New Credit Exposures during the 
year, net of repayments
 276,086.83  1,373.53 
 2,458.16 
 29.95 
 2,353.23 
 133.31  280,898.22  1,536.80 
Closing
 319,060.04  1,403.93  7,259.89 
 85.27  10,582.95 1,383.52 336,902.89  2,872.71 
The following tables explain the changes in the loans and the corresponding impairment loss allowance between the beginning and 
the end of the Financial Year 2023-24:
Particulars
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total Loans
Total ECL
Loans
ECL
Loans
ECL
Loans
ECL
Opening
 234,456.03  1,295.82 
 4,770.00 
 66.38 
 3,298.92 
 429.37  242,524.96 
 1,791.57 
Transfer to Stage 1
 109.78 
 0.96 
 (95.41)
 (0.85)
 (14.37)
 (0.11)
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 2
 (1,272.74)
 (32.21)
 1,283.91 
 32.75 
 (11.17)
 (0.54)
 (0.00)
 - 
Transfer to Stage 3
 (1,540.29)
 (216.33)
 (222.64) (35.05)
 1,762.93 
 251.38 
 - 
 - 
Write off
 (172.69)
 - 
 (43.18)
 - 
 (87.70)
 - 
 (303.58)
 - 
Impact of changes in credit risk on 
account of stage movement
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes in opening credit 
exposures (repayment net of 
additional disbursement)
(209,407.75)
 (993.82) (4,230.68)  (23.63)  (2,006.26)  (202.50)  (215,644.69)  (1,219.95)
New Credit Exposures during the 
year, net of repayments
 261,712.60 
 1,250.77 
 896.62  38.30 
 3,525.39 
 261.69 
 266,134.60  1,550.76 
Closing
283,884.94  1,305.19 
 2,358.61 
 77.90 
 6,467.74 
 739.29 
 292,711.29  2,122.37 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
220
 Note 11: Investments
Particulars
Amortised 
Cost
At Fair value 
Through profit 
or loss
Others 
(Measured 
at Cost)
Total
As at 31st March, 2025
i)	
Investment in Governement Securities (Quoted)
 3,063.48 
 - 
 - 
 3,063.48 
ii)	
Investement in Equity instruments -  (Quoted)
 - 
 46.57 
 - 
 46.57 
iv)	
Investment in subsidiaries (Unquoted)*
	
a)	
Wholly owned subsidiary 
 - 
 - 
 2,599.01 
 2,599.01 
	
b)	
Other subsidiary
 1,647.14 
 - 
 10,862.31 
 12,509.46 
Total Gross (A)
 4,710.63 
 46.57 
 13,461.33 
 18,218.53 
i)	
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Investments in India
 4,710.63 
 46.57 
 13,461.33 
 18,218.53 
Total Gross (B)
 4,710.63 
 46.57 
 13,461.33 
 18,218.53 
Less : Allowance for impairment loss (C)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total - Net (D) = (A) -(C)
 4,710.63 
 46.57 
 13,461.33 
 18,218.53 
Particulars
Amortised 
Cost
At Fair value 
Through profit 
or loss
Others 
(Measured 
at Cost)
Total
As at 31st March, 2024
i)	
Investment in Governement Securities (Quoted)
 3,070.49 
 - 
 - 
 3,070.49 
ii)	
Equity instruments in others (Quoted)
 - 
 0.36 
 - 
 0.36 
iii)	
Equity instruments in subsidiaries (Unquoted)*
	
a)	
Wholly owned subsidiary 
 - 
 - 
 2,099.01 
 2,099.01 
	
b)	
Other subsidiary
 1,648.41 
 - 
 10,837.44 
 12,485.84 
Total Gross (A)
 4,718.90 
 0.36 
 12,936.44 
 17,655.71 
i)	
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Investments in India
 4,718.90 
 0.36 
 12,936.44 
 17,655.71 
Total Gross (B)
 4,718.90 
 0.36 
 12,936.44 
 17,655.71 
Less : Allowance for impairment loss (C)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total - Net (D) = (A) -(C)
 4,718.90 
 0.36 
 12,936.44 
 17,655.71 
*The Company has advanced  ` 0.37 Mn to MACOM (31st March, 2024- `0.37 Mn) towards proposed investment in equity shares. As at the balance sheet 
date, the shares are yet to be allotted. The management has evaluated and concluded that there is no impairment in the carrying value of such advance. .
Note 12: Other financial assets
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Security deposits*
 1,137.28 
 1,004.91 
EIS Receivable on Direct Assignments**
 1,063.72 
 706.09 
Commission receivable
 - 
 3.21 
Funds-in-transit
 1,870.51 
 814.83 
Gold investment***
 37.65 
 41.21 
Others****
 722.29 
 340.59 
Total
 4,831.45 
 2,910.84 
*Employee security deposits aggregating to `579.45 Mn (31st March, 2024: `476.27Mn).Deposits aggregating to `36.76Mn(31st March, 2024: `36.20Mn) 
towards security deposit to various authorities.
**Under Ind AS, with respect to assignment deals, the Company has created an Excess Interest Spread(EIS) receivable, with the corresponding credit to 
the statement of Profit and Loss for the year, which has been computed by discounting EIS to the present value on each balance sheet date.
***Gold investments include gold ornaments amounting to ` 37.65 Mn(31st March, 2024-`41.21 Mn) which have been seized during the course of recovery 
proceedings under gold loan defaults. These are pending disposal in accordance with the applicable legal procedures. The appropriate provision has been 
recognised wherever required
****Includes receivable portion from MACOM to the extend of `148.76 Mn for the year ended 31st March, 2025.(31st March, 2024- Nil)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
221
Note 13: Current tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Advance tax and tax deducted at source [net of provisions for Income tax `47,417.61 
Mn(31st March, 2024 ` 41,287.41 Mn)]
 661.06 
 524.94 
Total
 661.06 
 524.94 
Note 14: Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE)
Particulars
 Land-
Freehold 
Buildings* 
 Office 
equipment 
 Electrical 
Installation 
 Computer 
Equipment 
 Furniture 
and 
Fixtures 
 Leasehold 
Improvement 
 Vehicles 
 Plant and 
Equipment 
 Total** 
 Capital 
Work-ln-
Progress 
(CWIP) 
Gross Block - at Cost
As at 1st April, 2023
 502.56 
 1,455.32 
 176.57 
 142.56 
 1,157.56 
 2,452.83 
 600.67 
 49.73 
 41.61  6,579.43 
 160.11 
Additions
 35.39 
 8.66 
 95.12 
 13.66 
 308.98 
 257.94 
 108.14 
 5.56 
 - 
 833.45 
 173.35 
Disposals
 3.15 
 0.90 
 83.91 
 5.01 
 1.87 
 3.93 
 1.95 
 100.71 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 537.95 
 1,463.98 
 268.54 
 155.32 
 1,382.63 
 2,705.76 
 706.94 
 51.36 
 39.66 
 7,312.13 
 333.46 
Additions
 112.74 
 267.39 
 121.96 
 78.50 
 265.70 
 413.97 
 125.74 
 53.33 
 11.68 
 1,451.02 
 - 
Disposals
 0.28 
 0.20 
 144.62 
 1.60 
 0.07 
 5.37 
 152.14 
 218.76 
As at 31st March, 2025
 650.69 
 1,731.38 
 390.23 
 233.63 
 1,503.71 
 3,118.12 
 832.59 
 99.32 
 51.32  8,610.99 
 114.70 
Accumulated 
Depreciation:
As at 1st April, 2023
 - 
 245.06 
 113.58 
 129.05 
 544.27 
 1,378.09 
 540.46 
 29.98 
 21.30  3,001.79 
 - 
Disposals
 2.84 
 0.90 
 83.60 
 5.01 
 1.87 
 3.93 
 1.41 
 99.55 
 - 
Depreciation charge for 
the year
 50.40 
 47.31 
 8.98 
 333.90 
 325.77 
 35.35 
 7.02 
 3.88 
 812.60 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 - 
 295.46 
 158.05 
 137.13 
 794.57 
 1,698.85 
 573.94 
 33.07 
 23.77  3,714.84 
 - 
Disposals
 0.22 
 0.20 
 144.63 
 1.57 
 0.07 
 2.47 
 149.17 
 - 
Depreciation charge for 
the year
 55.30 
 79.68 
 23.35 
 350.73 
 355.59 
 72.78 
 8.69 
 4.03 
 950.15 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 - 
 350.76 
 237.52 
 160.27 
 1,000.67 
 2,052.87 
 646.64 
 39.30 
 27.80  4,515.83 
 - 
Carrying Amount
As at 31st March, 2024
 537.95 
 1,168.52 
 110.50 
 18.20 
 588.06 
 1,006.90 
 133.00 
 18.29 
 15.89 
 3,597.31 
 333.46 
As at 31st March, 2025
 650.70 
 1,380.62 
 152.70 
 73.35 
 503.04 
 1,065.25 
 185.97 
 60.03 
 23.54  4,095.21 
 114.70 
No revaluation of any class of asset is carried out during the year.
Title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company.
*Details of building pledged against borrowings is presented in Note 20.
**No PPE pledged as security.
Capital Work In Progress (CWIP) aging schedule for the year ended 31st March, 2025
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 2.10 
 78.93 
 33.66 
 114.70 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Capital Work In Progress(CWIP) aging schedule for the year ended 31st March, 2024
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 26.86 
 1.74 
 102.52 
 202.34 
 333.46 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
222
Note 15: Other intangible assets
Particulars
Computer Software
Gross Block - at Cost
As at 1st April, 2023
 399.14 
Additions
 29.29 
Disposals
 1.87 
As at 31st March, 2024
 426.56 
Additions
 120.22 
Disposals
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 546.78 
Accumulated amortisation:
As at 1st April, 2023
 260.66 
Disposals
 1.77 
Amortisation charge for the year
 60.41 
As at 31st March, 2024
 319.30 
Disposals
 - 
Amortisation charge for the year
 53.44 
As at 31st March, 2025
 372.74 
Carrying Amount:
As at 31st March, 2024
 107.27 
As at 31st March, 2025
 174.04 
No revaluation of any class of asset is carried out during the year.
Note 16: Other non-financial assets
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Capital advances
 107.67 
 30.10 
Prepaid Expenses
 150.52 
 167.56 
Goods and Service Tax Credit (Input)
 302.59 
 240.60 
Other Non Financial assets 
 32.89 
 28.49 
Total
 593.67 
 466.75 
Note 17: Derivative financial instruments
The company enters in to derivatives for risk management purpose which includes hedges that either meet the hedge accouting 
requirements or hedges that are economic hedges. The Company holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency 
forward and cross currency interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates on foreign currency exposures. 
These derivative financial instruments are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs 
that are directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace.
The below table shows the fair values of derivative financial instruments recorded as asset and liabilities together with notional 
amounts held by the Company:
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
A)	
Derivatives designated as Cash flow Hedges:
	
Forward Contracts
192.65 
8.33 
	
Cross Currency interest rate Swaps
108.53 
(118.55)
	
Sub total (A)
301.17 
(110.22)
B)	
Other Derivatives
	
Cross Currency interest rate Swaps
 - 
 - 
	
Sub total (B)
 - 
 - 
	
Total derivative financial instruments (A) + (B)
301.17 
(110.22)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
223
Note 17.1 Hedging activities and derivatives
The Company is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations. The primary risks managed using derivative 
instruments are foreign currency risk.
The Company’s risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk are explained in Note 45.
Note 17.2 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments
The company is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from its fixed rate foreign currency denominated bond amounting to USD 
300 million. Interest on the borrowing is payable at 7.37 % p.a. at half yearly intervals, and the principal amount is repayable in 
May 2028. The Company economically hedged the foreign currency risk arising from the bond with Forward Rate Agreement of 
equivalent amount.
The company is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from its fixed rate foreign currency External Commercial Borrowing amounting 
to USD 297 million. Interest on the borrowing is payable at 7-8% p.a. and the principal amount is repayable on various due dates. 
The Company economically hedged the foreign currency risk arising from the loan with Cross Currency Interest Rate swaps of 
equivalent amount. The Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps converts the cash outflows of the foreign currency fixed rate borrowing 
of USD 297 million to cash outflows in Indian Rupees with a notional amount of ` 24,916.49  Million
The company is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from its fixed rate foreign currency borrowing amounting to  Nil ( March 2024 
USD 43.85 million). Interest on the borrowing is payable at 8.85 % p.a. and the principal amount is repayable in August 2024. 
The Company economically hedged the foreign currency risk arising from the loan with Cross Currency Interest Rate swaps of 
equivalent amount. The Cross Currency Interest Rate Forward converts the cash outflows of the foreign currency fixed rate borrowing 
of USD 43.85 million to cash outflows in Indian Rupees with a notional amount of Nil (March 2024 `3,636 Million)
There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as the terms of the forward currency contract 
match that of the foreign currency borrowing (notional amount, principal repayment date etc.). The company has established a hedge 
ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying risk of the forward currency contract are identical to the hedged risk 
components. For the purpose of calculating hedge effectiveness, the company uses a qualitative features to determine the hedge 
effectiveness.
The reconciliation of cash flow hedge reserve for the years ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 are as follows:
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Cash flow hedge reserve as at beginning of the year
(89.74)
(3.93)
Gain/ (loss) recognised in other comprehensive income during the year
39.39 
(114.69)
Less: Tax impact on the above
 (9.91)
 28.88 
Amount reclassified to Profit/ Loss account
 - 
 - 
Total
(60.27)
(89.74)
Note 18: Trade payables
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
a)	
Trade payables
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 2.23 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 1,003.91 
 1,064.02 
Total
 1,003.91 
 1,066.25 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
224
Note 18(i) Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
The principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown separately) 
remaining unpaid to any supplier at the end of each accounting year.
 - 
 2.23 
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along with the amount of the 
payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting 
year
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting 
year
 - 
 - 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance of a deductible expenditure under 
section 23 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 2.23 
Note 18(ii)Trade payable aging schedule (Disclosure under schedule III of Companies Act,2013) As at 31st March 
2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
i)	
MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
others
 330.00 
 121.02 
 19.67 
 81.33 
 552.02 
iii)	
Disputed dues- MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Disputed dues- others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Unbilled-MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	 Unbilled-Others
 451.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 451.89 
Total
 781.89 
 121.02 
 19.67 
 81.33 
 1,003.91 
Note 18(ii)Trade payable aging schedule (Disclosure under schedule III of Companies Act,2013) As at 31st March, 
2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
i)	
MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
others
 398.47 
 37.23 
 40.64 
 101.25 
 577.59 
iii)	
Disputed dues- MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Disputed dues- others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Unbilled-MSME
 2.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.23 
(vi)	 Unbilled-Others
 463.13 
 10.29 
 4.48 
 8.53 
 486.43 
Total
 863.83 
 47.52 
 45.12 
 109.78 
 1,066.25 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
225
Note 19: Debt securities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost
Unsecured :
Commercial Papers (unsecured)
 2,941.43 
 8,357.10 
Secured :
US Dollar Bonds(Secured)
 26,240.11 
 - 
Privately placed redeemable non-convertible debentures (Secured)
 31,262.85 
 34,970.79 
Others  - Non-convertible Debentures - Public issue (Secured)
 1,110.97 
 1,011.92 
Total  (A)
 61,555.37 
 44,339.81 
Debt securities in India
 35,315.25 
 44,339.81 
Debt securities outside India
 26,240.11 
 - 
Total (B)
 61,555.37 
 44,339.81 
Exclude unpaid (Unclaimed) matured debentures shown as a part of the other financial liabilities(Refer Note.22)
Includes EIR impact of transaction cost, premium amount on issue of NCD
US Dollar Bonds carry interest rates of 7.37% p.a (31st March, 2025) and their tenure is for 4 years (31st March, 2024 : Nil).
Nature of Security
Debentures are secured by a floating charge on the book debts of the Company on gold and other unencumbered assets. 
The Company shall maintain 100% security cover on the outstanding balance of debenture with accrued interest any time. 
Debentures are offered for a period of 1 year to 10 years.
US Dollar Bonds are secured by way of floating charge on the book debts of the Company on gold and other unencumbered 
assets.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
226
Note 19: Debt securities (Contd…..)
Details of redeemable non-convertible debentures
Sr. 
No.
Private Placement/ 
Public issue
Date of 
allotment
Date of 
redemption
 Nominal 
value per 
debenture 
Total 
number of 
debentures
Rate of 
interest p.a.
Face value
As at 
31st March, 
2025 
As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Secured/ 
Unsecured
Terms of 
redemption
Listed/ 
Unlisted
1
Public Issue
29-Nov-18
29-Nov-25
 1,000 
 397,723 Zero Coupon
 397.72 
 397.72 
 397.72 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
2
Public Issue
6-Mar-19
5-May-26
 1,000 
 204,779 
Cumulative
 204.78 
 204.78 
 204.78 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
3
Public Issue
19-Dec-18
19-Dec-25
 1,000 
 13,265 
 Cumulative 
 13.27 
 13.27 
 13.27 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
4
Private Placement
9-Jul-20
9-Jul-30
 1,000,000 
 250 
9.50%
 250.00 
 250.00 
 250.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
5
Private Placement
14-Aug-20
9-Jul-30
 1,000,000 
 250 
9.50%
 250.00 
 250.00 
 250.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
6
Private Placement
14-Aug-20
9-Jul-30
 1,000,000 
 400 
9.50%
 400.00 
 400.00 
 400.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
7
Private Placement
14-Aug-20
9-Jul-30
 1,000,000 
 350 
9.50%
 350.00 
 350.00 
 350.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
8
Private Placement
28-Jan-21
28-Jan-26
 1,000,000 
 1,500 
8.57%
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
9
Private Placement
28-Jan-21
28-Jan-27
 1,000,000 
 1,500 
8.57%
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
10
Private Placement
28-Jan-21
28-Jan-28
 1,000,000 
 3,000 
8.57%
 3,000.00 
 3,000.00 
 3,000.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
11
Private Placement
30-Dec-21
30-Dec-24
 1,000,000 
 2,500 
6.95%
 2,500.0 
 - 
 2,500.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
12
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Apr-24
 1,000,000 
 963 
8.35%
 962.5 
 - 
 962.50 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
13
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Jul-24
 1,000,000 
 963 
8.35%
 962.5 
 - 
 962.50 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
14
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Oct-24
 1,000,000 
 963 
8.35%
 962.5 
 - 
 962.50 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
15
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Jan-25
 1,000,000 
 963 
8.35%
 962.5 
 - 
 962.50 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
16
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Apr-25
 1,000,000 
 963 
8.35%
 962.5 
 962.50 
 962.50 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
17
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Jul-25
 1,000,000 
 963 
8.35%
 962.5 
 962.50 
 962.50 
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
18
Private Placement
13-Mar-23
13-Mar-31
 100,000 
 36,666 
9.22%
 3,666.6 
 3,666.63 
 3,666.63 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
19
Private Placement
13-Mar-23
13-Mar-32
 100,000 
 36,666 
9.22%
 3,666.6 
 3,666.63 
 3,666.63 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
20
Private Placement
13-Mar-23
13-Mar-33
 100,000 
 36,667 
9.22%
 3,666.7 
 3,666.74 
 3,666.74 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
21
Private Placement
6-Oct-23
29-Sep-25
 100,000 
 40,000 
8.80%
 4,000.0 
 4,000.00 
 4,000.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
22
Private Placement
6-Oct-23
28-Mar-25
 100,000 
 20,000 
8.65%
 2,000.0 
 - 
 2,000.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
23
Private Placement
5-Mar-24
5-Mar-26
 100,000 
 20,000 
8.80%
 2,000.0 
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
24
Private Placement
28-Mar-24
28-Mar-34
 100,000 
 2,500 
8.60%
 250.0 
 250.00 
 250.00 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
25
Private Placement
19-Aug-24
19-Aug-26
 100,000 
 45,000 
9.10%
 4,500.0 
 4,500.00 
 - 
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
Total amount
 31,540.77 
 35,390.77 
Effective Interest Rate Adjustment
(384.71)
(461.89)
Interest Accrued but not due
1217.77 
1053.83 
Net Amount
 32,373.82 
 35,982.71 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
227
Note 20: Borrowings (other than debt securities)
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost:
Term Loan*
	
Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
 108,771.59 
 88,029.23 
	
Foreign currency term loan from banks (secured)
 25,424.86 
 12,070.31 
	
Indian rupee loan from other parties (secured)
 2,360.92 
 3,560.85 
Securitization Loan
 52.81 
 462.96 
Loans repayable on demand
	
Cash credit / overdraft facilities from banks (secured)
 124.25 
 2,015.05 
	
Working capital demand loan from banks (secured)
 72,169.16 
 74,190.12 
Total 
 208,903.60 
 180,328.51 
Borrowings in India**
 208,903.60 
 180,328.51 
Borrowings outside India
 - 
 - 
Total
 208,903.60 
 180,328.51 
Includes EIR impact of transaction cost, premium amount on issue of NCD
*Term Loans were fully used for the purpose for which the same were obtained.
**Includes foreign currency loan borrowed from SBI Bank.
The Company has not defaulted in repayment of principal and interest during the year ended as at the balance sheet date 31st March, 
2025 and 31st March, 2024
Term loan from bank:
Indian rupee loan from banks (secured):  These are secured by an exclusive charge by way of hypothecation of book debts pertaining 
to loans granted against gold and margin/cash collateral as per the agreement.
Foreign currency Term Loan /ECB from Banks (secured):
1)	
Foreign currency loan: Nil as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 `3636.30 Million) which carries interest @ 6 month SOFAR 
plus 120 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 17th March, 2022.
2)	
Foreign currency loan: 1. `3744.00 million(ECB) as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 `4160.00 million(ECB)) which 
carries interest @ 6 month SOFAR plus 225 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 
25th October, 2023.
3)	
Foreign currency loan: 1. `4157.00 million(ECB) as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 `4157.00 million(ECB)) which carries 
interest @ 6 month SOFAR plus 235 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 24th January, 
2024. The loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold 
loans & advances of the Company.
4)	
Foreign currency loan: `4178.00 million(ECB) as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 6 
month SOFAR plus 215 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 24th June, 2024. The loans 
are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances 
of the Company.
5)	
Foreign currency loan: `8,380.00 million(ECB) as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 
6 month SOFAR plus 195 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 30th September, 2024. 
The loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
228
6)	
Foreign currency loan: . `1,983.40 million(ECB) as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 
6 month SOFAR plus 175 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 19th November, 2024. 
The loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company.
7)	
Foreign currency loan: `2,474.10 million(ECB) as at 31st March, 2025 ( 31st March, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 6 
month SOFAR plus 210 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., 31st March, 2024. The loans 
are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances 
of the Company.
Term loan from other parties (secured):
Third party rupee term loan is secured where Interest payments are made monthly at 8.70 % - 8.90% pa. The loans is secured against 
the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances of the Company as per 
the agreement.
Loans repayable on demand
Cash credit / Overdraft facilities from banks (secured):
These loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company as per the agreement. 
Working Capital demand loan from banks (secured):
These loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company as per the agreement. 
A)	
Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
	
As at 31st March, 2025
	
Terms of repayment
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
Amount
Above 2 year
6.79-9.40%
 27,007.51 
Due within 1-2 years 
6.79-9.40%
 30,623.91 
Due within 1 year
6.79-9.40%
 51,223.56 
Total 
 108,854.98 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 (102.83)
Interest Accrued but not due
 19.44 
Net Amount
 108,771.59 
	
As at 31st March, 2024
	
Terms of repayment
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
Amount
Above 2 year
6.50 - 9.75%
 57,598.85 
Due within 1-2 years 
6.50 - 9.75%
 25,317.20 
Due within 1 year
6.50 - 9.75%
 5,200.05 
Total 
 88,116.10 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 (99.30)
Interest Accrued but not due
 12.43 
Net Amount
 88,029.23 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
229
B)	
Indian rupee loan from others  (Secured)
	
As at 31st March, 2025
	
Terms of repayment 
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
Amount
Above 2 year
  8.70 - 8.90%
 666.67 
Due within 1-2 years 
  8.70 - 8.90%
 837.50 
Due within One year 
  8.70 - 8.90%
 850.00 
Total 
 2,354.17 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 (2.46)
Interest Accrued but not due
 9.22 
Net Amount
 2,360.92 
	
As at 31st March, 2024
	
Terms of repayment  
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
Amount
Above 2 year
  6.75 -10.75%
 3,097.50 
Due within 1-2 years 
  6.75 -10.75%
 416.66 
Due within One year 
 - 
Total 
 3,514.16 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 (1.80)
Interest Accrued but not due
 48.48 
Net Amount
 3,560.85 
Note 21: Subordinated liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost:
Subordinated debt from banks
 - 
 - 
Subordinated bonds from others(Unsecured)
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
Subordinate liabilities in India
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
There are no subordinate liabilities as on 31st March, 2025 (31st March, 2024: Nil)
Note 22: Other financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Investor Education and Protection Fund shall be credited by following amounts*
-	
Unclaimed matured non-convertible debenture
 13.96 
 16.03 
-	
Unclaimed dividend
 27.25 
 25.73 
-	
Unclaimed matured subordinate bonds and interest accrued thereon
 5.39 
 5.79 
Securitisation payable on Direct Assignement
 632.46 
 455.86 
Security deposits
 687.27 
 604.71 
Auction surplus refundable
 29.41 
 162.16 
Employee related payables
 1,070.13 
 1,055.90 
Others**
58.09
 214.84 
Total
2523.94
 2,541.02 
* Includes interest on unpaid (Unclaimed) debentures
** Includes DSA commission payable of `38.94 Mn (31st March, 2025 `65.94 Mn)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
230
Note 23: Provisions
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
a)	
Provision for Employee benefits 
	
 -	
Gratuity 
 200.60 
 161.26 
 	
-	
Provision for compensated absences
 257.01 
 222.32 
b)	
Others   
	
-	
Loan commitments 
 3.76 
 0.78 
	
-	
Provision for other assets*
 37.66 
 41.21 
	
-	
Litigation
 124.53 
 147.50 
Total
 623.57 
 573.07 
*The Company has recognised provision amounting to `37.66 Mn (31st March, 2024 - ` 41.21 Mn) towards assets which are doubtful of recovery. The 
provision is based on management estimates and past recovery trends.
Movement of provisions other than employee benefits during the year
The movement in provisions during 2024-25 and 2023-24 is, as follows:
Particulars
Litigation
Other Assets
Total
At 31st March, 2023
 131.09 
 63.19 
 194.28 
Provided /(reversed) during the year
 16.41 
 (21.98)
 (5.57)
Utilised
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unwind of discount
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 147.50 
 41.21 
 188.71 
Provided /(reversed) during the year
 (22.97)
 (3.55)
 (26.52)
Utilised
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unwind of discount
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 124.53 
 37.66 
 162.20 
*Litigation:
Litigation provisions arise out of current or potential claims or pursuits alleging non-compliance with contractual or other legal or regulatory responsibilities, 
which have resulted or may arise in claims from customers, counterparties or other parties in civil litigations. 
Loan commitments 
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation to undisbursed loans is 
as follows:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount opening 
balance
 4,000.00 
 - 
 -  4,000.00 2,700.00 
 - 
 - 2,700.00 
New assets originated or purchased
 2,730.07 
 - 
 - 
 2,730.07  1,300.00 
 - 
 -  1,300.00 
Assets derecognised or repaid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes to contractual cash flows 
due to modifications not resulting in 
derecognition
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gross carrying amount closing 
balance
 6,730.07 
 - 
 -  6,730.07 4,000.00 
 - 
 - 4,000.00 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
231
Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening balance
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 0.78 
 0.53 
 - 
 - 
 0.53 
New assets originated or purchased
2.98 
 - 
 - 
2.98 
0.24 
 - 
 - 
0.24 
Assets derecognised or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Impact on year end ECL of exposures 
transferred between stages during 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes to contractual cash flows 
due to modifications not resulting in 
derecognition
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ECL allowance - closing balance
 3.76 
 - 
 - 
 3.76 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 0.78 
Note 24: Other Non-financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Statutory dues payable
 298.83 
 264.91 
Others
 281.97 
 874.99 
Total
 580.80 
 1,139.90 
Note 25: Equity share capital
The reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the period
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Authorised 
980,000,000 (31st March, 2024: 980,000,000) equity shares of ` 2/- each
 1,960.00 
 1,960.00 
400,000 (31st March, 2024: 400,000) preference shares of ` 100/- each
 40.00 
 40.00 
 Total Authorised 
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Issued and Subscribed Share Capital
846,434,729 (31st March, 2024: 846,434,729) equity shares of ` 2/- each
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
Fully paid up
846,434,729 (31st March, 2024: 846,434,729) equity shares of ` 2/- each fully paid up
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
Total Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
a)	
Reconciliation of the number of shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
No. of Shares
` in Millions
As at 1st April, 2023
 846,394,729 
 1,692.79 
Issued during the year - ESOP (refer note 37)
 40,000 
 0.08 
As at 31st March, 2024
 846,434,729 
 1,692.87 
Issued during the year - ESOP (refer note 37)
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 846,434,729 
 1,692.87 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
232
b)	
Terms and  rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to 
one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors 
is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. During the year ended 31st March, 2025, 
the amount of per share dividend recognized as distributions to equity shareholders was ` 4/- per share  (31st March, 2024: 
` 3.30/- per share)
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the 
Company, after  distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares 
held by the shareholders.
c)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
No. Of Shares
% holding in 
the class
No. Of Shares
% holding in 
the class
Mr. V.P. Nandakumar
 245,904,221 
29.05
 245,454,221 
29.00
Ms. Sushama Nandakumar
 48,001,078 
5.67
 48,001,078 
5.67
Smallcap World Fund, Inc
 51,893,302 
6.13
 - 
0.00
	
As per the records of the Company, including its register of shareholders / members and other declarations received from 
shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownership of shares.
d)	
Shareholding and change in shareholding percentages of promoters
Promoter* 
Details of shares as at  
31-03-2025
Details of shares as at  
31-03-2024
% change during 
the year**
No of shares
% of total share
No of shares
% of total share
V.P.Nandakumar
 245,904,221 
29.05%
 245,454,221 
29.00%
0.18%
Sooraj Nandan
 3,674 
0.00%
 3,674 
0.00%
0.00%
Sushama Nandakumar
 48,001,078 
5.67%
 48,001,078 
5.67%
0.00%
Suhas Nandan
 17,051 
0.00%
 17,051 
0.00%
0.00%
Jyoti Prasannan
 4,474,990 
0.53%
 4,474,990 
0.53%
0.00%
	
*Promoter means promoter as defined as per Companies Act,2013
	
**Percentage change shall be computed with respect to the number at the beginning of the year
e)	
Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding 
the reporting date:
	
The Company has issued  1,441,604 equity shares (31st March, 2024: 3,624,872) during the period of five years immediately 
preceding the reporting date on exercise of options granted under the employee stock option plan (ESOP) wherein part 
consideration was received in the form of employee services.
	
For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock option plan(ESOP) of the Company, refer note 37
f)	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company complies with externally 
imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and 
to maximise shareholder value. No changes have been made to the objectives, policies and processes from the previous years. 
However, they are under constant review by the Board.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
233
Note 26: Other equity
Securities premium 
As at 1st April, 2023
 14,108.75 
Add: Additions on ESOPs exercised
 9.37 
As at 31st March, 2024
 14,118.12 
Add: Additions on ESOPs exercised
 - 
Less: Share Issue Expenses
 (8.83)
As at 31st March, 2025
 14,109.29 
Share option outstanding account
As at 1st April, 2023
 137.83 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 (137.83)
As at 31st March, 2024
 - 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 - 
Statutory reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934
As at 1st April, 2023
 19,709.66 
Add: Transfer from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 3,315.55 
As at 31st March, 2024
 23,025.21 
Add: Transfer from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 3,566.53 
As at 31st March, 2025
 26,591.74 
Impairment Reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 439.93 
Add/(Less): Amount transferred from /(to) surplus in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 439.93 
Add/(Less): Amount transferred from /(to) surplus in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 439.93 
General reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 3,627.02 
Add: Transfer from Retained Earnings
 133.31 
As at 31st March, 2024
 3,760.33 
Add: Transfer from Retained Earnings
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 3,760.33 
Hedging reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 5.41 
Add/(Less): Effect of foreign exchange rate variations in Hedging instruments
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 5.41 
Add/(Less): Effect of foreign exchange rate variations in Hedging instruments
 - 
Less: Transfer to Retained Earnings
 5.41 
As at 31st March, 2025
 (0.00)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
234
Retained earnings
As at 1st April, 2023
 50,183.14 
Add: Profit for the year
 16,577.75 
Less: Appropriations
Transfer (to)/from debenture redemption reserve
 - 
Interim dividend on equity shares including tax thereon
 (2,793.18)
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 (3,315.55)
Transfer to Impairment reserve
 - 
Transfer from Share option outstanding account
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 60,652.17 
Add: Profit for the year
 17,832.67 
Less: Appropriations
Transfer (to)/from debenture redemption reserve
 - 
Interim dividend on equity shares including tax thereon
 (3,385.74)
Transfer to Impairment reserve
 - 
Transfer from Hedge Reserve
 5.41 
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 (3,566.53)
As at 31st March, 2025
 71,537.97 
Other comprehensive income
As at 1st April, 2023
 (105.44)
Movements during the year
 (95.90)
As at 31st March, 2024
 (201.34)
Movements during the year
 (2.42)
As at 31st March, 2025
 (203.76)
Share application money pending allotment
As at 1st April, 2023
 0.02 
Movements during the year
 (0.02)
As at 31st March, 2024
 (0.00)
Movements during the year
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 (0.00)
Total other equity
As at 31st March, 2024
 101,799.81 
As at 31st March, 2025
 116,235.50 
Nature and purpose of Reserves
a)	
Securities premium: Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares i.e excess of face value over 
issue price. The reserve can be utilised only for limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
b)	
Share option outstanding account (ESOP reserve): The share-based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of 
equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. 
Refer to Note 37 for further details of these plans.
c)	
Statutory reserve (Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934): Section 45IC of Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934 (“RBI Act, 1934”) defines that every non banking finance institution shall create a reserve fund and transfer therein a 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
235
sum not less than twenty percent of its net profit every year as disclosed in the statement of profit and loss before any dividend 
is declared. The Company has transferred an amount of `3566.53 Mn (2023-24 `3315.55 Mn) to Statutory reserve pursuant 
to Section 45-IC of RBI Act, 1934
d)	
Impairment Reserve
	
The NBFCs will have to compute two types of provisions or loss estimations, ECL as per Ind AS 109 & its internal ECL model and 
parallelly provisions as per the RBI prudential norms. A comparison between the two is required to be disclosed by the NBFC in 
the annual financial statements. Where the ECL computed as per the ECL methodology is lower than the provisions computed 
as per the IRAC norms, then the difference between the two should be parked in “Impairment Reserve”. Allocation to Impairment 
Reserve should be made out of Retained earnings and there are certain restrictions towards utilization of this reserve amount.
e)	
General reserve: Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net 
income at a specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. The purpose of these transfers was to ensure that if a 
dividend distribution in a given year is more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the Company for that year, then the total dividend 
distribution is less than the total distributable results for that year. Consequent to introduction of Companies Act 2013, the 
requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn. However, the 
amount previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of 
Companies Act, 2013.
f)	
Hedge reserve: The Company uses hedging instruments as part of its management of foreign currency risk and interest rate 
risk associated on borrowings as described within note 45. For hedging foreign currency and interest rate risk, the Company 
uses foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swaps, foreign currency option contracts and interest rate swaps. 
To the extent these hedges are effective, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the hedge reserve. 
Amounts recognised in the hedge reserve is reclassified to the statement of profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit 
or loss (e.g. interest payments).
g)	
Retained earning: Retained earnings are the profits that the Group has earned till date, less any transfers to statutory reserve, 
general reserve and dividend distributed to shareholders
h)	
Other comprehensive income: Other items of other comprehensive income consist of re-measurement of net defined benefit 
liability/asset and fair value changes on derivatives designated as cash flow hedge, net.
i)	
Share application money pending allotment: The amount received on the application for equity shares of the Company on 
which allotment is not yet made, to the extent not refundable.
j)	
Debenture redemption reserve:
	
(1)	
Pursuant to Section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 and circular 04/2013, read with notification issued date 19th June, 
2016 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Company is required before 30th day of April of each year to deposit or 
invest, as the case may be, a sum which shall not be less than 15% of the amount of its debenture issued through public 
issue maturing within one year from the balance sheet date.
	
(2)	
Pursuant to notification issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs on 16th August, 2019 in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 469 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the Central Government amend the 
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014.
	
In the principal rules, in rule 18, for sub-rule (7), the limits with respect to adequacy of Debenture Redemption Reserve and 
investment or deposits for listed companies (other than All India Financial Institutions and Banking Companies as specified 
in sub-clause (i)), Debenture Redemption Reserve is not required to maintain in case of public issue of debentures as well as 
privately placed debentures for NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India under section 45-IA of the RBI Act, 1934.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
236
Note 27: Revenue from operations
Note 27 (i): Interest income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Interest on loans
	
- Gold loans
 51,510.54 
 44,242.48 
	
- Property loans
 40.82 
 39.10 
	
- Onlending
 1,015.28 
 1,246.03 
	
- Commercial vehicles
 8,454.55 
 5,698.63 
	
- Other Loans
 5,915.08 
 5,409.00 
Interest income from investments
 148.60 
 156.07 
Interest on deposits with banks
 1,291.58 
 610.93 
Other Interest Income
	
- Interest on Subordinated Debt
 167.49 
 148.41 
	
- Interest on Security Deposit
 8.14 
 (5.76)
	
- Penal Charge Collected
 155.06 
 - 
Total
 68,707.13 
 57,544.88 
Note 27 (ii): Fees and commission income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Foreign exchange commission
 0.12 
 0.11 
Money transfer commission
 18.70 
 29.88 
Total
 18.82 
 29.99 
Note 27 (iii): Dividend Income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Dividend Income*
 - 
 150.00 
Total
 - 
 150.00 
*Dividend is received from subsidiary Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited In FY 2023-24.
Note 27 (iv): Net Gain/ (Loss) on fair value changes
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
A)	
Net Gain / (Loss) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
i) 	
On trading portfolio
	
-	
Investments
 - 
 - 
	
-	
Derivatives
 - 
 - 
ii)	
On financial Instuments designated at fair value through profit or loss
B)	
Others
	
-	
Investments in shares
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Total Net gain on fair value changes (A)
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Fair value changes:
	
- Realised
 - 
 - 
	
- Unrealised
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Total Net gain fair value changes (B)
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Note 27 (v): Other operating income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Bad debts recovery
 25.52 
 167.05 
Total
 25.52 
 167.05 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
237
Note 28: Other income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Net gain on derecognition of property, plant and equipment
 9.78 
 5.85 
Others*
 269.04 
 241.50 
Total
 278.82 
 247.35 
*Includes Interest Income from subsidiary (MACOM) of INR 197.77 milion (31st March 2024: Nil) pertaining to exceptional item as disclosed in Note. 74
Note 29: Finance costs
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Interest on debt securities
 6,124.88 
 3,915.23 
Interest on borrowings 
 16,714.14 
 13,456.46 
Finance Cost on Lease Liability
 494.41 
 521.52 
Interest on direct assignments
 22.33 
 51.47 
Other interest expense
 405.52 
 335.69 
Total
 23,761.28 
 18,280.36 
Note 30: Fees and commission expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Commission paid
 811.15 
 506.33 
Total
 811.15 
 506.33 
Note 31: Impairment on financial instruments
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial instruments measured at amortised cost:
Loans 
 2,626.59 
 1,083.20 
- Standard assets 
 275.66 
 122.87 
- Non-performing assets 
 477.87 
 216.13 
- Write offs 
 1,876.82 
 744.98 
Investments 
 - 
 - 
Others  
- Undrawn commitments 
 3.76 
 0.78 
Total 
 2,630.35 
 1,083.98 
The table below shows the ECL charges on financial instruments for the year recorded in the statement of profit and loss based on 
evaluation stage:
Year ended 31 March 2025
Particulars
General Approach
Simplified 
Approach
 Total
Stage 1 
Collective
Stage 2 
Collective
Stage 3 
Collective
 Loans 
 216.06 
 55.84 
 2,354.69 
 - 
 2,626.59 
 Investments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Others  
-	
Undrawn commitments 
 3.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.76 
Total impairment loss
 219.82 
 55.84 
 2,354.69 
 - 
 2,630.35 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
238
Year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars
General Approach
Simplified 
Approach
 Total
Stage 1 
Collective
Stage 2 
Collective
Stage 3 
Collective
 Loans 
 110.58 
 11.52 
 961.10 
 - 
 1,083.20 
 Investments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Others  
 - 
-	
Undrawn commitments 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.78 
Total impairment loss
 111.36 
 11.52 
 961.10 
 - 
 1,083.98 
Note 32: Employee benefits expenses
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Salaries and wages
 10,658.41 
 9,372.50 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 934.42 
 838.01 
Staff welfare expenses
 115.54 
 11.22 
Total
 11,708.36 
 10,221.73 
Note 33: Depreciation and amortisation
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Depreciation of tangible assets
 950.15 
 812.60 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 53.44 
 60.41 
Depreciation on Right of Use assets
 1,009.78 
 1,005.32 
Total
2,013.37
1,878.33
Note 34: Other expenses
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Rent [Refer note 41 (iii)]
 424.13 
 314.68 
Energy costs
 276.07 
 263.44 
Repairs and maintenance
 317.51 
 416.12 
Rates and taxes
 83.72 
 82.32 
Printing and stationery
 134.89 
 148.05 
Travelling and conveyance
 527.32 
 412.97 
Advertising and publicity
 919.56 
 810.41 
Directors' fees, allowances & expenses
 7.11 
 8.82 
Auditor's fees and expenses (Refer note (i) below)
16.18
 13.08 
Insurance
 79.66 
 216.37 
Communication costs
 305.93 
 307.56 
Legal and professional charges
 305.86 
 320.60 
Corporate Social Responsibility expenses (CSR) (Refer note (ii) below)
 389.65 
 387.59 
Other expenditure
 139.29 
 151.07 
IT Support costs
 481.46 
 445.45 
Security charges
 53.59 
 60.98 
Total
 4,461.92 
 4,359.50 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
239
Note (i) Payment to auditor
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
As auditors: 
Audit Fees
 15.31 
 12.54 
Other Services (Certification)
 0.87 
 0.55 
Total
 16.18 
 13.08 
Note (ii) Details of CSR expenditure
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
a)	
Gross Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
 384.46 
 444.69 
Paid
Yet to be paid
 Total 
b)	
Amount spent during the year ended on 31st March, 2025
	
i)	
Construction/acquisition of assets
 30.32 
 - 
 30.32 
	
ii)	
On purpose other than (i) above
 359.33 
 - 
 359.33 
Paid
Yet to be paid
 Total 
c)	
Amount spent during the year ended on 31st March, 2024
	
i)	
Construction/acquisition of assets
 235.00 
 - 
 235.00 
	
ii)	
On purpose other than (i) above
 209.69 
 - 
 209.69 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
d)	
CSR amount Unspent for the financial year
	
Amount Transfer to Unspent CSR amount
	
FY 2021-22
 - 
 - 
	
FY 2022-23
 - 
 - 
	
FY 2023-24
 - 
 - 
	
Total
 - 
 - 
Current Year 2024-25
In case of S. 135(5) Excess amount spent
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
Closing Balance
 -   
 384.46 
 389.65 
 (5.19)
In case of S. 135(6) (Ongoing Project) (to be given year-wise)
With 
Company
In Separate CSR Unspent 
A/c
Amount 
required to 
be spent 
during the 
year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
From 
Company’s 
Bank A/c
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
A/c
With Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
A/c
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
240
Current Year 2023-24
In case of S. 135(5) Excess amount spent
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing Balance
NA
NA
NA
NA
In case of S. 135(6) (Ongoing Project) (to be given year-wise)
With 
Company
In Separate CSR Unspent 
A/c
Amount 
required to 
be spent 
during the 
year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
From 
Company’s 
Bank A/c
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
A/c
With Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
A/c
-
FY 2022-23- ` 13.14 Million
 13.14 
 -   
 13.14 
 -   
 -   
-
FY 2021-22- ` 43.96 Million
 43.96 
 -   
 43.96 
 -   
 -   
Nature of CSR expenditure: CSR projects of Manappuram Finance Ltd are focused on promotion of quality education, promotion 
of healthcare, Rural development projects, women empowerment, environment sustainability etc which includes both ongoing and 
one year projects.  
Details of related party trasactions with respect to CSR expenditure are showed under note 42.
Note 35: Income Tax
The Company has computed the tax expense of the current financial year as per the tax regime announced under section 115BAA of 
the lncome Tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, the provision for current and deferred tax has been determined at the rate of 25.17%.
The components of income tax expense for the period ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 are:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Current tax
 6,129.71 
 5,727.56 
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (6.33)
 (89.05)
Total tax charge
 6,123.38 
 5,638.51 
Reconciliation of total Income tax expense:
The tax charge shown in the statement of profit and loss differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been charged 
at Indian corporate tax rate.
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Profit before tax for computation
 23,956.06 
 22,216.26 
Add/(Less): (Allowances) / Disallowances (Net)
 397.18 
 539.26 
Adjusted profit before tax for income tax
24,353.24
22,755.52
Current tax as per Books (Effective rate of 25.59%, 2024: 25.78%)
6,129.71
5,727.56
Adjustment of earlier year taxes
 - 
 - 
Total tax as given in Books
6,129.71
5,727.56
Statutory income tax at the rate of 25.17% (2024 : 25.17%)
6,129.71
5,727.56
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the balance sheet and changes recorded in the Income tax expense:
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
241
Particulars
Deferred 
Tax Assets
Deferred 
Tax 
Liabilities
Income 
Statement
OCI
Others - Adjusted 
in Statement of 
Profit and Loss in 
Other equity
31st March, 
2025
31st March, 
2025
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Provisions for litigations and compensated absences
 96.03 
 - 
 2.95 
 - 
 - 
Property, plant and equipment
 290.81 
 - 
17.74 
 - 
 - 
Right of use asset (Net of lease liabilities)
 1,317.93 
(1037.21)
 19.37 
 - 
Impairment allowance for financial assets
 434.00 
 - 
68.44 
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plan
 50.49 
 - 
(0.83)
10.73 
 - 
Derivative instruments in Cash flow hedge relationship
 21.63 
 - 
 - 
(9.91)
 - 
Debt instrument measured at amortised cost
 - 
(198.46)
(46.39)
 - 
 - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
 135.34 
(213.21)
(67.60)
 - 
 - 
Other temporary differences
 72.71 
(33.37)
12.64 
 - 
 - 
Total
 2,418.94  (1,482.25)
 (6.33) 
 0.81 
 - 
Net Deferred tax asset  as at 31st March, 2025
 936.68 
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the balance sheet and changes recorded in the Income tax expense:
Particulars
Deferred 
Tax Assets
Deferred 
Tax 
Liabilities
Income 
Statement
OCI
Others - Adjusted 
in Statement of 
Profit and Loss in 
Other equity
31st March, 
2024
31st March, 
2024
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
Provisions for litigations and compensated absences
 93.08 
 - 
 4.18 
 - 
 - 
Property, plant and equipment
 273.07 
 - 
56.74 
 - 
 - 
Right of use asset (Net of lease liabilities)
 1,343.86 
(1082.51)
 29.84 
 - 
Impairment allowance for financial assets
 365.56 
 - 
30.93 
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plan
 40.59 
 - 
(2.63)
3.39 
 - 
Derivative instruments in Cash flow hedge relationship
 31.54 
 - 
 - 
28.88 
 - 
Debt instrument measured at amortised cost
 - 
(152.07)
7.26 
 - 
 - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
 151.51 
(161.79)
(41.50)
 - 
 - 
Other temporary differences
 63.84 
(37.14)
4.23 
 - 
 - 
Total
 2,363.05  (1,433.51)
 (89.05) 
 32.27 
 - 
Net Deferred tax asset  as at 31st March, 2024
 929.54 
Reconciliation of deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance 
 929.54 
 808.22 
Recognised in statement of profit and loss/adjustment
 6.33 
 89.05 
Recognised in statement of profit and loss under OCI
0.81 
 32.27 
Closing Balance
936.68
 929.54 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
242
Note 36: Earnings per share
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Net profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders
 17,832.67 
 16,577.75 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic earnings per 
share (Nos.) 
 846,434,729 
 846,417,680 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted earnings per 
share (Nos.) 
 846,434,729 
 846,417,680 
Basic earnings per share (`) 
 21.07 
 19.59 
Diluted earnings per share (`) 
 21.07 
 19.59 
Note 37: Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS), 2016
The details of the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2016 are as under:
Date of share holders’ approval 
05th July, 2016
Number of options approved 
25,236,214
Date of grant 
08th August, 2016
Method of Accounting
The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock 
options to employees. The fair  value of options used are estimated on the date of grant 
using the Black – Scholes Model. The key assumptions used in Black – Scholes Model for 
calculating fair value as on the date of grant are:
(Rf )Interest Rate
Expected Life
Dividend Yield
Expected Volatility
7.03% to 7.25%
3 to 5 years
2.95%
49.68%-55.38%
Date of In principle Approval 
In principle approval of the BSE was obtained on 20th December, 2016 and NSE on 28th 
December, 2016.
Number of options granted 
13,750,466
Method of settlement 
Equity
Graded Vesting 
Graded vesting shall happen in a graded basis in three tranches over a period of three years.
a)	
The first tranche of 30% shall be vested when a period of 12 months would expire from 
the Date of grant;
b)	
The second tranche of 30% shall be vested when a period of 24 months would expire 
from the Date of grant;
c)	
The third tranche of 40% shall be vested when a period of 36 months would expire 
from the Date of grant.
Exercisable period 
The vested options shall be allowed for exercise on and from the date of vesting. The vested 
options need to be exercised with in a period of one year and 30 days from the date of 
vesting of the respective tranche through the Exercise Window to apply for ESOS Shares 
against Options vested with the Eligible Employee in pursuance of the Scheme. However, 
the Eligible Employee has a right to exercise the Options vested in the first tranche and 
second tranche on or before the expiry of the Exercise Period of the third tranche, utilising 
the exercise window which shall be a period of 30 days from the close of each half of the 
year counted from the date of vesting during the Exercise Period.
Vesting conditions 
Options shall vest essentially based on continuation of employment and apart from that the 
Board or Committee may prescribe achievement of any performance condition(s) for vesting.
Source of shares 
Primary
Variation in terms of options 
No Variations made to the term of Scheme
The Company has adopted ESOS 2016 as per SEBI(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulation, 2014 and has recorded a 
compensation expense using the fair value method as set out in those regulations.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
243
The Company has granted 13,750,466 options at an exercise price of 86.45 on 08th August, 2016 which will vest over a period of 
three years from the grant date (08th August, 2016) and the vesting of options shall be at 30% each in the first and second year and 
the balance 40% in the third year from the date of grant.
The summary of the movements in options is given below:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Options outstanding, beginning of year 
 - 
40,000 
Options granted during the year 
 - 
 - 
Lapsed Options restored during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options lapsed during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options Exercised during the year 
 - 
 (40,000) 
Options unvested and Outstanding at the end of the year 
 - 
 - 
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Weighted average remaining contract life of options
 - 
 - 
weighted average market price at the exercise date 
 - 
 152.95 
Particulars 
Vesting I 
Vesting II 
Vesting III
8th August, 2017 30% 8th August, 2018 30% 8th August, 2019 40% 
Fair Value per vest (`) 
26.11
30.61
34.29
Risk-free interest rate (%) 
7.03
7.15
7.25
Expected life 
3 years 
4 years 
5 Years 
Expected volatility (%) 
49.68
52.66
55.38
Expected dividend yield (%) 
2.95
2.95
2.95
Share price on the date of grant (face value of ` 10/-) 
86.45
86.45
86.45
The expected volatility of the stock has been determined based on historical volatility of the stock. The period over which volatility 
has been considered is the expected life of the option.  
Note 38: Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Plan
The Company makes Provident Fund and Employee State Insurance Scheme contributions which are defined contribution plans, for 
qualifying employees. Under the Schemes, the Company is required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs to fund 
the benefits. The Company recognized `682.90 Mn(31 March 2024: `620.43Mn) for Provident Fund contributions and `123.89 Mn (31 
March 2024: `116.34Mn) for Employee State Insurance Scheme contributions in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The contributions 
payable to these plans by the Company are at rates specified in the rules of the Schemes.
Defined Benefit Plan
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more of service gets a gratuity 
on departure at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The scheme is funded with Life Insurance 
Corporation of India and Kotak Life Insurance.
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognized in the statement of profit and loss and the funded 
status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the gratuity plan.
Net employee benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
Components of employer expense
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Current service cost 
229.43 
209.69 
Past Service Cost 
 - 
 - 
Net Interest on net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
 7.42 
 9.20 
Total employer expense 
 236.85 
 218.90 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
244
Net employee benefit expense recognised in the Other Comprehensive Income
Movement in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Balance at start of year (Loss)/Gain
(145.57)
(128.50)
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from changes in demographic assumptions
0.00 
0.00 
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from changes in financial assumptions
(48.98)
(7.01)
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from experience over the past year
(1.52)
7.71 
Return on Plan assets, excluding amount included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability/(asset)
7.88 
(17.71)
Balance at end of year (Loss)/Gain
(188.19)
(145.51)
Experience adjustments  
Particulars
31st March, 
2025
31st March, 
2024
31st March, 
2023
31st March, 
2022
31st March, 
2021
Defined benefit obligation 
 1,596.25 
1373.2
1251.20 
1118.76 
(1009.55)
Fair value of plan assets 
 1,395.65 
1211.94
1092.98 
1008.15 
871.77 
Asset/(liability) recognized in the balance sheet 
(200.60)
(161.26)
(158.22)
(110.60)
(137.78)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (Gain) / Loss 
 1.52 
(7.71)
52.53 
(3.98)
26.23 
Experience adjustments on plan assets Gain / (Loss) 
7.88 
(17.71)
2.31 
7.71 
(1.84)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:   
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Opening defined benefit obligation 
1373.23 
1251.22 
Transfer in/out 
(1.35)
(30.54)
Interest cost 
96.12 
88.85 
Current service cost 
229.43 
209.69 
Benefits paid 
(151.65)
(145.30)
Past service cost 
0.00 
0.00 
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from changes in demographic assumptions
0.00 
0.00 
Actuarial loss / (gain)  from changes in financial assumptions
48.98 
7.01 
Actuarial loss / (gain)  from experience over the past year
1.52 
(7.71)
Closing defined benefit obligation 
 1,596.28 
 1,373.23 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Opening fair value of plan assets 
1212.01 
1093.00 
Transfer in/Out 
(1.35)
(30.54)
Expected return 
88.70 
79.63 
Contributions by employer 
240.13 
232.93 
Benefits paid 
(151.65)
(145.30)
Actuarial gains / (losses) 
7.88 
(17.71)
Closing fair value of plan assets 
1395.72 
1212.01 
Closing Liability (net) recognised in Balance Sheet
200.60 
161.26 
Expected contribution to fund to be made in the next year 
200.00 
240.00 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
245
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligations for the Company’s plans are shown below:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Discount rate 
6.40%
7.00%
Salary growth rate
9.00%
9.00%
Attrition rate 
20.00%
20.00%
Expected rate of return on assets (per annum)
7.00%
7.10%
Percentage Break-down of total plan assets
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Real estate
0.00%
0.00%
Derivatives
0.00%
0.00%
Investment Funds with Insurance Company
99.67%
99.66%
Of which, Unit Linked
0.00%
0.00%
Of which, Traditional/ Non-Unit Linked
99.67%
99.66%
Asset-backed securities
0.00%
0.00%
Structured debt
0.00%
0.00%
Cash and cash equivalents
0.33%
0.34%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Discount rate 
 Discount rate 
Sensitivity level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
Impact on defined benefit obligation [Increase/(Decrease)]
(80.08)
88.56
(67.21)
74.08
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Salary Growth Rate
Salary Growth Rate
 Sensitivity level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation [Increase/(Decrease)]
85.52 
(78.95)
71.95 
(66.61)
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Withdrawal Rate
Withdrawal Rate
 Sensitivity level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation [Increase/(Decrease)]
(15.87)
17.10 
11.51 
(12.33)
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31st March, 2025 is 4 years (2024: 4 years)
The fund is administered by Life Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”) and Kotak Life Insurance. The overall expected rate of return on 
assets is determined  based on the market prices prevailing on that date, applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inﬂation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. The defined benefit plans expose the Company to a number 
of actuarial risks as below:
Investment Risks - The company’s performance is directly affected by the over- or under-performance of the investment assets of the 
gratuity plan. Inadequate performance could, among others, increase the future employer contributions.
Interest Rate Risk - This is the risk associated with a rise or fall in the interest rate which could affect liability and asset values. The plan 
is exposed to the interest rate risk toward its liability and asset values.
Regulatory Risk - The gratuity plan is exposed to multiple regulatory risks e.g., increase in the statutory benefit definition for gratuity. 
Higher costs from regulatory oversight of organisation pensions or from compliance toward existing trust and funding-related obligations 
(e.g., minimum funding requirements) contribute to the regulatory risks.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
246
Salary and earnings inflation Risk -  The Salary growth rate assumption is the company’s estimate of future salary increases take 
account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. In a ‘final 
salary’ gratuity plan, the risk of higher earnings-inflation and merit-related salary growth could outweigh the assumptions employed 
for the valuation and increase the company’s future defined benefit obligation.
The principal assumptions used in determining leave encashment obligations for the Company’s plans are shown below:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Discount rate 
6.40%
7.00%
Attrition rate 
20.00%
20.00%
Salary Growth Rate
9.00%
9.00%
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Government of India securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations. The estimate of future salary increases considered, takes into account the inflation, seniority, 
promotion, increments and other relevant factors.
Note 39: Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled. 
Derivatives have been classified to mature and/or be repaid within 12 months, regardless of the actual contractual maturities of the 
products. With regard to loans and advances to customers, the Company uses the same basis of expected repayment behaviour as 
used for estimating the EIR. Issued debt reflect the contractual coupon amortisations.
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Assets
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 27,895.66 
 - 
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
 - 
 15,293.86 
Bank Balance other than above
 1,490.41 
 759.52 
 2,249.93 
 1,500.06 
 573.58 
 2,073.64 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 (34.99)
 336.17 
 301.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Loans
 278,619.92 
 55,410.26  334,030.18 
 236,797.28 
 53,791.64  290,588.92 
Investments
 3,063.48 
 15,155.04 
 18,218.53 
 54.39 
 17,601.32 
 17,655.71 
Other Financial assets
 4,300.29 
 531.16 
 4,831.45 
 2,662.30 
 248.54 
 2,910.84 
Non-financial Assets
 - 
 - 
Current tax assets (net) 
 661.06 
 - 
 661.06 
 524.94 
 - 
 524.94 
Deferred tax assets (net)
 - 
 936.68 
 936.68 
 - 
 929.54 
 929.54 
Property, plant and equipment
 - 
 4,095.21 
 4,095.21 
 - 
 3,597.31 
 3,597.31 
Capital work-in-progress
 - 
 114.70 
 114.70 
 - 
 333.46 
 333.46 
Right of Use Asset
 - 
 4,253.41 
 4,253.41 
 - 
 4,448.36 
 4,448.36 
Other Intangible assets
 - 
 174.04 
 174.04 
 - 
 107.27 
 107.27 
Other non financial assets
 486.01 
 107.67 
 593.67 
 436.66 
 30.09 
 466.75 
Total assets
 316,481.83 
 81,873.86  398,355.69  257,269.49 
 81,661.11 338,930.60 
Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 110.22 
 110.22 
Payables
 1,003.91 
 - 
 1,003.91 
 1,066.25 
 - 
 1,066.25 
Debt Securities
 14,773.07 
 46,782.30 
 61,555.37 
 17,345.59 
 26,994.22 
 44,339.81 
Borrowings (other than debt security)
 124,890.50 
 84,013.10  208,903.60 
 121,927.46 
 58,401.05 
 180,328.51 
Subordinated Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Lease Liability
 - 
 5,236.13 
 5,236.13 
 - 
 5,339.14 
 5,339.14 
Other Financial liabilities
 1,836.68 
 687.27 
 2,523.95 
 1,936.31 
 604.71 
 2,541.02 
Non-financial Liabilities
 - 
Provisions
 623.57 
 - 
 623.57 
 573.07 
 - 
 573.07 
Other non-financial liabilities
 580.80 
 - 
 580.80 
 1,139.90 
 - 
 1,139.90 
Total Liabilities
 143,708.53 
 136,718.79  280,427.32  143,988.59 
 91,449.33  235,437.93 
Net
 172,773.31  (54,844.93)
 117,928.37 
 113,280.91 
 (9,788.23)  103,492.68 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
247
Note 40: Change in liabilities arising from financing activities
Particulars
As at 
 31st March, 2024
Cash Flows
Ind AS 
Adjustments
As at 
31st March, 2025
Debt Securities
 44,339.81 
 17,600.27 
 (384.71)
 61,555.37 
Borrowings other than debt securities
 180,328.51 
 28,779.20 
 (204.11)
 208,903.60 
Lease Liability
 5,339.14 
 794.09 
 (897.10)
 5,236.13 
Subordinated Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 230,007.46 
 47,173.57 
 (1,485.93)
 275,695.09 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2023
Cash Flows
Ind AS 
Adjustments
As at 
31st March, 2024
Debt Securities
 49,608.07 
 (4,806.38)
 (461.89)
 44,339.81 
Borrowings other than debt securities
 142,685.00 
 37,785.81 
 (142.30)
 180,328.51 
Lease Liability
 5,743.43 
 595.82 
 (1,000.11)
 5,339.14 
Subordinated Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 198,036.50 
 33,575.25 
 (1,604.30)
 230,007.46 
Note 41: Contingent Liabilities, Commitments & Leases
Note 41 (i): Contingent Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
A.	
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as Debts
	
a.	
In respect of Income Tax Demands where the company has filed 
appeal before various authorities
 888.10 
 917.28 
	
b.	
In respect of GST(Goods and Service Tax) where the company has 
filed appeal before various authorities
 127.89 
 33.13 
	
c.	
In respect of VAT(Value Added Tax) where the company has filed 
appeal before various authorities
 53.24 
 44.99 
Total
 1,069.23 
 995.40 
Notes;
(a)	
Applicability of Kerala Money Lenders’ Act : The Company has challenged in the Hon’ble Supreme Court the order of 
Hon’ble Kerala High Court upholding the applicability of Kerala Money Lenders Act to NBFCs.  The Hon’ble Supreme Court 
has directed that a status quo on the matter shall be maintained and the matter is currently pending with the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court.  The Company has taken legal opinion on the matter and based on such opinion the management is 
confident of a favourable outcome.  Pending the resolution of the same, no adjustments have been made in the financial 
statements for the required license fee and Security deposits.
b)	
The company has some labour cases pending against it in various courts and with labour commissioners of various states. 
The company’s liability for these cases are not disclosed since actual liability to be provided is unascertainable.
	
Note 41 (ii): Commitments
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account, 
net of advances
 41.30 
 340.73 
Commitments Related To Loans Sanctioned but undrawn
 6,730.07 
 4,000.00 
Total
 6,771.37 
 4,340.73 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
248
	
Note 41 (iii): Lease Disclosures (entity as a lessee)
	
(a) 	 Leases of Branch Premises
	
(i)	
Ind AS 116 “Leases” is applied to all lease contracts. The company recorded the lease liability at the present value of 
the lease payments discounted at the incremental borrowing rate of the company and the right of use (ROU) asset 
at measured at the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability.
	
(ii)	
The following is the summary of practical expedients elected on initial application:
	
	
1.	
Applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases of similar assets in similar economic environment 
with a similar end date. Discount rate has been taken as the Incremental Borrowing rate of borrowings with 
similar tenure.
	
	
2.	
Applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months 
of lease term on the date of initial application.
	
	
3.	
Excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application.
	
(iii)	
The entity takes branch premises on lease. Below are the changes made during the year in the carrying value of:
	
	
-Right-of-use assets
Particulars 
 Amount 
Balance as at 31st March, 2023 
 4,978.66 
Additions 
 475.02 
Depreciation on ROU Assets 
 (1,005.32)
Balance as at 31st March, 2024 
 4,448.36 
Additions 
 941.36 
Deletion 
 (126.53)
Depreciation on ROU Assets 
 (1,009.78)
Balance as at 31st March, 2025 
 4,253.41 
	
	
-Lease liabilities
Particulars 
 Amount 
Balance as at 31st March, 2023 
 5,743.43 
Additions 
 475.02 
Deletion 
 - 
Payment of Lease liabilities 
 (1,400.83)
Finance cost accrued during the period 
 521.52 
Balance as at 31st March, 2024 
 5,339.14 
Additions 
 941.36 
Deletion 
 (98.64)
Payment of Lease liabilities 
 (1,440.13)
Finance cost accrued during the period 
 494.41 
Balance as at 31st March, 2025 
 5,236.13 
	
	
- Amounts recognised in profit and loss
 Particulars 
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025 
 For the year ended 
31st March, 2024 
 Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets 
 1,009.78 
 1,005.32 
 Interest expense on lease liabilities 
 494.41 
 521.52 
 	
	
 The total cash outflow for leases amount to `1440.13 Mn (for the period ended 31st March, 2024 ` 1,400.83 Mn)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
249
	
	
Maturity analysis of Lease Liability
 Particulars 
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Not later than one year 
 1,415.37 
 747.33 
Later than one year but not later than four years 
 3,161.34 
 356.52 
Later than four years 
 659.42 
 4,235.29 
 5,236.13 
 5,339.14 
	
The entity does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities. Lease liabilities are monitored within 
the entity’s treasury function.
	
(b) 	 Lease of Short Period (Less than 12 months)
	
The leases of certain premises are less than 12 months and hence are considered as short term leases and are exempted 
from the scope of leases under Ind AS 116.
	
During the year, the Company charged off ` 145.98 Mn (Previous year ` 144.93 Mn) as rent expenses on short term leases.
Note 42: Related Party Disclosures
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Subsidiary company 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Asirvad Microfinance Limited 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
Associates / Enterprises owned  or significantly 
influenced by key management  personnel or 
their relatives.
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited
Manappuram Foundation
Manappuram Health Care Limited 
Manappuram Construction and Consultants Limited
Manappuram Chit Funds Company Private Limited *
MABEN Nidhi Limited
Manappuram Asset Finance Limited
Manappuram Chits (Karnataka) Private Limited *
Manappuram Chits India Limited
Adlux Medicity and Convention Centre Private Limited*
MAFIN Enterprise *
Manappuram travels*
Manappuram Chits *
SNST Advisories Private Limited*
DTA Advisory Private Limited*
DTB Advisory Private Limited*
DT3 Advisory Private Limited*
Finance Industry Development Council
Kalyani Forge Limited*
Aquapharm Chemical Limited*
TVS Credit Services Limited*
Pramerica Life Insurance Limited*
Abans Global Ltd, UK*
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
250
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Mukundapuram Educational and Cultural Society*
Orange Retail Finance India Private Limited*
Manappuram Finance Employees Group Gratuity Fund Trust
Earthables Projects LLP*
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited*
Fenca Ltd UK (Formerly known as Fast Encash Money Transfer Services - 
Ltd)*
Rebar Design and Details Ltd*
Saral Money Ltd*
Association of UK Payment and Fintech Companies*
Firstsource Solutions Limited*
Gateway Gardens ( Block B) Management Ltd*
InCred Financial Services Limited*
Value Finance Corporation Limited*
Value Finance Ltd*
Cochin International Airport Limited*
Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode*
India Shelter Finance Corporation Limited*
Morgan & Harvey Services Ltd*
PCBL Chemical Limited*
Minda Instruments Limited*
Minda Corporation Limited*
GPS Renewables Private Limited*
Aavali Solutions Private Limited*
Guru Deva International Mission*
MACARE Dental Care Private Limited*
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
Infomerics Valuation And Rating Limited
Stallion Onebyte Private Limited
Manikandan Associates
Key Management Personnel
Mr. V P Nandakumar - Managing Director & CEO 
Mr. Shailesh J Mehta - Chairman
Ms. Sumitha Nandan - Whole Time Director
Ms. Pratima Ram - Non-Executive Director
Mrs. Bindu AL - Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Manoj Kumar VR - Company Secretary
Mr. Suseel Kumar T C - Non-Executive Director
Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal - Non-Executive Director
Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemandini - Non-Executive Director
Mr. Abhijit Sen - Non-Executive Director
Mr. Harshan Kollara - Non-Executive Director
Mr. E K Bharat Bhushan - Non-Executive Director
Adv. V.R.Ramachandran - Non-Executive Director  
(tenure completed w.e.f. 31th July, 2024)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
251
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Mr. P.Manomohanan - Non-Executive Director  
(tenure completed w.e.f. 31th July, 2024)
Mr. S R Balasubramanian - Non-Executive Director  
(resigned w.e.f. 09th May 2024)
Relatives of Key Management Personnel 
Mrs. Sushama Nandakumar (wife of Mr. V P Nandakumar)
Mr. Sooraj Nandan (son of Mr. V P Nandakumar)
Mr. Suhas Nandan (son of Mr. V P Nandakumar)
Mrs. Shelly Ekalavyan (sister of Mr. V P Nandakumar)*
Mrs. Jyothi Prasannan(sister of Mr.V.P.Nandakumar)
Mr. Jayasankar S (Daughter's Husband of Mr. V P Nandakumar)*
Ms. Shruthi (Son's Wife of Mr. V P Nandakumar)*
Ms. Niniraj (Son's Wife of Mr. V P Nandakumar)*
Ms. Tamashree Sen (Wife of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Ms. Arati sen (Mother of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Mr. Rohan Sen (Son of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Mr. Vivek Sen (Son of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Ms. Snehal Naik (Son's Wife of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Ms. Amanda Barbee (Son's Wife of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Mr. Bishwajit Sen (Brother of Mr. Abhijit Sen)*
Ms. Geeta Balasubramanian (Wife of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)*
Mr. Ramnath Balasubramanian (Son of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)*
Ms. Rajni Ramnath (Son's Wife of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)*
Mr. S R Gopalakrishnan (Brother of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)*
Ms. Subhadra Manomohan (Wife of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Mr. Sajith (Son of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Ms. Asha (Son's Wife of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Mr. Balachandran (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Mr. Suresh Kumar (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Mr. Ragunath (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Mr. Sreedharan (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)*
Ms. Leena NS (Wife of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Ms. Anju VR (Daughter of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Mr. Rithwik V R (Son of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Mr. Sethunath S R(Daughter’s Husband of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Ms. Indira (Sister of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Mr. Sreedharan (Brother of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Mr. Paranunni (Brother of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Mr. Rishikeshan (Brother of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)*
Mr. Nandakumar Kollara (Son of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Mr. Jaihari Kollara (Son of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Mrs. Elena T Kollara (Son's Wife of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Dr.Sugathan Kollara  (Brother of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Mr. Sreenath Kollara (Brother of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Ms. Sarala K S (Sister of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Ms. Jayanthy K S (Sister of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
252
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Ms. Sunitha K S (Sister of Mr. Harshan Kollara)*
Ms. Kalpa (Wife of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Mr. Sameet S. Mehta (Son of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Mr. Kirtee S. Mehta (Son of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Ms. Sheetal Fisher (Daughter of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Mr. Sean Fisher (Daughter's Husband of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Mr. Sanjay Jayantilal Mehta (Brother of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Mr. Umesh Jayantilal Mehta (Brother of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)*
Mr. S Ramasubramanian (Relative of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Jyotsna Ram (Daughter of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Mr. Prakash Patel (Brother of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Mr. Prabhuling Patel (Brother of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Pramila Byahatti (Sister of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Poornima Jairaj (Sister of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Vijayalakshmi Patel (Sister of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Anushka Jayasankar (Daughter of Ms. Sumitha Nandan)*
Ms. Aashirya Jayasankar  (Daughter of Ms. Sumitha Nandan)*
Ms. Aswathy Sreevatsan (Daughter of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Mr. Sumit Saseendran (Son in law of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Mr. V P Sugunan (Brother of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. V P Lalitha (Sister of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. V P Surabhi (Sister of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. V P Geetha (Sister of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. Maya V. V (Wife of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Gautam Suseel (Son of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Ms. Gayathri (Daughter of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Nikhil Shyam (Daughter's Husband of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
 Mr. Nanda Kumar (Brother of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Gopa Kumar (Brother of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Sanal Kumar (Brother of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Ms. Geetha Bhaskar (Sister of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Ms. Betsy Rajagopal (Wife of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Rahul Raja (Son of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Ms. Rhea Raja (Daughter of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Venu P Gopal (Brother of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Sreekumar (Brother of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Shibu Kumar (Brother of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. P K Vydiar (Father of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms. Rugmini  (Mother of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms. Ranjana  (Wife of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Mr. Virendra  (Son of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms. Parvathy  (Daughter of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms. Siji M G (Wife of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. V K Raman (Father of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Ms. V K Vilasini (Mother of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
253
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Mr. Harikrishna M Manoj (Son of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Naveen Kumar V R (Brother of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Praveen V R (Brother of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Ms. Geetha V R (Sister of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Benny (Husband of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Ms. Rosily Lonappan (Mother of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Mr. Amal Benny (Son of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Ms. Anna Ben (Daughter of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Mr. Biju A L (Brother of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Mr. Nelson A L (Brother of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
* No transactions with these related partieses
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
254
Related Party transactions during the year: 
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Investment In Subsidiary Company
 - 
 - 
 500.00 
 3,112.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 500.00 
 3,112.83 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 500.00 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,464.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,464.42 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited - Subordinate Debt
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
Interest Paid on Assignment Transaction
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 4.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 4.94 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 4.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 4.94 
Sitting Fee To Directors: 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.69 
 7.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.69 
 7.58 
Mr. Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 0.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 0.93 
Mr. Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.09 
 1.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.09 
 1.02 
Mr. P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.27 
 1.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.27 
 1.13 
Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.14 
 1.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.14 
 1.10 
Mr. V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 0.78 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.57 
Ms. Pratima
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.95 
 1.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.95 
 1.07 
Ms. Seemandhini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.74 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.82 
 0.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.82 
 0.12 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
 0.08 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.67 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.67 
 0.04 
Commission Fee To Directors: 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
Mr. P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
Mr. V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
Mr. Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
Mr. Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
Mr. Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
Ms. Pratima Ram
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms. V P Seemanthini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
255
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Mr. T. C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
Remuneration To Directors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 138.37 
 117.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 138.37 
 117.34 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 121.50 
 106.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 121.50 
 106.88 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.88 
 10.46 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.88 
 10.46 
Remuneration To Other Kmps
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.54 
 18.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.54 
 18.98 
Ms. Bindu A.L 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.94 
 14.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.94 
 14.79 
Mr. Manoj Kumar V R 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.60 
 4.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.60 
 4.20 
Remuneration Paid To Relative Of Kmp
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
Mr. Suhas Nandan 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
Incentive
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
Ms. Bindu A.L – CFO 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
CSR Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
Payment To Gratuity Trust
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
Manppuram Group Gratuity Trust(Approved)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
 Rent Paid 
 - 
 - 
 2.35 
 1.69 
 7.37 
 6.98 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.17 
 - 
 - 
 9.90 
 8.84 
Mr. Suhas Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.17 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.17 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.37 
 6.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.37 
 6.98 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited 
 - 
 - 
 2.35 
 1.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.35 
 1.69 
Membership and Subscription Fee Paid
Finance Industry Development Council
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.10 
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & 
Industry (FICCI)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.70 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.70 
 0.78 
Advertisement Expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.56 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.56 
Federation Of Indian Chambers Of Commerce & 
Industry (FICCI)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.53 
Masters Games Association
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
Reimbursement Expense Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
256
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Technical Charges Paid
 - 
 - 
 248.32 
 185.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 248.32 
 185.03 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 248.32 
 185.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 248.32 
 185.03 
Maintenance And Repairs Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.59 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.59 
Rating Fee Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
Infomerics Valuation and Rating Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
Stationery Expenses Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
Stallion Onebyte Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
Professional Charges
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
Manikandan And Associates
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
Dividend Paid to Promoter and their relatives
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 983.42 
 810.00 
 209.99 
 173.24 
 - 
 - 
 1,193.40 
 983.24 
Service fee and Penalty Received
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.21 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.21 
Interest Received - Corporate Loan
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 58.35 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 58.35 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 10.56 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 10.56 
Manappuram Asset Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Spandana Sphoorty Financial Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 47.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 47.79 
Interest Received on Subordinated Debt
 - 
 - 
 20.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.34 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 20.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.34 
 - 
Rent Waived
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 Manappuram Foundation  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 Printing of Notices and Bill Book 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 2.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 2.86 
Manappuram Foundation  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 2.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 2.86 
Rent Received 
 - 
 - 
 7.99 
 8.81 
 1.56 
 1.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9.55 
 10.54 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 1.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 1.48 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.25 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 1.61 
 1.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.61 
 1.53 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 4.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 4.67 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 1.49 
 2.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.49 
 2.61 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.001 
 0.001 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.001 
 0.001 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
257
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Electricity Charge Received 
 - 
 - 
 0.40 
 0.39 
 0.46 
 0.51 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.87 
 0.90 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.43 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.40 
 0.39 
 0.40 
 0.39 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
Rent & Reimbursement Expense Received
 - 
 - 
 6.82 
 18.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.82 
 18.06 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 1.98 
 1.81 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.98 
 1.81 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.34 
 7.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.34 
 7.60 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 4.49 
 8.65 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.49 
 8.65 
Fee from Education And Training Services 
 - 
 - 
 6.94 
 6.96 
 0.72 
 0.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.66 
 7.63 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.11 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 0.02 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 5.93 
 6.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.93 
 6.08 
Maben Nidhi Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.14 
Manappuram Asset Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 0.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 0.26 
Manappuram Chits India Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 0.21 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.21 
 0.18 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Manappuram Health Care Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 0.08 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited 
 - 
 - 
 0.78 
 0.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.78 
 0.68 
Education And Training Services Provided in FY 
2022-23 Received in FY 2023-24
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.17 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.43 
Manappuram Health Care Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.74 
Dividend Income Received
 - 
 - 
 - 
 150.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 150.00 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 150.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 150.00 
Corporate Loan Given To 
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 1,700.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 1,700.00 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 500.00 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,200.00 
Repayment Of Corporate Loan From
 - 
 - 
 250.00  3,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 250.00  3,000.00 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 500.00 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 -  2,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  2,500.00 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
258
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Principal Repayment On Assignment Transaction
 - 
 - 
 8.63 
 13.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.63 
 13.37 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 8.63 
 13.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.63 
 13.37 
Recovery of Income
 - 
 - 
 45.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.05 
 - 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited
 - 
 - 
 45.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.05 
 - 
Balance Outstanding As At The Year End:
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Security Deposit 
 - 
 - 
 3.39 
 4.76 
 0.39 
 0.39 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.78 
 5.15 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 0.19 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.16 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.54 
 0.54 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.54 
 0.54 
Indirect Related Party Transaction
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 2.84 
 4.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.84 
 4.22 
Corporate Loan Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Corporate Loan Outstanding -Secured  Undrawn 
line of Credit
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 -  5,000.00  2,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  5,000.00  2,500.00 
Maximum amount outstanding during the year 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 250.00 
 500.00 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 -  2,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  2,500.00 
Investment Outstanding
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 2,572.90 
 2,072.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,572.90 
 2,072.90 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 -  10,777.57 
 10,777.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  10,777.57 
 10,777.57 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 26.11 
 26.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.11 
 26.11 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited
 - 
 - 
 84.38 
 59.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 84.38 
 59.50 
Subordinated Debt in Asirvad Microfinance Limited
 - 
 - 
 1,647.14 
 1,648.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,647.14 
 1,648.41 
Advance for investment in subsidiary - 
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.37 
 0.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.37 
 0.37 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
259
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Investment - Maximum Amount Outstanding 
during the year
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 2,572.90 
 2,072.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,572.90 
 2,072.90 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 -  10,777.57 
 10,777.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  10,777.57 
 10,777.57 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 26.11 
 26.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.11 
 26.11 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 84.38 
 59.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 84.38 
 59.50 
Subordinated Debt in Asirvad Microfinance Limited 
 - 
 - 
 1,647.14 
 1,648.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,647.14 
 1,648.41 
Advance for investment in subsidiary - 
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 0.37 
 0.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.37 
 0.37 
Amount Receivable From Related Parties
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Education and Training Fee Receivable
 1.55 
 6.27 
 0.18 
 0.41 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 1.49 
 6.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.49 
 6.08 
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.02 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.18 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.11 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
Maben Nidhi Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.14 
Manappuram Asset Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 - 
Manappuram Chits India Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
Manappuram Health Care Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 0.08 
Interest Receivable on Subordianted Debt 
 - 
 - 
 147.95 
 148.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 147.95 
 148.41 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 147.95 
 148.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 147.95 
 148.41 
Amount Recoverable
 - 
 - 
 148.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 148.76 
 - 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 148.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 148.76 
 - 
Amounts Payable  To Related Parties
 - 
 - 
 Commission Fee To Directors: 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
Mr.Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
Mr.P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
Mr.V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 Mr.Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
260
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Mr.Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
Ms. Pratima Ram
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms.V P Seemanthini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
Sitting Fee Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.09 
Mr.Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
Mr.Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
Mr.P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
Mr.Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
Mr.V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Ms. Pratima
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.02 
Ms. Seemandhini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.04 
Incentive Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 Ms. Bindu A.L 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
Rating Fee Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
Infomerics Valuation And Rating Limited
 0.52 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
Rent Payable
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
 0.92 
 0.48 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 - 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
IT Support Cost Payable
 - 
 - 
 28.84 
 14.26 
 28.84 
 14.26 
Manappuram Comptech And Consultants Limited 
 - 
 - 
 28.84 
 14.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28.84 
 14.26 
Assignment Transaction-Payable
 0.92 
 3.05 
 0.92 
 3.05 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 3.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 3.05 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
261
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Stationery Expenses Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stallion Onebyte Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Retention Payable
 - 
 0.38 
 - 
 0.38 
Manappuram Construction And Consultants 
Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
Note:
a)	
Related parties have been identified on the basis of the declaration received by the management and other records available.
b)	
Loans given to related parties are repayable on demand.
c)	
Audit Committee Meeting held on 06.02.2024, granted approval of unsecured loan to Asirvad Microfinance Limited upto `250 Crores ( ` 130 Crores @9.25% in FY 2022-23 & ` 120 Crores 
@ 9.75% in FY 2023-24) and granted  approval of unsecured loan to Manappuram Home Finance Limited ` 150 Crores @ 9.40% which are repayable after 12 months from the date of 
disbursement.
d)	
The loans have been utilised by the Manappuram Home Finance Limited for lending Home Loan and meeting the working capital requirements.
e)	
The remuneration to the key managerial personnel does not include the provisions made for gratuity and leave benefits, as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the company as a 
whole.
f)	
Investment in Subordinate debt of Asirvad Micro Finance Limited carry interest @11.25%.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
262
Note 43: Capital
Disclosures as required in Annex VII of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-
24 dated 19th October, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Capital Management
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company complies with externally 
imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and to 
maximise shareholder value.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it according to changes in economic conditions and the risk 
characteristics of its activities. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividend 
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue capital securities. No changes have been made to the objectives, 
policies and processes from the previous years. However, they are under constant review by the Board.
The Company’s debt equity ratio as on 31st March 2025 stands at 2.29 times (2.17 times as at 31st March, 2024).
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the Company has paid the interim dividend of `4.5/-  per equity share for the year ended 
31st March, 2025 amounting to `3,385.74 Mn (3.3 per equity share amounting to ` 2793.18 Mn for the year ended March 31 2024.)
Regulatory capital
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Common Equity Tier1 (CET1) capital
 111,789.57 
 96,645.14 
Other Tier 2 capital instruments
 - 
 - 
Total capital
 111,789.57 
 96,645.14 
Amount of subordinated debt raised as Tier-II Capital
 - 
 - 
Amount raised by issue of Perpetual Debt Instrument
 - 
 - 
Risk weighted assets
 361,666.92 
 316,042.93 
CET1 capital ratio
30.91%
30.58%
CET2 capital ratio
0.00%
0.00%
Total capital ratio
30.91%
30.58%
Note 44: Fair Value Measurement
44.1 Valuation principles
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or 
most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions , regardless of whether that price is directly 
observable or estimated using a valuation technique. In order to show how fair values have been derived, financial instruments 
are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques as explained in the material accounting policies of the year ended 
31st March, 2025.
44.2 Valuation governance
The Company’s  process to determine fair values is part of its periodic financial close process. The Audit Committee exercises the 
overall supervision over the  methodology and models to determine the fair value as part of its overall monitoring of financial close 
process and controls. The responsibility of ongoing measurement resides with business units . Once submitted, fair value estimates 
are also reviewed and challenged by the Risk and Finance functions.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
263
44.3 Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the  fair value hierarchy:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
I.	 Assets measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
	 Derivative financial instruments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	 Cross Currency Swaps
 - 
192.65 
 - 
192.65 
 - 
 8.33 
 - 
8.33 
	 Forward Rate Agreements
 - 
 108.53 
 - 
 108.53 
 - 
 - 
0.00 
	 Total derivative financial instruments
 - 
301.17 
 - 
301.17 
 - 
 8.33 
 - 
 8.33 
	 Financial investments
	 Equity Shares
 46.57 
 - 
 - 
 46.57 
 0.36 
 - 
 - 
 0.36 
	  Total financial investments  
 46.57 
 - 
 - 
 46.57 
 0.36 
 - 
 - 
 0.36 
a.	Assets measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis 
 46.57 
301.17 
 - 
347.74 
 0.36 
 8.33 
 - 
 8.70 
b.	Assets measured at fair value on a non-
recurring basis
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
c.	Total Assets measured at fair value (a+b)
 46.57 
 301.17 
 - 
 347.74 
 0.36 
 8.33 
 - 
 8.70 
II.	Liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis 
	 Derivative financial instruments
	 Forward contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
 (118.55)
 - 
(118.55)
	 Cross Currency Swaps
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
d.	Liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
(118.55)
 - 
(118.55)
e.	Liabilities measured at fair value on a 
non-recurring basis 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
0.00 
f.	 Total Liabilities measured at fair value 
(d+e)
 - 
0.00 
 - 
0.00 
 - 
(118.55)
 - 
(118.55)
44.4 Valuation techniques
Equity instruments
Equity instruments in non-listed entities are initially recognised at transaction price and re-measured (to the extent information 
is available) and valued on a case-by-case and classified as Level 3. The Company uses prices from prior transactions without 
adjustment to arrive at the fair value. Prior transaction represents the price at which same investment was sold in the deal transaction. 
Quoted equity instruments on recognised stock exchange are valued at level 1 heirarchy being the unadjusted quoted price as at 
the reporting date.
Cross Currency Swaps
Interest rate derivatives include interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, basis swaps and interest rate forwards 
(FRAs). The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations 
by estimating future cash flows and discounting them with the appropriate yield curves incorporating funding costs relevant for 
the position. These contracts are generally Level 2 unless adjustments to yield curves or credit spreads are based on significant 
non-observable inputs, in which case, they are Level 3.
Interest rate derivatives
Interest rate derivatives include interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, basis swaps and interest rate forwards 
(FRAs). The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations 
by estimating future cash flows and discounting them with the appropriate yield curves incorporating funding costs relevant for 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
264
the position. These contracts are generally Level 2 unless adjustments to yield curves or credit spreads are based on significant 
non-observable inputs, in which case, they are Level 3.
Foreign exchange contracts
Foreign exchange contracts include open spot contracts, foreign exchange forward and swap contracts and over the-counter foreign 
exchange options. These instruments are valued by either observable foreign exchange rates, observable or calculated forward points 
and option valuation models. With the exception of contracts where a directly observable rate is available which are disclosed as 
Level 1, the Company classifies foreign exchange contracts as Level 2 financial instruments when no unobservable inputs are used 
for their valuation or the unobservable inputs used are not significant to the measurement (as a whole).
Movements in Level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
There are no Level 3 financial assets and liabilities which are recorded at fair value.
For fair value of financial instruments not measured at fair value - 
Particulars
Level
Carrying Value
Fair Value
31st March, 2025 31st March, 2024 31st March, 2025 31st March, 2024
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
2
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
 27,895.66 
 15,293.86 
Bank Balance other than above
2
 2,249.93 
 2,073.64 
 2,249.93 
 2,073.64 
Loans
3
 334,030.18 
 290,588.92 
 334,030.18 
 290,588.89 
Investments
3
 15,155.04 
 14,585.41 
 15,155.04 
 14,585.41 
Investments
2
 3,063.48 
 3,070.30 
 3,063.48 
 3,070.30 
Other Financial assets
2
 4,831.45 
 2,910.84 
 4,831.45 
 2,910.84 
Total Financial Assets
 387,225.75 
 328,522.98 
 387,225.75 
 328,522.95 
Financial Liabilities
Payables
2
 1,003.91 
1,066.25
 1,003.91 
 1,066.26 
Debt Securities
2
 61,555.37 
 44,339.81 
 61,555.37 
 44,339.81 
Borrowings (other than debt security)
2
 208,903.60 
 180,328.51 
 208,903.60 
 180,328.51 
Subordinated Liabilities
2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Lease Liability
2
 5,236.13 
 5,339.14 
 5,236.13 
 5,339.14 
Other Financial liabilities
2
 2,523.95 
 2,541.02 
 2,523.95 
 2,541.02 
Financial Liabilities
 279,222.95 
 233,614.73 
 279,222.95 
 233,614.73 
The financial asset above does not include investment in subsidiary, which is measured at cost in accordance with Ind AS 27.
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current 
liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 
Valuation methodologies of financial instruments not measured at fair value
Below are the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for the above financial instruments which are not 
recorded and measured at fair value in the financial statements. These fair values were calculated for disclosure purposes only.
Short-term financial assets and liabilities
For financial assets and financial liabilities that have a short-term maturity (less than twelve months), the carrying amounts, which 
are net of impairment, are a reasonable approximation of their fair value. Such instruments include: cash and balances, balances 
other than cash and cash equivalents, trade payables and other financial liabilities without a specific maturity. Such amounts have 
been classified as Level 2 on the basis that no adjustments have been made to the balances in the balance sheet.
Loans and advances to customers
Fair value of Loans estimated using a discounted cash flow model on contractual cash flows using actual/estimated yields.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
265
Debt and Borrowings
The floating rate loans are fair valued on the basis of MCLR+spread.  For fixed rate loans, the carrying values are a reasonable 
approximation of their fair value.
Note 45: Risk Management
Risk is an integral part of the Company’s business and sound risk management is critical to the success. As a financial institution, the 
Company is exposed to risks that are particular to its lending and the environment within which it operates and primarily includes 
Credit, Liquidity, Market and Operational Risks. Company’s goal in risk management is to ensure that it understands measures and 
monitors the various risks that arise and the organization adheres strictly to the policies and procedures which are established to 
address these risks. The Company has a risk management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities. 
The Board of Directors of the company are responsible for the overall risk management approach, approving risk management 
strategies and principles.  Risk Management Committee of the Board reviews credit, operations and market risks faced by MAFIL 
periodically.Company has appointed a Chief Credit Officer who reports to MD & CEO and presenting risk related matters to Risk 
Management Committee and the Board.
The Company has  implemented comprehensive policies and procedures to assess, monitor and manage risk throughout the Company. 
The risk management process is continuously reviewed, improved and adapted in the changing risk scenario and the agility of the risk 
management process is monitored and reviewed for its appropriateness in the changing risk landscape. The process of continuous 
evaluation of risks includes taking stock of the risk landscape on an event-driven basis.
The Company has an elaborate process for risk management. Major risks identified by the businesses and functions are systematically 
addressed through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the 
Company.  As the company predominantly lend against gold jewellery, which are liquid securities, its credit risks are comparatively 
lower.   Its other verticals, Micro Finance, Vehicle Finance, Micro loans etc have significant credit risk. 
Appraisal Risk: The borrowers are awarded risk grades and only eligible borrowers are financed. Besides continuous training of 
employees through digital media, Credit officers are imparted on the job and class room training on a continuous basis. Credit appraisal 
processes are being reviewed regularly by Credit Monitoring teams and credit auditors and more risk filters are added whenever 
necessary. 
Collection risk: As the gold ornaments are liquid, collection in gold portfolio attaches minimal risks.  We have developed a team of 
trained Relationship Managers and sales staff  for continuous engagement with the borrowers under verticals like Micro Finance, 
Vehicle Finance, Housing loans, Micro loans etc  to ensure timely payment of their dues. Collection efficiency of  verticals are being 
monitored closely by the Senior Management.
Concentration risk:  As on 31/03/2025, our gold loan portfolio is 77.24 % of our consolidated AUM. Gold loans are granted against 
liquid securities for short period which substantially insulates from credit risk and liquidity risk. We have already diversified into 
Micro Finance, Home Finance, Commercial Vehicles and budget to grow the new verticals so as to contain our exposure to gold to 
50% of the total AUM in ten years. 
Our geographical presence is largely in the southern India. We are now giving thrust for opening new branches in north and north 
eastern states which have high growth potentials. A geographical exposure limit will be fixed when operations of the new branches 
are stabilised. 
The credit risk management policy of the Company seeks to have following controls and key metrics that allows credit risks to be 
identified, assessed, monitored and reported in a timely and efficient manner in compliance with regulatory requirements.
-	
Standardize the process of identifying new risks and designing appropriate controls for these risks.
-	
Maintain an appropriate credit administration and loan review system.
-	
Establish metrics for portfolio monitoring.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
266
-	
Minimize losses due to defaults or untimely payments by borrowers.
-	
Design appropriate credit risk mitigation techniques.
In order to mitigate the impact of credit risk in the future profitability, the company makes reserves basis the expected credit loss 
(ECL) model for the outstanding loans as balance sheet date. 
The below discussion describes the Company’s approach for assessing impairment as stated in the material accounting policies.
The Company considers a financial instrument defaulted and therefore Stage 3 (credit impaired) for ECL calculations in all cases 
when the borrower becomes 90 days past due on its contractual payments.
As a part of a qualitative assessment of whether a customer is in default, the Company also considers a variety of instances that may 
indicate unlikeness to pay. When such events occur, the Company carefully considers whether the event should result in treating the 
customer as defaulted and therefore assessed as Stage 3 for ECL calculations ow whether Stage 2 is appropriate.
Exposure at Default (EAD)
The outstanding balance at the reporting date adjusted for subsequent realisations in the case of Gold Loan, is considered as EAD 
by the Company. Considering that the PD determined above factors in amount at default, there is no separate requirement to 
estimate EAD.
The Company uses historical information where available to determine PD. Considering the different products and schemes, the 
Company has bifurcated its loan portfolio into various pools. For certain pools where historical information is available, the PD is 
calculated using Incremental NPA approach considering fresh slippage of past 6 years. For those pools where historical information 
is not available, the PD rates as stated by external reporting agencies is considered.
While estimating the expected credit loss, the company reviews macro-economic developments occurring in the economy and 
the market it operates in. Forward looking information is considered in addition to historical default rates to assess the probability 
of default for Stage 1 and Stage 2 of Loan contracts since it’s initial recognition and its measurement of ECL. Accordingly, the 
company has assessed that the macro-economic variables that may impact credit risk are GDP growth, Interest and Inflation rates, 
Unemployment rates etc. Post management overlay, the PD percentages are mentioned below:
Segment/Portfolio
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage I
Stage II*
Stage III
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
1)	
Gold Loan-Normal risk**
11.18%
11.18%
100.00%
12.97%
12.97%
100.00%
2)	
Vehicle Loan
	
CV
6.51%
16.78%
100.00%
6.06%
14.63%
100.00%
	
BUS
9.08%
19.38%
100.00%
8.92%
17.02%
100.00%
	
FE
5.52%
18.12%
100.00%
3.79%
13.89%
100.00%
	
CAR/AUTO
4.59%
13.65%
100.00%
4.10%
11.12%
100.00%
	
TW
8.68%
14.23%
100.00%
7.55%
12.31%
100.00%
3)	
SME Loan
6.47%
6.76%
100.00%
5.68%
14.48%
100.00%
4)	
Other verticals
5.20%
20.68%
100.00%
3.50%
15.83%
100.00%
5)	
Other verticals 
(unsecured)
5.20%
20.68%
100.00%
3.50%
15.83%
100.00%
6)	
Onlending, Corporate Finance and Project and Industrial Finance Loan, external ratings or internal evaluation with a management 
overlay for each customer.
7)	
Personal Loans and other verticals, external ratings or internal evaluation with a management overlay for each customer 
industry segment.
* Excluding restructured loans, where in Vehicle loan Stage II restructured loans for CV -80% ,BUS -75% and CAR - 60% as at 31st March, 2025.
** Excludes portfolio where PD has been considered at 100%
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
267
In case of Gold loans, incremental NPA is considered after taking into account auctions during the year since such cases are auctioned 
and total dues are recovered even before the account turns NPA.
Loss Given Default
The Company determines its recovery rates by analysing the recovery trends over different periods of time after a loan has defaulted. 
Based on its analysis of historical trends, homogenous nature of the loans etc,  the Company has assessed that significant recoveries 
happen in the year in which default has occurred.Recoveries from all the phases like normal collections, auction collections, 
repossession sale as well as expected realization from collateral are considered while computing the LGD rates for each loan portfolio. 
For different stages such as stage 1,stage 2 & stage 3 portfolios, we are applying same LGD rate except in case of loss assets and 
unsecured loans in stage 3 which is at 100%.
Segment/Portfolio
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
1) 	
Gold Loan*
3.76%
2.94%
2) 	
Vehicle Loan
	
CV
13.22%
15.79%
	
BUS
13.77%
16.22%
	
FE
20.91%
13.73%
	
CAR/AUTO
17.11%
9.98%
	
TW
20.05%
22.65%
3) 	
SME Loan
26.55%
27.18%
4) 	
Onlending
60%
60%
5)	
Corporate Finance
100%
100%
6)	
Project Industry Finance (PIF)
50%
50%
7)	
Other Verticals
2.39%
7.22%
8)	
Other Verticals (unsecured)
82.94%
73.62%
In all classified ‘Loss Assets’, LGD has been considered as 100%.
*In case of Gold Loan  the Loan To Value(LTV), at the time of disbursement  is below 75% (As per the RBI norms) and the remaining 
value (25%) of asset held by the company acts as a margin of safety, protecting the company  against volatility in asset price.LTV is 
one of the factor for gradation of risk. Also it reflects in the fixing of interest rates of each type of loans/ schemes. Normally fixing 
higher interest rate for loans having higher LTV% and vice versa.
LGD Rates have been computed internally based on the discounted recoveries in NPA accounts that are closed/ written off/ 
repossessed and upgraded during the year. LGD rates for SME, corporate loans and other loans is considered based on proxy FIRB 
rates for secured loans.
In estimating LGD, the company reviews macro-economic developments taking place in the economy. Based on internal evaluation, 
company has provided a management overlay in LGD computed for Vehicle and SME portfolios.
The Company has applied management overlays to the ECL Model to consider the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the provision. 
The adjustment to the probability of default has been assessed considering the likelihood of increased credit risk and consequential 
default due to the pandemic. The impact on collateral values is also assessed for determination of adjustment to the loss given default 
and reasonable haircuts are applied wherever necessary. The number of days past due shall exclude the moratorium period for the 
purposes of asset classification as per the Company’s policy
As per the RBI guidelines , the ECL policy has been approved by Audit Committe and the Board.Modifications to the ECL model, if 
any, is approved by the Board. As part of the management overlays, as per the approved ECL policy, the management has adjusted 
the underlying PD as mentioned above and in case of corporate loan by downgrading the ratings to one level lower) and LGD as 
computed by ECL Model as mentioned above depending on the nature of the portfolio/borrower, the management’s estimate of the 
future stress and risk and available market information. Refer note 5.2(vii) to the financial statements.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
268
Asset & Liability management
Disclosures as required in Annex VII of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 
dated 19th October, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) 
Directions, 2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Asset and Liability Management (ALM) is defined as the practice of managing risks arising due to mismatches in the asset and liabilities. 
Company’s funding consists of both long term as well as short term sources with different maturity patterns and varying interest 
rates. On the other hand, the asset book also comprises of loans of different duration and interest rates. Maturity mismatches are 
therefore common and has an impact on the liquidity and profitability of the company. It is necessary for Company’s to monitor and 
manage the assets and liabilities in such a manner to minimize mismatches and keep them within reasonable limits.
The objective of this policy is to create an institutional mechanism to compute and monitor periodically the maturity pattern of the 
various liabilities and assets of Company to (a) ascertain in percentage terms the nature and extent of mismatch in different maturity 
buckets, especially the 1-30/31days bucket, which would indicate the structural liquidity (b) the extent and nature of cumulative 
mismatch in different buckets indicative of short term dynamic liquidity and (c) the residual maturity pattern of repricing of assets and 
liabilities which would show the likely impact of movement of interest rate in either direction on profitability. This policy will guide 
the ALM system in Company.
The scope of ALM function can be described as follows:
 - Liquidity risk management
 - Management of market risks
 - Others
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company may not meet its financial obligations. Liquidity risk arises due to the unavailability 
of adequate funds at an appropriate cost or tenure. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity 
and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Company consistently generates sufficient cash flows from 
operating and financial activities to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.  Our resource mobilisation team sources 
funds from multiple sources, including from banks, financial institutions and capital markets to maintain a healthy mix of sources. 
The resource mobilisation team is responsible for diversifying fund raising sources, managing interest rate risks and maintaining 
a strong relationship with banks, financial institutions, mutual funds, insurance companies, other domestic and foreign financial 
institutions and rating agencies to ensure the liquidity risk is well addressed.
The table below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial assets and liabilities as on:-
Maturity pattern of assets and liabilities as on 31st March, 2025
Particulars
 0 to 7 
days 
 8 to 14 
days 
 Over 14 
days to one 
month 
 Over one 
month to 
2 months 
 Over 2 
months to 
3 months 
 Over 3 
Months upto 
6 months 
 Over 6 
Months 
upto 1 year 
 Over 1 
year upto 
3 years 
 Over 3 
years upto 
5 years 
 Over 5 
years 
 Total* 
Borrowings
 1,833.28 
 3,103.91 
 5,585.27  22,896.03 
 18,659.78 
 28,100.43 
 44,193.43  46,919.29 
 12,187.32 
 -  183,478.74 
Foreign Currency Term 
Loan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 518.38  22,410.49 
 2,496.00 
 - 
 25,424.86 
Debt Security
 - 
 - 
 993.09 
 798.26 
 1,967.68 
 6,706.29 
 4,307.75  9,150.94  16,670.68  20,960.68 
 61,555.37 
Subordinated Debts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Advances
 1,607.76 
 2,085.61 
 6,846.40 
 23,751.93 
 15,385.79 
 29,969.06  198,973.38  31,227.85  17,993.53 
 6,188.88  334,030.18 
Investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 29.87 
 1,527.87 
 - 
 1,505.75 
 - 
 -  15,155.04 
 18,218.53 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
269
Maturity pattern of assets and liabilities as on 31st March, 2024
Particulars
 0 to 7 
days 
 8 to 14 
days 
 Over 14 
days to one 
month 
 Over one 
month to 2 
months 
 Over 2 
months to 
3 months 
 Over 3 
Months upto 
6 months 
 Over 6 
Months 
upto 1 year 
 Over 1 
year upto 
3 years 
 Over 3 
years upto 
5 years 
 Over 5 
years 
 Total* 
Borrowings
 1,876.62 
 1,994.60 
 1,780.10 
 14,077.43 
 41,367.38 
 30,199.46  26,579.58 38,207.33 
 12,175.70 
 -  168,258.20 
Foreign Currency Term 
Loan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 909.10 
 909.10 
 2,234.10  5,045.93 
 2,972.08 
 - 
 12,070.31 
Debt Security
 - 
 - 
 1,057.62 
 - 
 8,357.10 
 1,139.53 
 6,791.35  11,911.84  3,000.00  12,082.38 
 44,339.81 
Subordinated Debts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Advances
 741.65 
 734.42 
 2,886.66  22,520.86 
 14,160.04 
 35,407.63  160,346.01  32,910.43 
 17,479.44 
 3,401.77  290,588.92 
Investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 30.90 
 23.49 
 - 
 - 
 3,016.10 
 - 14,585.22 
 17,655.71 
*Amount represents net balance after the adjustments on account of applicable Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
Market Risk
Market Risk is the risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
factor. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the interest rates, credit, liquidity, and other 
market changes. The Company is exposed to three types of market risk as follows:
Foreign Exchange Risk (FX Risk)
Forex Risk is a risk that exists when a financial transaction is denominated in a currency other than the domestic currency of the 
company. Any appreciation/depreciation of the base currency or the depreciation/appreciation of the denominated currency will affect 
the cash flows emanating from that transaction. The company has fully hedged the forex risk by derivative instruments.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
We are subject to interest rate risk, principally because we lend to clients at fixed interest rates and for periods that may differ from 
our funding sources, while our borrowings are at both fixed and variable interest rates for different periods.  We assess and manage 
our interest rate risk by managing our assets and liabilities. Our Asset Liability Management Committee evaluates asset liability 
management, and ensures that all significant mismatches, if any, are being managed appropriately.
The Company has Board Approved Asset Liability Management (ALM) policy for managing interest rate risk and policy for determining 
the interest rate to be charged on the loans given.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the interest rates on the portion of borrowings 
affected. With all other variables held constant, the profit before taxes affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings, 
as follows:
Finance Cost
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
0.5% Increase
 1,213.33 
1117.03
Price Risk
The Company’s exposure to price risk is not material. The drop in gold prices is unlikely to have a significant impact on asset quality 
of the company since the disbursement LTV is below 75%  and  average portfolio LTV as on the reporting period was 62% to 65% 
only.However the sustained decrease in market price may cause for decrease in the size of our Gold Loan Portfolio and the interest 
income.Management monitors the gold prices and other loans on regular basis.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
270
Operational and business risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to 
operate effectively, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial 
loss. The Company cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but it endeavours to manage these risks through a control 
framework and by monitoring and responding to potential risks. Controls include effective segregation of duties, access, authorisation 
and reconciliation procedures, staff education and assessment processes, such as the use of internal audit. A Risk  Management 
Committee  comprising  representatives  of  the  Senior  Management,  reviews matters  relating  to  operational and business  risk, 
including  corrective  and  remedial  actions  as  regards  people  and processes.
Note 46: Expenditure in foreign currency
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Expense in connection with US Dollar Bond issue
 243.94 
 - 
Survellance and Trustee Fees
 11.83 
 42.43 
Bank Charges & Interest
 2,849.10 
 104.09 
Travelling expesnses
 0.68 
 0.15 
Membership & Other Fees
 - 
 6.32 
Total
 3,105.55 
 152.99 
Note 47: Loans and advances in the nature of loans given to subsidiaries and associates and firms/ companies in 
which directors are interested
Loan given to wholly owned subsidiary:
a) 	 Manappuram Home Finance Limited
	
Balance as at 31st March, 2025 : `Nil (31st March, 2024: ` Nil)
	
Maximum amount outstanding during the year ` 250 Mn (31st March, 2024: ` 500Mn)	
	
	
	
	
	
Maximum amount of undrawn credit line available with the subsidiary during the year: 1500 Mn (31st March, 2024: 1500Mn)
b) 	 Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
	
Balance as at 31st March, 2025 : `Nil (31st March, 2024: `Nil)
	
Maximum amount outstanding during the year ` Nil (31st March, 2024: `2500 Mn)
	
Maximum amount of undrawn credit line available with the subsidiary during the year: 5000 Mn (31st March 2024: 2500Mn)
Loan given to companies in which directors are interested: Nil (31st March, 2024: `Nil)
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
271
Note 48 (a): Gold and other loan portfolio classification and provision for non performing assets
Particulars
Gross Loan Outstanding*
Provision For Assets
Net Loan Outstanding
31-Mar-25
31-Mar-24
31-Mar-25
31-Mar-24
31-Mar-25
31-Mar-24
Secured Loans
A) 	
Gold Loan
	
Standard Asset
 242,215.44 
 203,115.60 
 969.96 
 813.41 
 241,245.49 
 202,302.19 
	
Sub Standard Asset
 3,229.18 
 2,767.93 
 322.92 
 276.79 
 2,906.27 
 2,491.14 
	
Doubtful Asset
 1,075.17 
 767.14 
 299.48 
 246.89 
 775.69 
 520.25 
	
Loss Asset
 55.67 
 63.91 
 55.67 
 63.91 
 - 
 (0.00)
	
Total - A
 246,575.47 
 206,714.58 
 1,648.02 
 1,401.01 
 244,927.45 
 205,313.57 
B) 	
Other Loans
	
Standard Asset
 68,034.62 
 66,167.48 
 274.15 
 275.09 
 67,760.47 
 65,892.39 
	
Sub Standard Asset
 3,102.06 
 1,035.61 
 320.85 
 109.85 
 2,781.21 
 925.76 
	
Doubtful Asset
 1,177.46 
 470.85 
 346.78 
 137.74 
 830.67 
 333.11 
	
Loss Asset
 1.23 
 41.26 
 1.29 
 41.26 
 (0.06)
 (0.00)
	
Total - B
 72,315.36 
 67,715.20 
 943.07 
 563.94 
 71,372.30 
 67,151.26 
	
Total  (A+B)
 318,890.83 
 274,429.77 
 2,591.09 
 1,964.95 
 316,299.74 
 272,464.84 
Unsecured Loans
A) 	
Other Loans
	
Standard Asset
 2,739.65 
 6,062.24 
 11.21 
 24.88 
 2,728.44 
 6,037.36 
	
Sub Standard Asset
 260.13 
 314.37 
 26.47 
 31.44 
 233.66 
 282.93 
	
Doubtful Asset
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
Loss Asset
 4.78 
 5.51 
 4.78 
 5.51 
 - 
 - 
	
Total (C)
 3,004.56 
 6,382.12 
 42.46 
 61.82 
 2,962.10 
 6,320.30 
	
Total Loan (A+B+C)
 321,895.39 
280,811.90
 2,633.55 
2,026.77
 319,261.84 
278,785.13
*Principal outstanding
Note 48 (b): Provision for diminution in value of investments
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Provision for diminution in value of investments -  Refer Note 11
 - 
 - 
Note 49: Investments
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
1) 	
Value of Investments
	
i) 	
Gross Value of Investments
	
	
(a) 	 In India 
 18,218.53 
 17,655.71 
	
	
(b) 	 Outside India 
 - 
 - 
	
ii) 	
Provisions for Depreciation
	
	
(a) 	 In India 
 - 
 - 
	
	
(b) 	 Outside India 
 - 
 - 
	
iii) 	
Net Value of Investments
	
	
(a) 	 In India 
 18,218.53 
 17,655.71 
	
	
(b) 	 Outside India 
 - 
 - 
2) 	
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments
	
i) 	
Opening balance
 - 
-
	
ii) 	
Add : Provisions made during the year
-
 - 
	
iii) 	
Less : Write-off / write-back of excess provisions during the year
 - 
-
	
iv) 	
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
272
Note 50 
(a): Disclosures relating to Securitisation		
	
	
	
As per RBI guidelines on Securitisation RBI/DOR/2021-22/85 DOR.STR.REC.53/21.04.177/2021-22 dated 24th September, 2021 
and updated on 05th December, 2022 the details of securitisation are given below:
Particulars
31st March, 2025 
Numbers / Amount 
31st March, 2024 
Numbers / Amount
(i)	
No of SPVs sponsored by the NBFC for securitisation transactions
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPVs Sponsored
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Total amount of exposures retained by the NBFC to comply with MRR as on 
the date of Balance sheet
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions Other than MRR as on the 
date of Balance sheet
 - 
 - 
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Total number of loan assets securitized during the year
 - 
 2,684 
Book value of loan assets securitized during the year
 - 
 1,091.35 
Sale consideration received during the year
 - 
 982.22 
Vehicle Loans Subordinated as Credit Enhancement on Assets Derecognised
 - 
 - 
Gain / (loss) on the securitization transaction recognised in P&L
 - 
 - 
Gain / (loss) on the securitization transactions deferred
 - 
 - 
Quantum of Credit Enhancement provided on the transactions in the form of 
deposits
 - 
 109.14 
Quantum of Credit Enhancement as at year end
 - 
 109.14 
Interest spread Recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the Year
 - 
9.34%
Note 50 
(b): Details of Assignment transactions
As per RBI guidelines on Securitisation RBI/DOR/2021-22/86 DOR.STR.REC.51/21.04.048/2021-22 dated September 24, 2021 and 
updated on December 28, 2023 the details of Transfer of Loan Exposure are given below:
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
(i)	
Number of Accounts
 10,101 
 10,079 
(ii)	
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts sold
 7,567.88 
 6,678.75 
(iii)	
Aggregate consideration
 6,811.09 
 6,010.88 
(iv)	 Aggregate consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred in earlier 
years
                                    -  
 - 
(v)	
Aggregate gain / loss over net book value
 465.01 
 576.21 
 Note 50 
(c ): Details of non-performing financial assets purchased / sold - Nil
Note 51: Off - balance Sheet SPVs sponsored
The compant has not sponsored any off- balance sheet SPV which are required to be consolidated as per accounting norms.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
273
Note 52: Exposure 
Note 52 (a): Exposure to real estate sector
Category
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Direct Exposure 
a) 	
Residential Mortgages 
	
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be 
occupied by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure would also will include 
non-fund based (NFB) limits.
 7,768.46 
 4,807.19 
b) 	
Commercial Real Estate 
	
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estates (office buildings, 
retail space, multiple purpose commercial premises, multi-family residential 
buildings, multi-tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, 
hotels, land acquisition, development and construction, etc.). Exposure would 
not include non-fund based (NFB) limits. 
 880.51 
 568.85 
c) 	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised 
exposures: 
i) 	
Residential  
ii) 	
Commercial Real Estate
 - 
 - 
Indirect Exposure 
Exposure to Manappuram Home finance Limited (Wholly owned subsidiary)*
 4,072.90 
 3,572.90 
Loan given to other Housing Finance Companies.
 918.68 
 995.53 
Total exposure to real estate sector
 13,640.55 
 9,944.47 
*Indirect exposure includes undrawn limit provided. 
Note 52 (b): Exposure to Capital Market
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
i)	
direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures 
and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not 
exclusively invested in corporate debt;
 13,507.90 
 12,936.44 
ii)	
advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities   or   on   
clean   basis   to   individuals   for investment in shares (including IPOs / 
ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and units of equity-
oriented mutual funds;
 - 
 - 
Total Exposure to Capital Market
 13,507.90 
 12,936.44 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
274
Note 52 (C): Sectoral Exposure
Sector
Current Year
Previous Year
**Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet and 
off-balancesheet 
exposure) (` million)
Gross 
NPA's 
(` million)
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure in 
that sector
**Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet and 
off-balancesheet 
exposure) (` million)
Gross 
NPA's 
(` million)
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure in 
that sector
1. 	
Agriculture and Allied Activities
 2,898.59 
 288.11 
9.94%
 2,448.65 
 109.27 
4.46%
2. 	
Industry
Total of Industry
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3. 	
Services
i. 	
Transport Operators
 17,196.15 
 1,211.27 
7.04%
 18,276.85 
 525.38 
2.87%
ii. 	
Loans to NBFC's
 4,789.08 
 - 
0.00%
 9,885.53 
 41.26 
0.42%
iii. 	
Commercial Real estate
 920.54 
 60.15 
6.53%
 568.85 
 42.86 
7.54%
Total of Services
 22,905.75 
 1,271.42 
5.55%
28,731.23
609.50
2.12%
4. 	
Personal Loans 
i. 	
Vehicle Loans 
 22,621.58 
 1,317.06 
5.82%
 17,819.98 
 453.56 
2.55%
ii. 	
Loans Against Security of Gold 
 246,575.47 
 4,360.02 
1.77%
 206,563.18 
 3,598.97 
1.74%
iii.	
Others 
 599.32 
 103.83 
17.32%
 2,524.71 
 315.78 
12.51%
Total of Personal Loans
 269,796.36 
 5,780.91 
2.14%
 226,907.87 
 4,368.31 
1.93%
5. 	
Others if any (please specify)
i.	
Other Loans
26,294.68
1,565.25
5.95%
22,724.15
 379.47 
1.61%
26,294.68
1,565.25
5.95%
22,724.15
379.47
1.61%
Total
321,895.39
8,905.68
2.77%
2,80,811.90
5,466.58
1.94%
**Exposure Includes : Principle Outstanding, 
Note 53: Details of Single Borrower Limit (SGL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL) exceeded by the NBFC
The Company has not exceeded the prudential exposure limits during the current and previous year.  
Note 54: Provisions and Contingencies
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Break-up of Provision and contingencies in statement of profit and loss 
Provision towards NPA
477.87 
216.13 
Provision made towards Income Tax
 6,124.20 
 5,670.79 
Provision for litigation
(22.97)
 16.41 
Provision for Loan commitments
2.98 
 0.25 
Provision for Standard Assets
 275.66 
 122.87 
Provision for employee benefits
74.03 
3.25 
Provision for other assets
 (3.55)
 (21.98)
Note 55: Draw down from Reserves
There are no drawdown reserves from statutory reserves during the year.
Note 56: Concentration of Advances, Exposures and NPAs
i) 	
Concentration of Advances
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers
 9,997.04 
 9,735.41 
Percentage of advances to twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the 
Company*
3.04%
3.41%
	
*Advances includes undrawn amount also	
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
275
ii) 	 Concentration of Exposures
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers/customers
 24,994.65 
 24,234.29 
Percentage of exposures to twenty largest borrowers/customers to total 
exposure of the Company on borrowers/customers
7.28%
8.07%
(iii)	 Top 10  Borrowings
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Top 10 Borrowings as on reporting date
 166,798.11 
 157,626.63 
Percentage of Top 10 Borrowings to  total  borrowings of the Company as on 
the reporting date 
61.67%
70.16%
(iv)	 Funding concentration based on significant counter party (Both deposits and borrowings)	
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Borrowings
Number of Significant counter parties
21
21
Amount In (Mn)
 191,788.92 
 202,818.09 
Percentage of funding concentration to total deposits
Nil
Nil
Percentage of funding concentration to total libilities
70.91%
90.27%
(v)	 Top 20 Large Deposits
	
Not Applicable
(Vi)	 Institutional set up for liquidity risk management 
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has an overall responsibility and oversight for the management of all the risks, including 
liquidity risk.  The Board approves the governance structure, policies, strategy and the risk tolerance limit for the management 
of liquidity risk.  The Board of Directors approves the constitution of Risk Management Committee (RMC) for the effective 
supervision and management of various aspects including liquidity risks faced by the company. The meetings of RMC are held 
at quarterly interval The Board of Directors also approves constitution of Asset Liability Committee (ALCO),  consisting of the 
Company’s top management which functions as the strategic decision-making  body  for  the  asset-liability  management  of 
the  Company  from  risk-return perspective and within the risk appetite and tolerance limits approved by the Board.  The role 
of the ALCO also includes periodic revision of interest rates,  diversification of source of funding and its mix, maintenance of 
enough liquidity and investment of surplus funds. ALCO meetings are held once in a quarter or more frequently as warranted 
from time to time.  The  minutes  of  ALCO  meetings  are  placed  before  the  RMC  and  the  Board  of Directors in its next 
meeting for its perusal/approval/ratification.
(vii) 	Funding Concentration based on significant Instrument / Product
Name of Instrument / Product 
As at 
31st March, 2025
% Of Total 
Liabilities
As at 
31st March, 2024
% of Total 
Liabilities
Secured NCD 
 32,373.82 
11.97%
 35,982.71 
16.05%
Borrowings from Banks & FI's
 208,850.79 
77.24%
 179,865.55 
80.22%
Subordinated Debt 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
CP
 2,941.43 
1.09%
 8,357.10 
3.73%
ECB - Senior Secured Notes
 26,240.11 
9.70%
 - 
0.00%
Total
 270,406.15 
100.00%
 224,205.35 
100.00%
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
276
(viii)Stock Ratios
Stock Ratios 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Commercial Paper as a % of Total Public  Funds
1.09%
3.72%
Commercial Paper as a % of Total  Liabilities
0.74%
2.46%
Commercial Paper as a % of Total  Assets
0.74%
2.46%
Non Convertible Debentures(NCDs)(Original Maturity of Less than one year) as 
a % of Total Public Funds
 - 
 - 
Non Convertible Debentures(NCDs)(Original Maturity of Less than one year) as 
a % of Total Liabilities
 - 
 - 
Non Convertible Debentures(NCDs)(Original Maturity of Less than one year) as 
a % of Total  Assets
 - 
 - 
Other Short Term Liabilities as a % of Total Public Funds
0.93%
1.13%
Other Short Term Liabilities as a % of Total Liabilities
0.63%
0.75%
Other Short Term Liabilities as a % of Total Assets
0.63%
0.75%
(ix)	 Exposure to top four NPA Accounts 
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Total exposure to top four NPA accounts
 379.02 
 98.35 
(x) 	 Sector-wise NPAs
Sector*
Percentage of NPAs to Total Advances in 
that Sector
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Agriculture & allied activities
9.89%
4.46%
MSME
4.80%
2.07%
Corporate borrowers
7.08%
0.86%
Services
 - 
 - 
Unsecured personal loans
8.74%
4.95%
Auto loans
6.41%
2.71%
Other personal loans
1.92%
1.74%
	
* The percentage is on principal outstanding
(xi) 	 Movement of NPAs
Particulars 
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
I) 	
Net NPAs to Net Advances (%)
2.36%
1.63%
II)	
Movement of NPAs (Gross)
	
a)	
Opening balance 
 5,466.58 
3,210.93
	
b)	
Addition during the year 
 6,815.60 
4,138.23
	
c)	
Reduction during the year 
 (3,376.50)
 (1,882.57)
	
d)	
Closing balance 
 8,905.68 
5,466.58
III) 	 Movement of NPAs (Net)
	
a) 	
Opening balance 
 4,553.19 
2,554.36
	
b) 	
Addition during the year 
 5,902.60 
3,622.81
	
c) 	
Reduction during the year 
 (2,928.34)
 (1,617.72)
	
d) 	
Closing balance 
 7,527.44 
4,553.19
IV) 	 Movement of provisions for NPAs   
(excluding  provisions  on standard assets)
	
a) 	
Opening balance 
 913.39 
656.56
	
b) 	
Provision made during the year 
 913.01 
515.41
	
c) 	
Write-off/write-back of excess provisions
 (448.16)
 (264.86)
	
d) 	
Closing balance 
 1,378.24 
913.39
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
277
Note 57: Miscellaneous 
i) 	
Registration obtained from other financial sector regulators
Regulator
Registration No.
Reserve Bank of India
Certificate of Registration No. B-16.00029
Ministry of Corporate Affairs
Corporate Identification No. L65910KL1992PLC006623
Authorised Dealer under FEMA Act, 1999 (AD II License)
KOC-ADII-0041-2023
ii) 	 Disclosure of Penalties imposed by RBI and other regulators
	
a) 	
Imposed by BSE and NSE during the year ended March 31 2025 is `3,11,520/- and during the year ended March 31 2024 
is `34,220/-.
	
b) 	
Penalty amounted to ` 61,50,000/- have been imposed by RBI during the year ended 31st March,2025 and during the 
year ended  31st March,2024 is `6,278,000/-.
iii) 	 Ratings assigned by credit rating agencies and migration of ratings during the year
Credit rating Agency
Type of Facility
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Rating
Rating
Brickwork 
Non-Convertible debentures
BWR AA(Stable)
BWR AA(Stable)
CRISIL 
Bank Loan Facility Long term
CRISIL AA/Stable
CRISIL AA/Stable
Bank Loan Facility Short term
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL A1+
Non-Convertible Debenture
CRISIL AA/Stable
CRISIL AA/Stable
Commercial Paper
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL A1+
Bank Loan Facility Long Term
CARE AA Stable
CARE AA Stable
CARE
Bank Loan Facility Short Term
CARE A1+
CARE A1+
Non-Convertible Debentures
CARE AA Stable
CARE AA Stable
Commercial Paper
CARE A1+
CARE A1+
International Credit Rating - 
Credit Rating Agency
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Rating
Rating
S&P Global Ratings
 BB - /Stable 
 BB - /Stable/ B 
FITCH
 BB - /Stable 
 BB - /Stable 
iv)	 Net profit or loss for the period, prior period items and changes in accounting policies.
	
a)	
There are no prior period items which are impacting Company’s currrent year Profit and Loss.
Note 58: Customer Complaints	
Summary information on complaints received by the company from customers and from the offices of Ombudsman
Sl.No.
Particulars
Current Year 
(2024 - 25)
Previous Year 
(2023 - 24)
Complaints received by the NBFC from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
 55 
 141 
2
Number of complaints received during the year
 14,826 
 8,047 
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
 14,525 
 8,133 
3.1
Of which, number of complaints rejected by the NBFC
 67 
 59 
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
 356 
 55 
Maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from Office of Ombudsman
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from Office of 
Ombudsman
 121 
 196 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
278
Sl.No.
Particulars
Current Year 
(2024 - 25)
Previous Year 
(2023 - 24)
5.1
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the NBFC by Office of 
Ombudsman
 118 
 192 
5.2
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/
advisories issued by Office of Ombudsman
 3 
 4 
5.3
5.3  Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by Office 
of Ombudsman against the NBFC
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time  
(other than those appealed)
 - 
 - 
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 
(Previously The Ombudsman Scheme for Non-Banking Financial Companies, 2018) and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
* It shall only be applicable to NBFCS which are included under The Reserve Bank - Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 20
2) 	 Top five grounds2  of complaints received by the NBFCs from customers
Ground Of Complaints 
(i.e.complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the beginng 
of the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/
decrease in 
the number of 
complaints received 
over the previous 
year
Number of 
Complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
Poor Customer Service
24
2649
325%
50
2
2
Credit Information Related
18
1433
25%
64
4
3
KYC Updation Related
 - 
1300
100%
12
0
4
Profile Modification
 - 
1065
100%
18
1
5
Online Payment Related
 - 
930
100%
18
0
6
Others
13
7449
4542%
194
37
Previous Year
1
Credit Information Related
30
5685
235%
18
0
2
Gold Damage or Missing
8
155
101%
3
0
3
Surplus Related
29
622
59%
2
0
4
Poor Customer Service
50
816
63%
24
1
5
SMS or Email or Calls Related
18
605
57%
7
0
6
Others
6
164
123%
1
0
Disclosures as required in Annex VII of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 
dated October 19, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) 
Directions, 2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Note 59: Derivatives
As at 31st March, 2025, the Company has recognised a net Market to Market (MTM) gain of `352.12 Mn (31st March, 2024 `82.58Mn 
loss) relating to derivative contracts entered to hedge the foreign currency risk of future interest payment on fixed rate foreign 
currency denominated bond and foreign currency term loan,  repayment of fixed rate foreign currency denominated bond and loans 
designated as cash flow hedges, in Hedging Reserve Account as part of the Shareholders’ funds. Refer to Note no. 17‘ Derivative 
Financial Instruments’.
Details of outstanding derivative contracts as at the year end.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
279
Type of Derivatives
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
No of contracts
Value (USD)
No of contracts
Value (USD)
Forward Contracts entered into hedge 
the currency risk of future interest 
payments
8
 362,460,104 
5
 43,847,823 
Currency Swaps
6
 297,000,000 
3
 100,000,000 
Type of Derivatives
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
No of contracts
Value ` In million
No of contracts
Value ` In million
Forward Contracts entered into hedge 
the currency risk of future interest 
payments
8
 30,278.10 
5
 3,657.13 
Currency Swaps
6
 25,246.58 
3
 8,340.50 
Disclosure required as per RBI requirements;
Forward rate agreement / Interest rate swap
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2026
i)	
The notional principal of swap agreements
 25,246.58 
 8,340.50 
ii)	
The notional principal of forward rate agreements
 30,278.10 
 3,657.13 
ii)	
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfil their 
obligations under the agreements.
 - 
 - 
iii)	
Collateral required by the NBFC upon entering into swaps
 3,750.00 
 2,600.00 
iv)	
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swap
 - 
 - 
v)	
The fair value of the swap agreements 
 108.53 
 (118.55)
vi)	
The fair value of the forward rate agreements
 192.65 
 8.33 
Exchange Traded interest rate (IR) derivatives : NIL
Disclosures on risk exposure of derivatives
Qualitative disclosures
The Company has a Board approved policy in dealing with derivative transactions. Derivative transaction consists of hedging of foreign 
exchange transactions, which includes interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options and forwards. The Company undertakes 
forward contracts for hedging on-balance sheet assets and liabilities. Such outstanding derivative transactions are accounted on 
accrual basis over the life of the underlying instrument. The Finance Resource Committee and Risk Management Committee closely 
monitors such transactions and reviews the risks involved.
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Swaps
Forward 
Agreements
Swaps
Forward 
Agreements
i) 	
Derivatives (Notional principal amount)
For Hedging
 25,246.58 
 30,278.10 
 8,340.50 
 3,657.13 
ii) 	
Marked to Market Positions
	
a)	
 Asset (+)
 108.53 
 192.65 
 - 
 8.33 
	
b) 	
Liability (-)
 - 
 - 
 (118.55) 
 - 
iii) 	
Credit Exposure
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv) 	
Unhedged Exposure
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
280
Note 60: Disclosures as required in Annex II-A of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.
No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 19th October, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking 
Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent 
applicable.	
In accordance with the regulatory guidance on implementation of Ind AS issued by RBI on March 13, 2020, the company has computed 
provisions as per Income Recognition Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRACP) norms issued by RBI solely for comparative 
purposes as specified therein. A comparison between provisions required under IRACP and impairment allowances made under Ind 
AS 109 is given below:
Asset Classification as per RBI 
Norms
As at March 31 2025
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind AS 
109
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount as 
per Ind AS*
Loss 
Allowances 
(Provisions) 
as required 
under Ind AS 
109
Net Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between 
Ind AS 109 
provisions 
and IRACP 
norms
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)=(3)-(4)
(6)
(7) = (4)-(6)
Performing Assets
Standard
Stage 1
 306,354.88 
 1,590.66 
 304,764.22 
 1,228.70 
 361.96 
Stage 2
 6,634.83 
 133.65 
 6,501.18 
 26.61 
 107.04 
Subtotal for standard
 312,989.71 
 1,724.31 
 311,265.40 
 1,255.31 
 469.00 
Non-Performing Assets (NPA)
Substandard
Stage 3
 6,591.32 
 859.74 
 5,731.62 
 670.24 
 189.46 
Doubtful upto 1 year
Stage 3
 1,413.36 
 125.01 
 1,288.35 
 301.97 
 (176.96)
1 to 3 years
Stage 3
 602.99 
 78.16 
 524.83 
 221.63 
 (143.47)
More than 3 years
Stage 3
 236.28 
 23.79 
 212.49 
 122.66 
 (98.87)
Subtotal for doubtful
 2,252.63 
 226.96 
 2,025.67 
 646.26 
 (419.30)
Loss
Stage 3
 61.74 
 61.74 
 - 
 61.74 
 - 
Subtotal for NPA
 8,905.68 
 1,148.44 
 7,757.29 
 1,378.24 
 (229.84)
Other items such as guarantees, 
loan commitments, etc. which are 
in the scope of Ind AS 109 but not 
covered under current Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification 
and Provisioning (IRACP) norms
Stage 1
 6,730.07 
 3.76 
 6,726.32 
 - 
 3.76 
Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Subtotal for other items
 6,730.07 
 3.76 
 6,726.32 
 - 
 3.76 
Total
Stage 1
 313,084.95 
 1,594.42 
 311,490.54 
 1,228.70 
 365.72 
Stage 2
 6,634.83 
 133.65 
 6,501.18 
 26.61 
 107.04 
Stage 3
 8,905.68 
 1,148.40 
 7,757.29 
 1,378.24 
 (229.84)
Total
 328,625.47 
 2,876.46 
 325,749.01 
 2,633.55 
 242.92 
*Principal Outstanding
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
281
Asset Classification as per RBI Norms
As at 31st March, 2024
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind AS 
109
Gross Carrying 
Amount as per 
Ind AS*
Loss 
Allowances 
(Provisions) 
as required 
under Ind AS 
109
Net Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between 
Ind AS 109 
provisions and 
IRACP norms
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)=(3)-(4)
(6)
(7) = (4)-(6)
Performing Assets
Standard
Stage 1
 273,065.46 
 1,373.69 
 271,691.77 
 1,098.80 
 274.89 
Stage 2
 2,279.88 
 77.90 
 2,201.98 
 14.58 
 63.32 
Subtotal for standard
 275,345.34 
 1,451.59 
 273,893.75 
 1,113.38 
 338.21 
Non-Performing Assets (NPA)
Substandard
Stage 3
 4,117.90 
 452.67 
 3,665.23 
 418.08 
 34.59 
Doubtful upto 1 year
Stage 3
 485.85 
 40.34 
 445.51 
 102.13 
 (61.79)
1 to 3 years
Stage 3
 539.41 
 60.06 
 479.35 
 175.71 
 (115.65)
More than 3 years
Stage 3
 212.72 
 7.03 
 205.69 
 106.79 
 (99.76)
Subtotal for doubtful
 1,237.98 
 107.43 
 1,130.55 
 384.64 
 (277.20)
Loss
Stage 3
 110.68 
 110.68 
 (0.00)
 110.68 
 0.00 
Subtotal for NPA
 5,466.56 
 670.78 
 4,795.78 
 913.39 
 (242.60)
Other 
items 
such 
as 
guarantees, 
loan 
commitments, etc. which are in the scope of 
Ind AS 109 but not covered under current 
Income Recognition, Asset Classification and 
Provisioning (IRACP) norms
Stage 1
 4,000.00 
 0.78 
 3,999.22 
 - 
 0.78 
Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Subtotal for other items
 4,000.00 
 0.78 
 3,999.22 
 - 
 0.78 
Total
Stage 1
 277,065.46 
 1,374.47 
 275,690.99 
 1,098.80 
 275.67 
Stage 2
 2,279.88 
 77.90 
 2,201.98 
 14.58 
 63.32 
Stage 3
 5,466.56 
 670.78 
 4,795.78 
 913.39 
 (242.61)
Total
 284,811.90 
 2,123.15 
 282,688.75 
 2,026.77 
 96.38 
*Principal Outstanding
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
282
Note: 61 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) disclosure as required by RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.
FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 19th October, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, as amended from time to time to the 
extent applicable. 
A.	
Quantitative Disclosure
LCR Disclosure for the Quarter ended March 2025
Particulars
31-Mar-25
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)3
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)4
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
**Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 14,423.59 
 14,423.59 
Cash Outflows
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 11,420.38 
 13,133.44 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i)	
Outflows related to derivative exposuresand other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Credit and liquidity facilities
 - 
 - 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 6,500.00 
 7,475.00 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 5,404.60 
 6,215.29 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 23,324.98 
 26,823.73 
Cash Inflows 
9
Secured lending
 24,333.10 
 18,249.83 
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures
 9,026.97 
 6,770.22 
11
Other cash inflows
 11,771.38 
 8,828.53 
12 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 45,131.44 
 33,848.59 
Total Adjusted Value
13 TOTAL HQLA
 14,423.59 
14 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 6,705.94 
15 LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
215.09%
LCR Disclosure for the Quarter ended December 2024
Particulars
31-Dec-24
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)3
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)4
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
**Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 10,759.11 
 10,759.11 
Cash Outflows
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 4,895.68 
 5,630.03 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 - 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i) Outflows related to derivative exposuresand other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
 - 
 - 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 1,500.00 
 1,725.00 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 5,274.73 
 6,065.94 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 11,670.41 
 13,420.98 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
283
Particulars
31-Dec-24
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)3
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)4
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 24,481.50 
 18,361.13 
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures
 10,029.85 
 7,522.39 
11
Other cash inflows
 14,662.07 
 10,996.55 
12 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 49,173.42 
 36,880.06 
Total Adjusted Value
13 TOTAL HQLA
 10,759.11 
14 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 3,355.25 
15 LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
320.67%
LCR Disclosure for the Quarter ended September 2024
Particulars
30-Sep-24
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)3
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)4
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
**Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 17,222.70 
 17,222.70 
Cash Outflows
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 16,514.11 
 18,991.22 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i) 	
Outflows related to derivative exposuresand other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(iii) 	 Credit and liquidity facilities
 - 
 - 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 4,000.00 
 4,600.00 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 4,623.93 
 5,317.52 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 25,138.04 
 28,908.75 
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 31,182.30 
 23,386.73 
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures
 8,959.57 
 6,719.68 
11
Other cash inflows
 12,681.26 
 9,510.94 
12 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 52,823.13 
 39,617.35 
Total Adjusted Value
13 TOTAL HQLA
 17,222.70 
14 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 7,227.19 
15 LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
238.30%
LCR Disclosure for the Quarter ended June 2024
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
284
Particulars
30-Jun-24
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)3
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)4
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
**Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 14,819.00 
 14,819.00 
Cash Outflows
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 18,348.80 
 21,101.12 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i) 	
Outflows related to derivative exposuresand other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(iii) 	 Credit and liquidity facilities
 - 
 - 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 4,000.00 
 4,600.00 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 4,396.95 
 5,056.50 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 26,745.75 
 30,757.62 
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 16,457.70 
 12,343.28 
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 16,759.36 
 12,569.52 
11
Other cash inflows
 22,166.31 
 16,624.73 
12
TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 55,383.38 
 41,537.52 
Total Adjusted Value
13
TOTAL HQLA
 14,819.00 
14
TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 7,689.40 
15
LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
192.72%
B.	
Qualitative Disclosure
	
The Company has adopted Liquidity Risk Management (LRM) framework on liquidity standards as prescribed by the RBI 
guidelines and has put in place requisite systems and processes to enable periodical computation and reporting of the Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (LCR). The mandated regulatory threshold is embedded into the Liquidity Risk The Company computes the 
LCR and reports the same to the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) every month for review as well as to the ALM 
Committee of the Board.
	
The Company follows the criteria laid down by RBI for calculation of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA),gross outflows and 
inflows within the next 30-day period. HQLA predominantly comprises unencumbered Cash and Bank balances,Government 
securities viz., Treasury Bills, Central and State Government securities, Investments in TREPs (Triparty Repo trades in Government 
Securities provided by The Clearing Corporation of India).
	
The Board shall have the overall responsibility for management of liquidity risk. The Board shall decide the strategy,policies and 
procedures to manage liquidity risk in accordance with the liquidity risk tolerance/limitsdecided by itfrom time to time.The ALM 
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be responsible for evaluating the liquidity risk.Further details regarding management 
responsibilities on Liquidity Risk Management is disclosed under note 56(vi).
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
285
Note: 62 Disclosure of restructured accounts as required by the Appendix III-D of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-
24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 19th October, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, ameded from time to time to the 
extent applicable.
As at 31-03-2025
Sl 
No
Type of Restrcturing
 Restructuring others** 
Asset classification
 Standard 
 Sub 
Standard 
 Doubtful 
 Loss 
 Total 
Details
1
Restructured accounts as on 
1st April of the FY (Opening figure)
No of Borrowers
 10 
 8 
 188 
 1 
 207 
Amount Outstanding
 3.00 
 3.22 
 87.83 
 4.10 
 98.14 
Provision thereon*
 0.30 
 3.22 
 35.91 
 4.10 
 43.51 
2
Fresh Restrucuring during the 
year
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3
Upgradations 
to 
restructured 
standard category during the FY
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4
Restructured standard accounts 
which cease to attract higher 
provisioning and /or additional 
risk weight at the end of the 
FY and hence need not to be 
showed as restructured standard 
advances at the beginning of 
next FY
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5
Downgradations of restructured 
accounts during the FY
No of Borrowers
 - 
 2 
 5 
 - 
 7 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
0.30 
 1.70 
 - 
 2.00 
Provision* thereon
 - 
0.07 
 1.40 
 - 
 1.47 
6
Writeoffs /settlement/recoveries 
of restructured accounts during 
the FY
No of Borrowers
7 
3 
72 
0 
82 
Amount Outstanding
1.82 
0.43 
25.01 
0.00 
27.26 
Provision* thereon
0.18 
0.04 
9.37 
0.00 
9.59 
7
Restructured accounts as on 
March 31 of the FY(Closing figure)
No of Borrowers
 1 
 2 
 121 
 1 
 125 
Amount Outstanding
 0.39 
 0.30 
 52.17 
 3.62 
 56.48 
Provision* thereon
 0.00 
 0.07 
 31.20 
 3.62 
 34.90 
As at 31-03-2024
Sl 
No
Type of Restrcturing
 Restructuring others** 
Asset classification
 Standard 
 Sub 
Standard 
 Doubtful 
 Loss 
 Total 
Details
1
Restructured accounts as on 
1st April of the FY (Opening figure)
No of Borrowers
 - 
 14 
 342 
 4 
 360 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 7.54 
 171.06 
 4.46 
 183.06 
Provision thereon*
 - 
 0.75 
 59.63 
 4.46 
 64.84 
2
Fresh Restrucuring during the 
year
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3
Upgradations 
to 
restructured 
standard category during the FY
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
286
Sl 
No
Type of Restrcturing
 Restructuring others** 
Asset classification
 Standard 
 Sub 
Standard 
 Doubtful 
 Loss 
 Total 
Details
4
Restructured standard accounts 
which cease to attract higher 
provisioning and /or additional 
risk weight at the end of the 
FY and hence need not to be 
showed as restructured standard 
advances at the beginning of 
next FY
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5
Downgradations of restructured 
accounts during the FY
No of Borrowers
 - 
 - 
 6 
 - 
 6 
Amount Outstanding
 - 
 - 
 2.10 
 - 
 2.10 
Provision* thereon
 - 
 - 
 0.71 
 - 
 0.71 
6
Writeoffs 
of 
restructured 
accounts during the FY
No of Borrowers
0 
3 
148 
1 
152 
Amount Outstanding
0.00 
1.04 
47.72 
0.00 
48.76 
Provision* thereon
0.00 
0.10 
15.81 
0.00 
15.91 
7
Restructured accounts as on 
31st March of the FY(Closing 
figure)
No of Borrowers
 10 
 8 
 188 
 1 
 207 
Amount Outstanding
 3.00 
 3.22 
 87.83 
 4.10 
 98.14 
Provision* thereon
 0.30 
 3.22 
 35.91 
 4.10 
 43.51 
*	
Provision as per IRAC norms
**	
During FY 2021–22, normal restructuring included 364 cases of MSME-restructured loans, which were reclassified during FY 2022–23 as MSME-
restructure.
***	
Since the above disclosure pertains to the section “Others”, the first two sections namely, “under CDR Mechanism “and“ under Debt Restructuring 
Mechanism” as per format prescribed in guidelines are not included above.
Note 63 (a): Additional disclosures as required by the Reserve Bank of India
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Total Gold loan portfolio
 260,236.97 
 217,666.63 
Total Assets 
 398,355.69 
 338,930.60 
Gold loan portfolio as a percentage of total assets 
65%
64%
Note 63 (b): Additional disclosures as required by the Reserve Bank of India
Year
Number of Loan Accounts Principal  Amount outstanding at 
the dates of auctions (A)
Value fetched 
31-Mar-24
 54,333 
2,286.44 
3,174.49 
31-Mar-25
 138,113 
6,021.96 
9,282.98 
Note: The company confirms that no sister concerns participated in the auctions during the year ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
287
Note 64:Disclosure as per amended Schedule III to the Companies Act,2013
64A:Disclosure on the following matters required under Schedule III as amended not being or applicable in case 
of the company,same are not covered such as
	
a)	
No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any Benami property under the Benami 
Property (Prohobition) Act ,1988 (45 of 1988)and the rules made thereunder.
	
b)	
The company has not been declared willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
	
c)	
No registration or satisfaction of charges are pending to be filed with ROC.
	
d)	
The company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
	
e)	
There are no transactions which have not been recorded in the books.
	
f)	
The company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
	
g)	
There are no significant regroupings/re-classification for the year under audit.
	
h)	
There are no transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that have been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Such as, search or survey or any other relevent 
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
	
i)	
For the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 and previous year ended 31st March, 2024, the quarterly statements or 
returns filed by the Company with banks/ financial institutions are in agreement with books of accounts.
64B:Utilisation of Borrowed funds or share premium
	
(i)	
No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies),including foreign entities(“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding,whether recorded in writing or otherwise,that the Intermediary shall,whether, directly or indirectly lend 
to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(ii)	
No funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies),including foreign entities(“Funding 
Parties”),with the understanding,whether recorded in writing or otherwise,that the Company shall,whether, directly or 
indirectly lend to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
64C: Relationship with struck off companies
Nil . *As on reporting date(31-03-2025)
Note 65:Fraud
Instances of fraud for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Nature of fraud
No. Of Cases
Amount of Fraud
Recovery
Fraud Committed by employees
67
 48.92 
 3.55 
Fraud Committed by customers and outsiders
99
 461.55 
 47.21 
Total
166
 510.47 
 50.76 
Instances of fraud for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Nature of fraud
No. Of Cases
Amount of Fraud
Recovery
Fraud Committed by employees
68
 205.60 
 24.46 
Fraud Committed by customers and outsiders
60
 20.31 
 7.75 
Total
128
 225.91 
 32.21 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
288
Note 66: Breaches in terms of covenants in respect of loans availed by the NBFC or debt securities issued by the 
NBFC including incidence/s of default.
There were no instances of default or breaches of covenant in respect of loan availed or debt securities issued during the financial 
years ended 31st March,2025 and 31st March, 2024.
Note 67: Unhedged foreign currency exposure 
The company does not have any Unhedged foreign currency exposure as on 31st March, 2025. Although, the company holds foreign 
currency notes as disclosed in Note 8 - Cash and Cash Equivalents amounting to `1.16 Mn (FY 2023-24 -  `0.65 Mn)
Note 68:Intra-group exposures
Particulars
31-Mar-2025
31-Mar-2024
i)	
Total amount of intra-group exposure
 21,838.54 
 18,584.85 
ii)	
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposure
 21,838.54 
 18,584.85 
iii)	
Percentage of intra-group exposure to total exposure of NBFC on borrowers/
customers
6.48%
6.35%
Note 69:Disclosure under covid resolution plans
Detail of resolution plans implemented under the “Resolution framework for COVID-19-related Stress” as per the RBI 
notification no. RBI/2020-21/16 DOR.NO.BP.BC/3/21.04.048/2020-21 dated 06th August, 2020 and RBI/2021-22/31 DOR.STR.
REC.11/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 05th May, 2021 as at 31st March, 2025 are given below.The resolution plans were based on 
the parameters laid down in the resolution policy approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and in accordance with the 
guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India.
Format B
As at 31st March, 2025
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan-Position 
as at the end of previous 
half year.(A)
Of (A),aggregate 
debt that slipped 
into NPA during 
the half year
Of (A), amount 
written off 
during the half 
year
Of (A), amount 
paid by 
borrowers 
during the half 
year
Exposure to accounts 
classified as standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan-
position as at the end of 
this half year.
Personal Loans #
0.56
0.00
-
0.30
0.26
Corporate Persons*
-
-
-
-
-
Of which MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
Others 
0.30
0.00
0.00
0.20
0.10
Total
0.86
0.00
0.00
0.50
0.37
# Includes restructuring done in respect of request received as of 30th September, 2021 processed subsequently.
* As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016	
Note 70:MSME Restructuring disclosure	
The disclosure as required under RBI notification No.RBI/2020-21/17 DOR.No.BP.BC/4/21.04.048/2020-21 on Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector – Restructuring of Advances dated 06th August, 2020, and under RBI Notification 
No.RBI/2021-22/32 DOR.STR.REC.12/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 5th May, 2021 are as follows:
As at 31st March, 2025
Type of borrower
No.of accounts 
restructured
Exposure to restructured 
accounts As on 31.03.2025
MSME
220
 56.74* 
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
289
As at 31st March, 2024
Type of borrower
No.of accounts 
restructured
Exposure to restructured 
accounts As on 31.03.2024
MSME
318
 94.51* 
*Total outstanding has been considered 
Note-71 :Corporate Governance report containing composition and category of directors, shareholding of non-
executive directors, etc.
The corporate governance report containing composition and category of directors, shareholding of non-executive directors is part 
of the annual report for the financial years ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
Note 72. Disclosure for Loans to Directors, Senior Officers and Relatives of Directors as required as per Annex XI of 
RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 19th October, 2023 ‘Master 
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, 
as amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Directors and their relatives
Nil
Nil
Entities associated with directors and their relatives
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Senior Officers and their relatives
Nil
Nil
During the year the subsidiary company  Manappuram Home Finance Limited have availed and repaid loan ` 250 Mn @ Int. 
Rate. 10.15%
Note 73: Divergence in asset classification and provisioning above a certain threshold to be decided by the 
Reserve Bank.
The RBI has neither assessed any additional provisioning requirements in excess of 5 % of the reported profits before tax and 
impairment loss on financial instruments for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024, nor identified any additional Gross NPA in 
excess of 5 % of the reported gross NPA for the said period.
Note 74: Items of income and expenditure of exceptional nature.
On July 26,2024, the Company was informed by its Subsidiary namely Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Ltd(“MACOM”), 
providing IT Support Services to the Company, of instances of embezzlement of funds of the Company to the extent of approximately 
`197.77 Mn through unauthorized access. The Management of MACOM appointed an independent consultant to carry out an 
investigation, who concluded its investigation and confirmed through its report dated October 19,2024 that no incremental instances 
of embezzlemet of funds were noted by them and the assessed loss remains the same to the extent of `197.77 Mn as determined 
during the preliminary findings. Considering that an employee of MACOM was involved in the embezzlement of funds, the Company 
has submitted a recovery plan to MACOM for `197.77 Mn, which had been approved by the Board Of Directors of MACOM in its 
meeting held on November 1,2024 after considering the financial position of MACOM and its income and other relevant aspects,which 
will facilitate the recovery of the dues over a period of 4 years, for which the Company has entered into a settlement agreement dated 
November 5,2024 with MACOM. Since the amount of `197.77 Mn is fully recoverable from MACOM, there is no additional impact, 
which needs to be accounted in the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31,2025.
During the reporting period, the company has accounted for compensation receivable of `197.77 Mn for losses suffered due to 
fraudulent activities. This compensation is considered as an exceptional item due to its nature and size. The compensation has been 
recognized in the Profit & Loss Statement as an exceptional item, reflecting its non-recurring nature. This treatment aligns with the 
relevant accounting standards and provides a clear view of the company’s operational performance.There is an income of exceptional 
nature of `197.77 Million for the financial years ended March 31, 2025.
Notes
to Standalone Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
290
Note 75:Disclosure on modified opinion,If any,expressed by auditors,its impact on various financial items and 
views of management on audit qualifications
The auditors have expressed an unmodified opinion on the standalone financial statements of the Company for the financial years 
ended 31st March, 2024 and 31st March, 2025.
Note 76: Disclosure on Long Tem Contracts
The company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material foresseeable losses.
Note 77: Disclosure on Investor Education and Protection Fund 
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the Company has transferred an amount of ` 6.95 million representing unclaimed dividends 
and unpaid NCD to the Investor Education and Protection Fund, in accordance with the provisions of Section 124(5) of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
Furter, the company had initiated the process of transferring amounts pertaining to Unpaid Dividend (INR 0.86 million) to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) well before due date. But due to technical glitches in MCA portal and change over from V2 
version to V3 version, process got delayed and had filed the e-form IEPF – 1 with MCA after due date which was beyond the control 
of Company. Due care has been taken in filing e-form with MCA within due date.
Note 78: Unsecured advances
The Company has not granted unsecured advances against collateral of intangible securities such as charge over the rights, licenses 
or authority.
Note 79: Whistle- Blower Complaints
There were Nil complaints received by the company during the financial years ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
Note 80: Audit Trail
The Company uses accoutnting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility and the same has operated throughout the year (at application level and at database level) for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software. Further, the audit trail has been preseved by the Company as per statutory requirements for record retention.
Note 81: Details of financing of parent company products
The Company does not have any parent company, hence not applicable.
Note 82: Previous year figures
Previous year figures have been regrouped/reclassified, where necessary, to conform current year’s classification.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place : Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: 9th May, 2025	
Date: 9th May, 2025
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
291
Annexure I
Schedule to the Balance Sheet of a Non -Banking Financial Company
(as required in terms of Annex VIII of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 
October 19, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 
2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent applicable)
(INR in millions)
Particulars
Liabilities side :
Amount 
Outstanding
Amount 
Overdue
(1)
Loans and advances availed by the non-banking financial company inclusive of 
interest accrued thereon but not paid :
(a)
Debentures	 : Secured
 32,373.82 
 - 
	
	
: Unsecured
 - 
 - 
(other than falling within the meaning of public deposits*)
(b)
Deferred Credits
(c)
Term Loans
 136,557.38 
 - 
(d)
Inter-corporate loans and borrowing
 - 
 - 
(e)
Commercial Paper
 2,941.43 
 - 
(f)
Public Deposits*
 - 
 - 
(g)
Other Loans (specify nature)
Subordinate bond
 - 
 - 
Bank
 72,293.41 
 - 
USD Bond
 26,240.11 
 - 
Others 
 - 
 - 
* Please see Note 1 below
(2)
Break-up of (1)(f) above (Outstanding public deposits inclusive of interest accrued 
thereon but not paid) :
(a)
In the form of Unsecured debentures
 - 
 - 
(b)
In the form of partly secured debentures i.e. debentures where there is a shortfall 
in the value of security
 - 
 - 
(c)
Other public deposits
 - 
 - 
* Please see Note 1 below
Assets side :
Amount outstanding
(3)
Break-up of Loans and Advances including bills receivables [other 
than those included in (4) below] :
(a)
Secured
3,33,783.10
(b)
Unsecured
 3,119.79 
(4)
Break up of Leased Assets and stock on hire and hypothecation loans 
counting towards EL/HP activities
(i)
Lease assets including lease rentals under sundry debtors :
 - 
(a)
Financial lease
 - 
(b)
Operating lease
 - 
(ii)
Stock on hire including hire charges under sundry debtors :
 - 
(a)
Assets on hire
 - 
(b)
Repossessed Assets
 - 
(iii)
Hypothecation loans counting towards EL/HP activities
 - 
(a)
Loans where assets have been repossessed
 - 
(b)
Loans other than (a) above
 - 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
292
(5)
Break-up of Investments :
Current Investments :
1.
Quoted
 - 
(i)
Shares
 - 
(a)	
Equity
 - 
(b)	
Preference
 - 
(ii)
Debentures and Bonds
 - 
(iii)
Units of mutual funds
 - 
(iv)
Government Securities
 - 
(v)
Others (please specify)
 - 
2.
Unquoted
 - 
(i)
Shares
 - 
(a)	
Equity
 - 
(b)	
Preference
 - 
(ii)
Debentures and Bonds
 - 
(iii)
Units of mutual funds
 - 
(iv)
Government Securities
 - 
(v)
Others (please specify)
 - 
Long Term investments :
1.
Quoted :
(i)
Share
(a)	
Equity
 46.57 
(b)	
Preference
 - 
(ii)
Debentures and Bonds
 - 
(iii)
Units of mutual funds
 - 
(iv)
Government Securities
 3,063.48 
(v)
Others (please specify)
 - 
2.
Unquoted
(i)
Shares
(a)	
Equity
 13,461.32 
(b)	
Preference
 - 
(ii)
Debentures and Bonds
 1,647.14 
(iii)
Units of mutual funds
 - 
(iv)
Government Securities
 - 
(v)
Others (please specify)
 - 
Standalone
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
293
(6)
Borrower group-wise classification of assets financed as in (3) and (4) above: 
Please see Note 2 below
Category
Amount net of provisions
Secured
Unsecured
Total
1.
Related Parties **
(a)
Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
 - 
(b)
Companies in the same group
 - 
 - 
 - 
(c)
Other related parties
 - 
 - 
 - 
2.
Other than related parties
3,33,783.10
 3,119.79 
3,36,902.89
Total
3,33,783.10
 3,119.79 
3,36,902.89
(7)
Investor group-wise classification of all investments (current and long term) in shares and securities (both quoted and 
unquoted) : Please see note 3 below
Category
Market Value /
Break up or fair 
value or NAV
Book Value 
(Net of 
Provisions)
1.
Related Parties **
(a)
Subsidiaries
 15,108.47 
 15,108.47 
(b)
Companies in the same group
 - 
 - 
(c)
Other related parties
 - 
 - 
2.
Other than related parties
 3,110.06 
 3,110.06 
Total
 18,218.53 
 18,218.53 
** As per Accounting Standard of ICAI (Please see Note 3)
(8)
Other information
Particulars
Amount
(i)
Gross Non-Performing Assets
(a)
Related parties
 - 
(b)
Other than related parties
 8,905.68 
(ii)
Net Non Performing Assets
(a)
Related parties
 - 
(b)
Other than related parties
 7,527.44 
(iii)
Assets acquired in satisfaction of debt
 - 
Notes :
1	
As defined in paragraph 5.1.26 of the Non-Banking Financial Companies Acceptance of Public Deposits (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016.
2	
Provisioning norms shall be applicable as prescribed in the Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023
3	
All notified Accounting Standards and Guidance Notes issued by ICAI are applicable including for valuation of investments and other assets as also 
assets acquired in satisfaction of debt. However, market value in respect of quoted investments and break up/ fair value/ NAV in respect of unquoted 
investments shall be disclosed irrespective of whether they are classified as long term (amortised cost in the case of Ind AS) or current (fair value in 
the case of Ind AS) in (5) above.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
294
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Manappuram Finance Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Manappuram Finance Limited (the Holding 
Company’ or ‘the Parent’ or ‘the Company’), and its 
subsidiaries (the ‘Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
together referred to as the ‘Group’), which comprise the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, and 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows for the year ended on that date, and notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a 
summary of material accounting policy information and 
other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
the ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based on 
the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate 
financial statements of such subsidiaries, as were 
audited by the other auditors, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended (’Ind AS’) and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated 
state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2025, and its 
consolidated profits and other comprehensive income, 
consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated cash 
flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics issued by Institute of Chartered Accountant 
of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements under the provisions of the Act, and the 
rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and 
the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained along with the consideration of audit reports 
of the other auditors referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ 
paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Emphasis of Matter
4.	
We draw attention to note no. 55 (ii) of the Consolidated 
Financial Statement describing the identification of 
instances of embezzlement of the Company’s funds by 
an employee of the Company’s subsidiary, Manappuram 
Comptech and Consultants Limited (the ‘subsidiary’) and 
the details of investigation carried out by an independent 
consultant. As represented by the Company’s management, 
the independent consultant has concluded the investigation 
procedures and has confirmed that the extent of the 
embezzlement does not exceed ` 197.77 millions as 
determined during the preliminary findings.
5.	
We draw attention to note no. 58 (ii) (b) of the Consolidated 
Financial Statement describing Reserve Bank of India 
(’RBI’)’s cease-and-desist order dated October 17, 2024 
on AMFL from sanction and disbursal of loan, which was 
effective from the close of business on October 21, 2024. 
This action was based on material supervisory concerns 
observed in the pricing policy of the AMFL in terms 
of weighted average lending rate and interest spread 
charged over the cost of funds, which were found to be 
excessive and not in adherence with the RBI regulations. 
These business restrictions did not preclude the AMFL 
from servicing their existing customers and carrying out 
collection and recovery processes in accordance with 
the extant regulatory guidelines. Subsequently to the 
same, the AMFL initiated remedial action and submitted 
their various compliances to the RBI. The RBI had lifted 
the afore-mentioned restrictions placed vide their order 
(CO.DOS.DSD.No. 57210/51-01402/2024.25) dated 
January 8, 2025.
	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statement is not 
modified in respect of the above matters.
Key Audit Matters
6.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.
7.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the 
key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
295
Key Audit Matter (‘KAM’)
How the KAM was addressed in our audit
Interest Income on Gold Loans:
Interest Income on Gold Loans for the financial year ended 31 
March 2025: INR 51,510.54 millions.
Refer note no. 30 (i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Interest Income on Gold Loan is based on the various gold loan 
schemes provided by the Company which is netted off against 
the rebates & discounts given for prompt or early re-payments. 
The calculation of the rebates & discount amounts netted off 
against the interest income involve complexities on account of 
discretion & management judgement which is dependent upon 
the timing and period of repayment under the different schemes. 
Considering the significance of interest income on gold loans 
and the above factors we have considered Interest Income on 
gold loan as Key Audit Matter
Our audit procedures in respect of this matter included the 
following: 
	
Obtained an understanding of various schemes approved 
by the management and process, applications and controls 
implemented on in relation to computation & recognition 
of interest income on gold loans and rebated provided to 
the customer on prompt and early re-payment
	
Evaluated the IT Architecture, process flow and operating 
effectiveness of key internal financial controls pertaining 
to the recognition of the various gold loan schemes and 
interest income thereon, including rebates & discounts.
	
Tested the relevant IT General Controls around access 
and change management relating to interest income 
computation and related information used in interest 
computation.
	
For loans settled during the year, on test check basis, 
examined the accuracy of interest income and the 
rebated recognised under various gold loans schemes by 
performing re-computation.
	
For loans disbursed during the year and remaining 
outstanding as at the reporting date, re-computation of 
interest income was performed for the entire outstanding 
loans.
	
Performed analytical procedures and test of details 
procedures for testing the accuracy and completeness of 
revenue recognized.
	
Obtained the list of modifications made in the interest 
scheme master during the year and verified the same on 
test check basis.
	
Reconciliation of balances as per general ledger and sub-
ledgers were performed to ascertain the completeness of 
the transactions recognised. Further reconciliation was 
performed between sub-ledger and customer transaction 
history for selected transactions
	
Assessed the appropriateness, accuracy and adequacy of 
related presentation and disclosures in accordance with 
the applicable accounting standards.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
296
Key Audit Matter (‘KAM’)
How the KAM was addressed in our audit
Provision for Expected Credit Losses (ECL) on Loans:
Total Gross Loans as at 31 March 2025: INR 3,21,895.39 millions
Impairment Provision as at 31 March 2025: INR 2,872.71  millions
Refer note no. 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
In accordance with Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’, the 
Company applies ECL model for measurement and recognition 
of impairment loss on the loan assets. ECL involves an estimation 
of probability weighted loss on financial instruments over 
their life, considering reasonable and supportable information 
about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of future 
economic conditions which could impact the credit quality of the 
Company’s financial assets (loan portfolio).
Impairment loss measurement requires use of statistical models 
to estimate the Probabilities of Default (PD), Loss Given Default 
(LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD). These models are key 
driver to measure Impairment loss.
Significant judgements are used in classifying loan assets and 
applying appropriate measurement principles. The allowance 
for ECL involves a significant level of management judgement 
and estimation uncertainty in the following key areas:
	
Assessing whether there has been a significant increase 
in credit risk for exposures since its initial recognition by 
comparing the risk of default occurring over the expected 
life of the asset between the date of initial recognition and 
the reporting date, which involves estimation uncertainty in 
computing the default risk over life of the assets which is 
likely to be more than one year.
	
Classification of loan assets to stage I, II, or III using criteria 
in accordance with Ind AS 109 where no significant increase 
in credit risk has been observed, such assets are classified 
in ‘Stage I’, loans that are considered to have significant 
increase in credit risk are not credit impaired are considered 
to be in ‘Stage II’ and those which are in default or for which 
there is an objective evidence of impairment are considered 
to be in ‘Stage III’. Such classification requires significant 
management judgements due to the nature of loan assets 
and assessment required thereon.
	
Determination of EAD, PD and estimation of LGD. The 
probability of default for the pools are computed based 
on the historical losses incurred on defaults, adjusted with 
any forward-looking macro-economic factors which is 
subject to estimation uncertainty. Similarly, the Company 
computes the Loss Given Default based on the recovery 
rates as estimated by management.
Considering the above, allowance for Expected Credit Loss on 
Loan Assets requires a high degree of judgement and estimation 
uncertainty, with a potential range of outcomes which have a 
significant impact on the financial statements. Accordingly, we 
have determined Provision for ECL on Loans as a Key Audit Matter.
Our audit procedures in respect of this matter included the 
following, but not limited to:
	
Obtained understanding of the credit risk attached to 
each portfolio or business segment of the Company and 
the derivation of the model used by the Company for 
determination  of ECL for each major portfolio.
	
Examined policies approved by the Board of Directors 
for computation of ECL that addresses procedures 
and controls for assessing and measuring credit risk 
on all lending exposures commensurate with the size, 
complexity and risk profile specific to the Company.
	
Evaluated the Company’s accounting policy in respected 
of ECL provisioning in compliance with requirements of 
Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’
	
Assessed & validated the design and operating 
effectiveness of controls across the processes relevant to 
allowance for ECL. These controls, among others, included 
controls over the appropriateness of data used for 
measurement, allocation of assets into stages including 
management’s monitoring of stage effectiveness, financial 
information used for deriving PD and LGD, computation of 
PD, LGD and consequently the ECL as at the reporting date 
and posting of related journal entries.
	
Verified on sample basis, the completeness of loans 
included in the Expected Credit Loss calculations as of 31 
March 2025 and the accuracy of the source data
	
Selected 
samples 
& 
verified 
appropriateness 
of 
classification of loan assets in stage I, II and III in accordance 
with the policy approved by the Board of Directors.
	
Examined the appropriateness of information used in 
the estimation of the Probability of Default (‘PD’) and 
recomputed the average PD to applied for measurement 
of ECL as at the reporting date. Further, validated the 
information of the macro-economic factors used for 
determining the PD from external sources.
	
Validating the recoverability analysis performed by the 
management for cases tagged as non-performing assets 
as at the reporting date for determining the Loss given 
Default (‘LGD’) for the different stages depending on the 
nature of the portfolio. Performed re-computation of LGD 
at each pledge level.
	
Selected 
samples 
of 
exposure 
and verified 
the 
appropriateness of determining Exposure at Default (EAD), 
PD and LGD.
	
Performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision 
levels at each stage.
	
Assessed 
the 
adequacy 
and 
appropriateness 
of 
disclosures in compliance with the Ind AS 107 in relation to 
ECL especially in relation to judgements used in estimation 
of ECL provision.
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
297
Key Audit Matter (‘KAM’)
How the KAM was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (‘IT’) Systems and Controls:
The IT environment of the Company is complex
and involves a large number of independent and interdependent 
modules used in the operations of the Company for processing 
and recording a large volume of transactions. As a result, there 
is a high degree of reliance and dependency on such IT systems 
for the financial reporting process of the Company
In particular, the IT system is used for recording all disbursements 
and collections, identification and tagging of pledged loans to 
customers and calculating interest income and overdue days.
The Company’s accounting and financial reporting processes 
are dependent on automated controls enabled by IT systems 
which impacts key financial accounting and reporting items such 
as loans, interest income, impairment on loans amongst others.
The reliability and security of IT systems play a key role in 
the business operation. The controls implemented by the 
Company in its IT environment determine the integrity, accuracy, 
completeness and validity of data that is processed by the 
applications and is ultimately used for financial reporting.
Accordingly, we have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key 
audit matter because of the high-level automation, significant 
number of modules being used by the management and the 
complexity of the IT architecture and its impact on the financial 
reporting system.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included the 
following, but were not limited to the following:
	
Involved IT specialists as part of the audit for the purpose 
of testing the IT general controls and application controls 
to determine the accuracy of the information produced by 
the Company’s IT systems.
	
Obtained 
a 
comprehensive 
understanding 
of 
IT 
Environment, IT Applications and related infrastructure 
to assess the controls with reference to preparation of 
financial statements.
	
Tested design and operating effectiveness of key controls 
operating over user access management, change 
management and other IT operations (which includes 
testing of key controls pertaining to, backup and incident 
management and data centre security), System interface 
controls. This included testing that requests for access 
to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed, and 
authorized;
	
Testing the controls laid down by the management over 
modification of transactions recognised in the accounting 
modules or insertion or deletion of transactions in the 
accounting module. Further tested the controls with 
respect to insertion or modification of interest rate masters 
and customer transaction history.
	
Examined the process and procedures and other 
documentations for complying with the requirements 
of the RBI Master Direction on Information Technology 
Governance, Risk, Controls and Assurance Practices (DoS.
CO.CSITEG/SEC.7/31.01.015/2023-24 dated November 7, 
2023)
The auditors of Asirvad Micro Finance Limited, vide their audit report dated 07 May 2025, have expressed an unmodified opinion on 
the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matters have been included by us on as is 
where is basis as under:
Key Audit Matter (‘KAM’)
Auditors’ Response
Expected Credit Loss - Impairment of carrying value of loans 
and advances
Under Ind AS 109, Expected Credit Losses (‘ECL’) are required 
to be determined for recognizing impairment losses on financial 
assets which are stated at amortized cost. The Company 
exercises significant judgment using assumptions in recognizing 
impairment provision for loans and advances. The computation of 
impairment provision or ECL is based on significant management 
estimates and judgments, which are as under:
	
Judgements about credit risk characteristics for collective 
evaluation of impairment under various stages of ECL
	
Qualitative and quantitative factors used in staging the loan 
assets carried at amortized cost
	
Model estimations – Inherently judgemental models 
are used to estimate ECL which involves determining 
Probabilities of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and 
Exposures at default (EAD)
Performed following audit procedures:
	
Read the Company’s Board approved Ind AS 109 based 
impairment provisioning Methodology and Estimates 
policy. 
	
Understood and assessed the Company’s process and 
controls on measurement and recognition of impairment 
in the loan portfolio. 
	
Verified on a sample basis, loans in stage 1, 2 and 3 to 
ascertain that they were allocated to the appropriate stage.
	
Test checked the Probability of Default (‘PD’) and Loss 
Given Default (‘LGD’) computations performed by the 
management, including testing data used in assessment 
and 
evaluation 
of 
whether 
the 
results 
Support 
appropriateness of the PDs at a portfolio level
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
298
Key Audit Matter (‘KAM’)
Auditors’ Response
	
Consideration of probability scenarios and forward looking 
macro-economic factors
ECL requires a large variety of data such as historical data, 
macro-economic & state specific variables as an input to the ECL 
model. This increases the risk of completeness and accuracy of 
the data that has been used to create assumptions in the model.
In view of the criticality of the item to the Financial Statements, 
complex nature of assumptions, interpretations of RBI regulations 
& judgements exercised by the management and loans forming 
a major portion of the Company’s assets and impairment charge 
for the year being material to the net profit for the year, in our 
opinion this is considered as a Key Audit Matter.
	
Test checked the computations of determining Exposure 
at Default (EAD)
	
Test checked the manner of determining significant 
increase in credit risk and the resultant basis for 
classification of exposures into various stages.
	
Performed an assessment of the ECL provision at each 
stage to determine if they were reasonable considering the 
Company’s portfolio, risk profile, credit risk management 
practices and the macroeconomic environment.
	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the computations 
made by the Company.
	
Perused the disclosures in the financial statements in 
respect of ECL and specific disclosures made in adherence 
with RBI guidelines related to COVID 19 packages.
	
We have also obtained management representations 
wherever considered necessary.
IT Systems and Controls
The Company operates in a complex IT environment that involves 
substantial reliance on its IT systems which are extensively used 
in the operations of the Company for processing and recording 
voluminous data impacting key financial data including loans, 
interest income, repayment collections data and impairment 
of financial instruments. These IT systems are also extensively 
used in the financial reporting process.
Adequate IT General Controls, application controls and access 
controls are required to ensure that such IT systems are able 
to process the data to ensure data consistency, accuracy and 
reliability especially for financial reporting.
We have identified IT Systems and Controls impacting financial 
reporting as key audit matter because of significant use of 
IT system and the scale and complexity of the IT architecture 
including its extensive use in the financial reporting process. Our 
audit outcome is dependent on the effective functioning of such 
IT systems.
Performed audit procedures set out below: 
	
Obtained an understanding of the Company’s business 
IT environment and key changes if any during the audit 
period that may be relevant to the audit.
	
Audit procedures included verifying testing and reviewing 
the design and operating effectiveness of the key 
automated and manual business cycle controls and logic 
for system generated reports relevant to the audit by 
verifying the reports/returns and other financial and non-
financial information generated from the system on a test 
check basis.
	
Tested the automated computation performed by the IT 
systems including that of interest income.
	
Placed reliance on audit report issued by the independent 
third-party auditor as appointed by the Company for 
review of Information Security and IT General Control.
	
Also obtained management representations wherever 
considered necessary.
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
299
The auditors of Manappuram Home Finance Limited, vide their audit report dated May 02, 2025, have expressed an unmodified 
opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the following Key Audit Matter has been included by us 
on as is where is basis as under:
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) on Loans and Advances 
The estimation of ECL on financial instruments involves significant 
judgement and estimates. As part of our risk assessment, we 
determined that the allowance for ECL on loan assets has a 
high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of 
reasonable outcomes for the financial statements. 
The elements of estimating ECL which involved increased level 
of audit focus are the following:
Performed the following audit procedures:
a)	
Testing the design and effectiveness of internal controls 
over the following:
	
Key controls over the completeness and accuracy of 
the key inputs, data and assumptions into the Ind AS 109 
impairment models.
a)	
Data inputs - The application of ECL model requires several 
data inputs.
b)	
Model estimations – Inherently judgmental models 
are used to estimate ECL which involves determining 
Probabilities of Default (“PD”), Loss Given Default (“LGD”), 
and Exposures at Default (“EAD”). The PD and the LGD are 
the key drivers of estimation complexity in the ECL and as 
a result are considered the most significant judgmental 
aspect of the Company’s modelling approach.
c)	
Qualitative and quantitative factors used in staging the loan 
assets measured at amortized cost.
d)	
Economic scenarios – Ind AS 109 requires the Company 
to measure ECLs on an unbiased forward-looking basis 
reflecting a range of future economic conditions. Significant 
management judgement is applied in determining the 
economic scenarios used and the probability weights 
applied to them.
	
Key controls over the application of the staging criteria 
consistent with the definitions applied in accordance with 
the policy approved by the Board of Directors including the 
appropriateness of the qualitative factors.
	
Management’s controls over authorisation and calculation 
of post model adjustments and management overlays to 
the output of the ECL model.
b)	
Also, for a sample of ECL allowance on loan assets tested 
in respect of key inputs, data and assumptions impacting 
ECL calculations to assess the completeness, accuracy and 
relevance of data, reasonableness of economic forecasts, 
weights, and model assumptions applied.
	
Tested the mathematical accuracy and computation of 
the allowances by using the same input data used by the 
Company. Reviewed the PD and LGD calculation provided 
by the Company. c) Testing management’s controls on 
compliance with disclosures to confirm the compliance 
with the provisions of relevant provisions of Ind AS 109 
and the RBI and verified impairment methodologies and 
reasonableness of assumptions used. d) For models which 
were changed or updated during the year, evaluating 
whether the changes were appropriate by assessing the 
updated model methodology. e) Read and assessed the 
disclosures included in the Ind AS financial statements in 
respect of expected credit losses with the requirements of 
Ind AS 107 Financial Instruments: Disclosure (“Ind AS 107”) 
and Ind AS 109.
Other Information
8.	
The Company’s Management & Board of Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the other information. 
The other information comprises the information included 
in the Company’s annual report but does not include the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and our auditors’ report 
thereon. The Other Information is expected to be made 
available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
9.	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does 
not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
10.	 In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes available 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on 
the work we have performed, we conclude that there is 
a material misstatement of this other information, we are 
required to report that fact.
11.	 When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance 
and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant 
laws and regulations.
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
300
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
12.	 The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
Consolidated Financial Statements, that give a true and fair 
view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance including other comprehensive 
income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated 
Cash Flows of the Group in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. The respective Board of Directors 
of the companies included in the Group are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection of the appropriate accounting 
software for ensuring compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations including those related to retention 
of audit logs; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Directors 
of the Company, as aforesaid.
13.	 In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for assessing the ability of 
each company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of 
Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
14.	 The respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of the respective companies.
Auditor’s 
responsibilities 
for 
the 
audit 
of 
the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
15.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
	
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
15.1.	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
15.2.	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of 
the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
15.3.	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management and the 
Board of Directors.
15.4.	Conclude on the appropriateness of the management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of 
the Group to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
15.5.	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
15.6.	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities 
within the Group to express an opinion on the Consolidated 
Financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the Financial 
Statements of such entities included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of which we are the independent 
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
301
auditors. For the other entities included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion.
16.	 We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
17.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
18.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the current year and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
19.	 We did not audit the financial statements of four subsidiaries 
whose financial statements reflect total assets of INR 
1,08,742 million (before consolidation adjustment) as at 
March 31, 2025, total revenues of INR 31,580 million (before 
consolidation adjustment) and net cash outflows of INR 
7,192 million for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial 
statements have been audited by other auditors whose 
reports have been furnished to us by the Management and 
our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in 
so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in terms 
of sections 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it relates to the 
aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the 
other auditors. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the above 
matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and 
the reports of the other auditors.
20.	 The consolidated financial statement for the financial year 
ended 31 March 2024 were audited by the predecessor 
joint auditors, M S K A & Associates, Chartered Accountants, 
and S K Patodia & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants 
whose report dated 24 May 2024 expressed an unmodified 
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements is not 
modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
21.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit 
and on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors 
on separate financial statements of such subsidiaries, as 
were audited by other auditors, as noted in the ‘Other 
Matters’ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
21.1	We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
21.2.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by 
law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books and the reports of the 
other auditors except for the matters stated in paragraph 
22.8 below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended)
21.3	The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive 
income), the Consolidated Statement of changes in equity 
and the consolidated statement of cash flow dealt with by 
this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of 
account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
21.4.	In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 
133 of the Act read with the relevant rules thereunder.
21.5.	On the basis of the written representations received from 
the directors of the Company a taken-on record by the 
Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports 
of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, none 
of the directors of the Group companies are disqualified as 
on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
21.6.	With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other 
matters connected therewith, reference is made to our 
remarks in paragraph 21.2 above on reporting under 
Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 22.8 below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended).
21.7.	With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls 
with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Group, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, 
refer to our separate report in ‘Annexure A’.
21.8.	In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on the reports of the 
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
302
statutory auditors of such subsidiary companies which were 
not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current 
year by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, to 
its directors is in accordance with the provisions of Section 
197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director by the 
Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, is not in excess 
of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
22.	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, as amended, 
in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based on 
the consideration of audit reports of the other auditors on 
separate financial statements of such subsidiaries, as noted 
in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph:
22.1	The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the 
impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2025 on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group – Refer note no. 
45 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
22.2	The Group has recognised the expected credit loss on the 
loans as per the requirements of the Ind AS 109 ‘Financial 
Instruments’. (Refer note no. 11 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements). As represented to us The Group did 
not have any other long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts for which there were any material foreseeable 
losses (Refer note no. 62 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements)
22.3	There was an instance of delay in transferring amounts 
pertaining to Unpaid Dividend (INR 0.86 million), required 
to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company. (Refer note no. 59 to Consolidated 
Financial Statements)
22.4	The respective Managements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act have represented to us 
and the other auditors of such subsidiaries, to the best of 
their knowledge and belief as disclosed in Note no. 53B to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, that no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of 
funds) by the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries 
to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (‘Intermediaries’),with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
22.5	The respective Managements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented to us and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries, to best of their knowledge 
and belief as disclosed in note no. 53B to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, that no funds have been received by 
the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding 
Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or any 
of such subsidiaries shall, whether, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
22.6	Based on such audit procedures, that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
performed by us and those performed by auditors of the 
subsidiaries whose financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s 
notice that has caused us or other auditors to believe that 
the representation under para ‘22.4’ and ‘22.5’ contain any 
material misstatement.
22.7	As stated in note no. 28 b to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Holding Company during the financial year and until the 
date of this audit report is in accordance with Section 123 
of the Act.
22.8	Based on our examination which included test checks, the 
company has used an accounting software for maintaining 
its books of account which has a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility. Further, the audit trail facility has been 
operating throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software. The master records of certain 
modules can be accessed by the database administrator 
wherein trail of changes made by database administrator 
is not captured. As represented to us, the privilege access 
and release management operations performed by Data 
Base Administrator is monitored by Company’s database 
monitoring team on daily basis.
	
Further, during the course of our audit, based on our 
examination and representation made by the management, 
we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature 
being tampered with. The audit trail to monitor changes 
to the tables, where old value has been stored, are made 
effective from 30 April 2025.
	
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the 
Company as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention. The audit trail at the database level for one of the 
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
303
modules forming part of the application has been made 
effective from current financial year and accordingly the 
aforesaid audit trail for prior periods are not available.
23.	 With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3 (xxi) 
and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 
(‘CARO’) issued by Central Government in terms of Section 
143(11) of the Act, to be included in Auditor’s report, 
according to the information and explanations given to 
us, and based on the CARO reports issued by us for the 
Company and based on our consideration of CARO reports 
issued by respective auditors of the companies included in 
consolidated financial statements, we report that there are 
no qualifications or adverse remarks in these CARO reports.
For and on behalf of
KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly known as Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
For and on behalf of
Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101872W/W100045
sd/- 
Soorej Kombaht
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 164366 
UDIN: 25164366BMNUMR5157
sd/-
Vineet Saxena
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 100770
UDIN: 25100770BMIQRO2847
Place: Valapad 
Date: 09 May 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 09 May 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
304
“Annexure A” to the Independent Auditors’ Report
on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Manappuram Finance Limited for the year ended 31 March 2025
(Referred to in paragraph 21.7 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial 
controls reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
of Manappuram Finance Limited (hereinafter referred to as 
‘the Holding Company’) which includes the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies (the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’) which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Opinion
2.	
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the Group, 
have, in all material respects, an adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements criteria established by the respective 
companies considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the ICAI’).
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
3.	
The respective Management and the Board of Directors 
of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, 
which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements criteria established 
by the respective companies considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial 
Reporting issued by the ICAI. These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s responsibility
4.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies which are companies incorporated in India, 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) 
issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed 
under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding 
of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks 
of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms 
of their reports referred to in the Other Matter paragraph 
below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated 
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
305
Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
8.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be 
detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal financial control with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
9.	
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements in so far as it relates to all subsidiary companies, 
which are companies incorporated in India, is based on 
the corresponding reports auditors of such companies 
incorporated in India.
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For and on behalf of
KKC & Associates LLP
(formerly known as Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
For and on behalf of
Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101872W/W100045
sd/- 
Soorej Kombaht
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 164366 
UDIN: 25164366BMNUMR5157
sd/-
Vineet Saxena
Partner
ICAI Membership No.: 100770
UDIN: 25100770BMIQRO2847
Place: Valapad 
Date: 09 May 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: 09 May 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
306
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note 
No:
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at 
31 March, 2024
ASSETS
1
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
9
30,826.88
25,417.15
Bank balance other than above
10
7,250.03
6,395.35
Derivative financial instruments
19
413.00
25.45
Loans
11
4,22,515.55
4,09,475.67
Investments
12
7,877.34
7,263.37
Other financial assets
13
5,534.85
4,395.02
2
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net) 
14
1,546.14
745.08
Deferred tax assets (net)
38
3,753.54
2,014.98
Investment property
15
0.86
0.86
Property, plant and equipment
16
5,064.80
4,402.23
Capital work-in-progress
16
114.70
333.46
Intangible assets under development 
17
-
0.14
Right of use asset
45
5,389.60
5,584.71
Goodwill 
56
355.65
355.65
Other intangible assets
17
528.83
355.35
Other non-financial assets
18
875.16
714.55
Total Assets
4,92,046.93
4,67,479.02
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
LIABILITIES
1
Financial liabilities
Payables
- 	
Trade payables
20
	
(i) 	
total outstanding dues of micro, small and medium enterprises
3.10
2.23
	
(ii) 	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro, small and 
medium enterprises
1,198.20
1,216.55
Debt securities
21
62,184.73
51,800.04
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
22
2,87,179.89
2,79,869.31
Deposits
23
-
0.70
Subordinated liabilities
24
4,848.77
4,864.63
Lease liability
45
6,556.42
6,664.18
Other financial liabilities
25
4,043.22
4,414.97
2
Non-financial Liabilities
Provisions
26
804.32
724.78
Other non-financial liabilities
27
739.63
2,151.84
Total Liabilities
3,67,558.28
3,51,709.23
3
EQUITY
Equity share capital
1,692.87
1,692.87
Other equity
29
1,22,628.99
1,13,788.15
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
1,24,321.86
1,15,481.02
Non-controlling interest 
46
166.79
288.77
Total Equity
1,24,488.65
1,15,769.79
Total Liabilities and Equity
4,92,046.93
4,67,479.02
See accompanying notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place :Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770 
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: May 09, 2025	
Date: May 09, 2025
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
307
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note No:
For the year ended 
31 March, 2025
For the year ended 
31 March, 2024
Revenue from operations
(i)
Interest income
30 (i)
97,656.46
84,885.27
(ii)
Fees and commission income
30 (ii)
719.28
1,075.89
(iii) Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
30 (iii)
(7.36)
0.01
(iv) Net gain/(loss) on derecognition of financial instruments
30 (iv)
1,233.60
1,832.22
(v)
Dividend income 
30(v)
1.25
-
(vi) Other operating income
30 (vi)
463.71
686.72
(I)
Total Revenue from operations
1,00,066.94
88,480.11
(II)
Other income 
31
341.89
720.78
(III)
Total income (I + II)
1,00,408.83
89,200.89
Expenses
(i)
Finance costs
32
35,409.28
28,657.10
(ii)
Fees and commission expense
33
811.15
505.51
(iii) Impairment on financial instruments
34
19,628.14
5,783.35
(iv) Employee benefits expenses
35
18,417.90
15,973.22
(v)
Depreciation and amortisation
36
2,673.74
2,464.46
(vi) Other expenses 
37
6,812.31
6,222.07
(IV)
Total expenses
83,752.52
59,605.71
(V)
Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III -  IV)
 
16,656.31
29,595.18
(VI)
Exceptional items
-
-
(VII)
Profit before tax (V- VI)
16,656.31
29,595.18
(ViiI) Tax expense:
(1)
Current tax
38
6,364.09
8,008.10
(2)
Deferred tax
38
(1,751.48)
(392.24)
(3) Current tax relating to earlier years
38
5.03
4.37
Total Tax Expense
4,617.64
7,620.23
(IX)
Profit for the year (VII-VIII)
12,038.67
21,974.95
(X)
Other comprehensive income / (loss)
A
(i) 	 Items that will not be re classified to profit or loss 
	
-	
Actuarial gains / (losses) on post retirement benefit plans
(49.96)
(79.59)
(ii)	  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
12.57
9.50
Subtotal (A)
(37.39)
(70.09)
B
(i)	
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 
	
-	
Fair value changes of cash flow hedges, net
23.49
(114.69)
(ii) 	 Fair value changes on Investment held as FVOCI 
76.12
24.18
(iii)	 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 
(25.07)
33.15
Subtotal (B)
74.55
(57.36)
Other comprehensive income / (loss)
37.16
(127.45)
(XI)
Total comprehensive income  (IX+X)
12,075.83
21,847.50
Profit for the year attributable to 
Equity holders of the parent 
12,161.47
21,886.82
Non-controlling interest 
(122.80)
 88.13 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
Equity holders of the parent 
36.31
(126.86)
Non-controlling interest 
0.84
(0.59)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
Equity holders of the parent 
12,197.79
21,759.96
Non-controlling interest 
(121.96)
 87.54 
(XII)
Earnings per equity share 
39
Basic (`)
14.22
25.96
Diluted (`)
14.22
25.96
See accompanying notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place :Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770 
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: May 09, 2025	
Date: May 09, 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
308
Consolidated Statement of  changes in Equity Capital
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
A. 	 Equity share capital
(1)	 For the year ended 31st March, 2025
Balance at the beginning of the current reporting period
Changes in Equity Share 
Capital due to prior 
period errors
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the current 
reporting period
Changes in equity 
share capital during 
the current year
Balance at the end of 
the current reporting 
period
 1,692.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,692.87 
(2)	 For the year ended 31st March, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the current reporting period
Changes in Equity Share 
Capital due to prior 
period errors
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the current 
reporting period
Changes in equity 
share capital during 
the current year
Balance at the end of 
the current reporting 
period
 1,692.79 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
 1,692.87 
B. 	 Other Equity
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment 
Reserves and surplus
Other comprehensive income
Total
Capital 
reserve
Statutory 
reserve u/s 
45-IC of the 
RBI Act, 1934 
and u/s 29C 
of NHB Act, 
1987
Share 
option 
outstanding 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Hedge 
reserve
Impairment 
reserve
Remea-
surement 
of Gain/ 
(Loss On 
Defined 
Benefit 
Plan
Effective 
portion 
of cash 
flow 
hedges
Invest-
ments 
held as 
FVTOCI
Balance as at 1 April 2024
(0.00)
2.91
25,501.38
0.16
50.00
14,200.51
-
3,770.90
69,995.80
5.41
452.08
(134.59)
(80.60)
24.18
1,13,788.14
Changes in accounting policies or prior period 
errors
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restated balance at the beginning of the 
current reporting period
(0.00)
2.91
25,501.38
0.16
50.00
14,200.51
-
3,770.90
69,995.80
5.41
452.08
(134.59)
(80.60)
24.18
1,13,788.14
Dividends
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(3,385.74)
-
-
-
-
-
(3,385.74)
Transfer to/from retained earnings
-
-
3,612.09
-
-
-
-
-
(3,606.68)
(5.41)
-
-
-
-
(0.00)
Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
-
-
31.50
-
-
-
-
-
0.01
-
-
(0.39)
-
-
31.12
Share Issue Expenses
-
-
-
(8.82)
-
-
(7.50)
-
-
-
-
-
(16.32)
Utilised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
(0.43)
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.43)
Options Lapsed during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Profit for the year (net of taxes)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12,175.06
-
-
-
-
-
12,175.06
Other comprehensive income for the year  
(net of taxes)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(37.39)
17.58
56.96
37.15
Balance as at 31 March 2025
(0.00)
2.91
29,144.97
0.16
50.00
14,191.69
-
3,770.47
75,170.95
(0.00)
452.08
(172.37)
(63.02)
81.14
1,22,628.99
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
309
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment 
Reserves and surplus
Other comprehensive income
Total
Capital 
reserve
Statutory 
reserve u/s 
45-IC of the 
RBI Act, 1934 
and u/s 29C 
of NHB Act, 
1987
Share 
option 
outstanding 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Hedge 
reserve
Impairment 
reserve
Remea-
surement 
of Gain/ 
(Loss On 
Defined 
Benefit 
Plan
Effective 
portion 
of cash 
flow 
hedges
Invest-
ments 
held as 
FVTOCI
Balance as at 1 April 2023
(0.00)
2.91
21,229.42
136.30
50.00
14,155.57
-
3,627.02
55,160.95
5.41
452.08
(64.50)
0.94
-
94,756.10
Changes in accounting policies or prior period 
errors
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restated balance at the beginning of the 
current reporting period
(0.00)
2.91
21,229.42
136.30
50.00
14,155.57
-
3,627.02
55,160.95
5.41
452.08
(64.50)
0.94
-
94,756.10
Dividends
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(2,943.18)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,943.18)
Transfer to/from retained earnings
-
-
4,271.96
-
-
-
-
-
(4,271.96)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Utilised during the year
-
-
-
1.69
-
(1,335.22)
-
10.57
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,322.96)
Share premium received during the year
-
-
-
(4.52)
-
1,380.17
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,375.65
Options Lapsed during the year
(133.31)
133.31
-
-
Profit for the year (net of taxes)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
22,049.99
-
-
-
-
-
22,049.99
Other comprehensive income for the year (net 
of taxes)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(70.09)
(81.54)
24.18
(127.45)
Balance as at 31 March  2024
(0.00)
2.91
25,501.38
0.16
50.00
14,200.51
-
3,770.90
69,995.80
5.41
452.08
(134.59)
(80.60)
24.18
1,13,788.15
See accompanying notes forming part of the Consolidated financial statements.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P.  Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place : Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V.  R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770
Place: Mumbai 	
Place: Valapad
Date: 9th May, 2025	
Date: 9th May, 2025
Consolidated Statement of  changes in Equity Capital
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
310
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2024
A.
Cash flow from operating activities
Net profit before tax
 16,656.31 
 29,595.18 
Adjustments for:
Interest income on loans
 (67,337.43)
 (56,125.54)
Depreciation and amortization expense
 2,673.74 
 2,464.46 
Impairment on financial instruments
 17,750.94 
 5,059.70 
	
Bank Charges
 - 
 0.01 
Bad Debts Written off
 0.19 
 - 
Provision for litigation
 - 
 16.41 
Provision no longer required written back
 - 
 0.65 
Provision for other assets
 414.05 
 (30.24)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 (9.53)
 (6.17)
Finance costs
 34,105.76 
 27,760.44 
Interest income from banks, investments and others
 (2,546.81)
 (1,510.61)
Share Based Payment to employees
 - 
 0.43 
Dividend Received
 (1.25)
	
Net actuarial loss that will not be reclassified to profit and loss (OCI)
 (2.02)
 (4.07)
Operational cash flows from interest
Interest received on loans
 63,991.32 
 49,714.50 
Finance Cost and Other Charges
 (30,879.24)
 (18,889.46)
Operating profit before working capital changes
 34,816.04 
 38,045.67 
Changes in working capital:
Changes in working capital:
Decrease / (increase) in non-financial assets
 (83.04)
 94.14 
Decrease / (increase) in loans
 (27,776.10)
 (64,488.10)
Decrease / (increase) in other financial assets
 (1,681.54)
 (1,022.91)
Decrease / (increase) in trade receivables
 (3.96)
 (60.26)
Increase / (decrease) in trade payables
 12.92 
 99.11 
Increase / (decrease) in other financial liabilities
 (2,012.17)
 835.83 
Increase / (decrease) in provisions
 68.26 
 (131.83)
(Increase) / Decrease in Investment 
 (229.59)
 - 
Increase / (decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
 (603.85)
 531.78 
 (32,309.07)
 (64,142.26)
Cash generated from operations
 2,506.97 
 (26,096.58)
Net income tax (paid)
 (7,172.63)
 (8,400.92)
Net cash flows from/(used in) operating activities (A)
 (4,665.66)
 (34,497.50)
B.
Cash flow from investing activities
Capital expenditure, including capital advances
 (1,446.52)
 (1,363.29)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 (511.67)
 8.82 
(Purchase) / Sale of investments
 (1,349.98)
 (5,633.72)
Bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months)
 (106.88)
Interest received
 2,469.51 
 1,441.54 
Dividend received
 1.25 
 0.00 
Bank balances not considered as cash and cash equivalents
 (303.66)
 (459.88)
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities (B)
 (1,247.95)
 (6,006.51)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
311
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2024
C.
Cash flow from financing activities
Debt securities issued (net)
 9,306.35 
 (9,938.64)
Increase in Share Capital
 - 
 41.21 
Borrowings (other than debt securities) issued (net)
 6,852.77 
 53,734.74 
Share issue expenses
 (16.33)
 - 
Commercial Paper (Net)
 (14.50)
Proceeds from issue of equity shares
 0.08 
Share premium on equity shares allotted
 1,463.64 
Share application money received/(refunded)
 - 
 - 
Dividend paid
 (3,385.74)
 (2,943.18)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,433.71)
 (1,426.97)
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (C)
 11,323.35 
 40,916.38 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 5,409.73 
 412.37 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 25,417.15 
 25,004.78 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 30,826.88 
 25,417.15 
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Particulars
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the  year ended 
31st March, 2024
Cash on hand
 1,899.77 
 1,302.15 
Balances with banks - Of the nature of cash and cash equivalents
 11,965.87 
 8,108.46 
Others-
-	
On Cash Credit
 227.68 
 44.69 
-	
Foreign currency balances
 1.16 
 0.64 
-	
Bank deposit with maturity of less than 3 months
 16,732.40 
 15,961.21 
Total
 30,826.88 
 25,417.15 
Note: For disclosures relating to changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, refer note 44.
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place :Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770 
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: May 09, 2025	
Date: May 09, 2025
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
312
Note 1: Corporate information
Manappuram Finance Limited (“MAFIL” or “the Company” or “the 
Holding Company” or “the Parent Company”) is a public limited 
company domiciled in India and incorporated on 15 July 1992 in 
Thrissur, Kerala. The Company’s equity shares are listed on the 
Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited (NSE).
MAFIL is registered with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as a 
Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Non-Banking 
Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI). The Company provides a 
wide range of fund-based and fee-based financial services, 
including gold loans, foreign exchange services, and other 
financial products.
The registration details of the Company are as follows:
Reserve Bank of India Registration Number: B-16.00029
Corporate Identity Number (CIN): L65910KL1992PLC006623
Authorised Dealer (AD-II) Registration No KOC-ADII-0041-2023
PPI (COA)NO: 101/2017
The Company is the ultimate holding company of the following 
subsidiaries (together referred to as ”the Group”):
1. 	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited (MHF):
	
A wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in 2010. 
MHF is registered with the National Housing Bank (NHB) 
as a housing finance company under the National Housing 
Bank Act, 1987.
2.	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited (Asirvad):
	
Incorporated in 2007, Asirvad is a microfinance institution 
registered with the RBI under the provisions of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934.
3.	
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited (Maibro):
	
A wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in 2002. Maibro is 
registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (IRDAI) as an insurance broker.
4.	
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited 
(Macom):
	
Incorporated in 2000, Macom is engaged in information 
technology services, including software development, 
consultancy, and related IT-enabled services.
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for 
the year ended 31 March 2025 were approved for issue in 
accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors on 
09 May 2025.
Note 2: Basis of preparation
The Consolidated financial statements related to the Company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as ‘the Group’). 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been 
prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015 as amended by the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2016, notified under the Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and other relevant provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013. Any applicable guidance / clarifications 
/ directions issued by RBI or other regulators are implemented 
as and when they are issued/ applicable.
The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
on going concern basis in accordance with the Ind AS 1. 
The Management is of the view that the Group shall be able 
to continue its business for the near future and no material 
uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the going 
concern assumption. In making this assessment, the Management 
has considered a wide range of information relating to present 
and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, 
cash flows and capital resources.
The preparation of Consolidated financial statements requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues 
and expenses and the disclosed amount of contingent liabilities. 
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions are significant to the Group 
are discussed in Note 8 - Significant accounting judgements, 
estimates and assumptions.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian 
Rupees in Millions (INR in Millions or ` In Millions) which is also 
the functional currency of the Group and all values are rounded 
to the nearest millions, except when otherwise indicated.
Note 3: Presentation of financial statements:
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are 
presented as per Schedule III (Division III) of the Companies Act, 
2013 applicable to Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFC), as 
notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). The Statement 
of Cash Flows is presented as per the requirements of Ind AS 7 
- Statement of Cash Flows. The Group classifies its assets and 
liabilities as financial and non-financial and presents them in 
the order of liquidity. Financial assets and financial liabilities 
are generally reported on a gross basis except when, there 
is an unconditional legally enforceable right to offset the 
recognised amounts without being contingent on a future event 
and the parties intend to settle on a net basis in the following 
circumstances:
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
313
i. 	
The normal course of business
ii. 	
The event of default
iii. 	
The event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company and/
or its counterparties.
Note 4: Statement of compliance
These Consolidated financial statements of the Group have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards as 
per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
as amended and notified under Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the generally accepted accounting principles as 
referred to in paragraph 2 “Basis of Preparation” above.
Note 5: Basis of consolidation
The Company consolidates a subsidiary when it controls it. 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, 
to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over 
the investee.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and when 
the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar 
rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts 
and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an 
investee, including:
The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of 
the investee
 	
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements.
 	
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights relative to the size 
and dispersion of the holdings of the other voting rights holders.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee 
if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 
one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of 
a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the 
subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the 
subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary 
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains 
control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform 
accounting policies for like transactions and other events 
in similar circumstances. If a member of the Group uses 
accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated 
financial statements for like transactions and events in similar 
circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to that Group 
member’s financial statements in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements to ensure conformity with the Group’s 
accounting policies.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries company used in 
the consolidation are drawn up to the same reporting date as of 
the Company i.e. year ended 31 March 2025 and are prepared 
based on the accounting policies consistent with those used by 
the Group. The Financial statements of the Group have been 
prepared in accordance with the Ind AS 110 - ‘Consolidated 
Financial Statements’ as per the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended by the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2016, notified under Section 133 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the other relevant 
provisions of the Act.
Consolidation procedure:
(a) 	 Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, 
expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its 
subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses of 
the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements at the acquisition date.
(b) 	 Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent’s 
investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s portion of 
equity of each subsidiary. Business combinations policy 
explains how to account for any related goodwill.
(c) 	 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between entities of the Group (profits or losses resulting 
from intragroup transactions that are recognised in assets, 
such as inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). 
Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires 
recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Ind AS 
12 Income Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise 
from the elimination of profits and losses resulting from 
intragroup transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of OCI are attributed 
to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to 
the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the 
non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
314
	
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies 
in line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group 
assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.
Note 6: Material Accounting Policies (Also refer note 2 
above)
6.1	 Financial Instruments
	
(i) 	
Classification of financial instruments
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets into the 
following measurement categories:
	
	
1. 	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
2. 	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
	
	
3. 	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
profit or loss account
	
	
The classification depends on the contractual terms 
of the financial assets’ cash flows and the Group’s 
business model for managing financial assets which 
are explained below:
	
	
Business model assessment
	
	
The Group determines its business model at the level 
that best reflects how it manages groups of financial 
assets to achieve its business objective.
	
	
The Group’s business model is not assessed on an 
instrument-by-instrument, but at a higher level of 
aggregated porfolios and is based on observable 
factors such as:
	
	
 	
Reports reviewed by the entity’s key 
management personnel on the performance of 
the financial assets
	
	
 	
The risks impacting the performance of the 
business model (and the financial assets 
held within that business model) and its 
management thereof
	
	
  	
The compensation of the managing teams (for 
example, whether the compensation is based on 
the fair value of the assets managed or on the 
contractual cash flows collected)
	
	
 	
The expected frequency, value and timing of 
trades. The business model assessment is based 
on reasonably expected scenarios without taking 
‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ scenarios into account. 
The Group also assesses the contractual terms 
of financial assets on the basis of its contractual 
cash flow characteristics that are solely for 
the payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding. For the current 
and prior reporting period the Group has not 
identified a change in its business model.
	
	
The Solely Payments of Principal and Interest 
(SPPI) test
	
	
As a second step of its classification process the 
Group assesses the contractual terms of financial 
assets to identify whether they meet the SPPI test. 
‘Principal’ s defined as the fair value of the financial 
asset at initial recognition and may change over 
the life of the financial asset (for example, if there 
are repayments of principal or amortisation of the 
premium/discount). In making this assessment, the 
Group considers whether the contractual cash flows 
are consistent with a basic lending arrangement i.e. 
interest includes only consideration for the time value 
of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and a 
profit margin that is consistent with a basic lending 
arrangement. Where the contractual terms introduce 
exposure to risk or volatility that are inconsistent with 
a basic lending arrangement, the related financial 
asset is classified and measured at fair value through 
profit or loss. 
	
	
The Group classifies its financial liabilities at amortised 
costs unless it has designated liabilities at fair value 
through the profit and loss account or is required to 
	
The subsidiaries considered in the consolidated financial statements are as below:
Name
Relationship
Country of 
incorporation
Share of ownership 
interest as at 31 
March 2025
Share of ownership 
interest as at 31 
March 2024
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Subsidiary
India
97.60%
97.60%
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
Subsidiary
India
99.81%
99.81%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
315
measure liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
such as derivative liabilities.
	
(ii) 	 Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
These Financial assets comprise bank balances, 
Loans, Trade receivables, investments and other 
financial assets.
	
	
Financial Assets with :
	
	
(a) 	 contractual terms that give rise to cash flows on 
specified dates, and represent solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding; and
	
	
(b) 	 are held within a business model whose objective 
is achieved by holding to collect contractual cash 
flows are measured at amortised cost.
	
	
	
These financial assets are initially recognised at 
fair value plus directly attributable transaction 
costs and subsequently measured at amortised 
cost. Transaction costs are incremental costs 
that are directly attributable to the acquisition, 
issue or disposal of a financial asset or a financial 
liability.
	
(iii) 	 Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
	
	
Debt instruments
	
	
Investments in debt instruments are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income where 
they have:
	
	
a) 	
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows on 
specified dates, that represent solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding; and
	
	
b) 	
are held within a business model whose objective 
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash 
flows and selling financial assets.
	
	
These debt instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value plus directly attributable transaction costs and 
subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value are included in 
other comprehensive income (a separate component 
of equity). Impairment losses or reversals, interest 
revenue and foreign exchange gains and losses 
are recognised in profit and loss. Upon disposal, 
the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income is reclassified from 
equity to the statement of profit and loss. As at the 
reporting date the Group does not have any financial 
instruments measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income.
	
(iv) 	 Equity instruments
	
	
Investment in equity instruments are generally 
accounted for as at fair value through the profit and 
loss account unless An irrevocable election has 
been made by management to account for at fair 
value through other comprehensive income Such 
classification is determined on an instrument-by-
instrument basis.
	
	
Contingent consideration recognised by the Group 
in a business combination to which Ind AS 103 
‘Business Combination’ applies, are measured at fair 
value through profit and loss account, where amounts 
presented in other comprehensive income for equity 
instruments are not subsequently transferred to profit 
or loss. Dividends on such investments are recognised 
in profit or loss.
	
(v) 	 Items at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Items at fair value through profit or loss comprise:
	
	
 	
Investments (including equity shares) held 
for trading;
	
	
 	
Items specifically designated as fair value 
through profit or loss on initial recognition; and
	
	
 	
debt instruments with contractual terms that 
do not represent solely payments of principal 
and interest.
	
	
Financial instruments held at fair value through 
profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, 
with transaction costs recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss as incurred. Subsequently, they 
are measured at fair value and any gains or losses 
are recognised in the statement of profit and loss as 
they arise.
	
(vi) 	 Financial instruments held for trading
	
	
A financial instrument is classified as held for trading 
if it is acquired or incurred principally for selling or 
repurchasing in the near term, or forms part of a 
portfolio of financial instruments that are managed 
together and for which there is evidence of short-term 
profit taking, or it is a derivative not designated in a 
qualifying hedge relationship.
	
	
Trading derivatives and trading securities are classified 
as held for trading and recognised at fair value. 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
316
	
(vii) 	 Equity Investments
	
	
Investment is carried at cost in the Separate 
Financial Statements as permitted under Ind AS 27. 
The Company has accounted for its investment in 
subsidiary at fair value at the time of acquisition due to 
business combination. The investment is subsequently 
measured at cost. All other equity investments are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss.
	
(vii) 	 Derivatives
	
	
A derivative is a financial instrument or other contract 
with all three of the following characteristics:
	
	
	
Its value changes in response to the change in a 
specified interest rate, financial instrument price, 
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index 
of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, 
or other variable, provided that, in the case of a 
non-financial variable, it is not specific to a party 
to the contract (i.e., the ‘underlying’).
	
	
	
It requires no initial net investment or an initial net 
investment that is smaller than would be required 
for other types of contracts expected to have a 
similar response to changes in market factors.
	
	
	
It is settled at a future date.
	
	
The Company enters into derivative transactions with 
various counterparties to hedge its foreign currency 
risks and interest rate risks. Derivative transaction 
consists of hedging of foreign exchange transactions, 
which includes interest rate and currency swaps, 
interest rate options and forwards. The Company 
undertakes derivative transactions for hedging 
on-balance sheet liabilities.
	
	
a) 	
Financial Assets or Liabilities at Fair Value 
through Profit and Loss
	
	
	
This category includes derivative financial 
assets/ liabilities which are not designated 
as hedges.
	
	
	
Although the Group believes that these 
derivative instruments constitute hedges from 
an economic perspective, they may not qualify 
for hedge accounting under Ind AS 109, Financial 
Instruments. Any derivatives that is either not 
designated as a hedge, or is designated but is 
ineffective as per Ind AS 109, is categorised as 
a financial asset or liability, at fair value through 
profit and loss.
	
	
	
Derivatives not designated as hedges are 
recognised initially at fair value and attributable 
transaction costs are recognised in net profit 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss when 
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, these 
derivatives are measured at fair value through 
profit and loss and the resulting exchange gain or 
loss are included in the other income/ expenses.
	
	
b) 	
Cash flow Hedge:
	
	
	
The Group designates certain foreign exchange 
forwards and swaps contracts as cash flow 
hedges to mitigate the risk of foreign exchange 
exposure on certain balance sheet liabilities.
	
	
	
When a derivative is designated as a cash 
flow hedge instrument, the effective portion of 
changes in the fair value of derivative instruments 
is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve.
	
	
	
Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value 
of the derivatives is recognised immediately 
in the net profit in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. If the hedging instrument no longer meets 
the criteria for hedge accounting, then hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, the cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in the cash flow 
hedge reserve till the period the hedge was 
effective remains in cash flow hedge reserve till 
the period the transaction occurs. The cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in the cash 
flow hedge reserve is transferred to the net 
profit in the Statement of Profit and Loss upon 
the occurrence of the related transaction. 
	
(ix) 	 Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
	
After initial measurement, debt issued and other 
borrowed funds are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium on issue funds, 
and transaction costs that are an integral part of the 
Effective Interest Rate (EIR).
	
(x) 	 Recognition and derecognition of financial assets 
and liabilities
	
	
A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in 
the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument, which 
is generally on trade date. Loans and receivables are 
recognised when cash is advanced (or settled) to the 
borrowers. Financial assets at fair value through profit 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
317
or loss are recognised initially at fair value. All other 
financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus directly attributable transaction costs.
	
	
The Group derecognises a financial asset when 
the contractual cash flows from the asset expire 
or it transfers its rights to receive contractual cash 
flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial 
assets that is created or retained by the Group is 
recognised as a separate asset or liability. A financial 
liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when 
the Group has discharged its obligation or the contract 
is cancelled or expires.
	
(xi) 	 Impairment of financial assets
	
	
The Group recognises impairment allowance for 
expected credit loss on financial assets held at 
amortised cost.
	
	
The Group recognises loss allowances (provisions) for 
expected credit losses on its financial assets (including 
undisbursed sanctioned amounts) that are measured 
at amortised costs or at fair value through other 
comprehensive income account.
	
	
The Group applies a three-stage approach to 
measuring expected credit losses (ECLs) for the 
following categories of financial assets that are not 
measured at fair value through profit or loss:
	
	
	
debt instruments measured at amortised cost and 
fair value through other comprehensive income;
	
	
	
loan commitments.
	
	
No ECL is recognised on equity investments.
	
	
Financial assets migrate through the following three 
stages based on the change in credit risk since initial 
recognition:
	
	
Stage 1: 12-months ECL
	
	
For exposures where there has not been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition and that 
are not credit impaired upon origination, the portion 
of the lifetime ECL associated with the probability of 
default events occurring within the next 12 months is 
recognised.
	
	
Stage 2: Lifetime ECL – not credit impaired
	
	
For exposures where there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition but are 
not credit impaired, a lifetime ECL (i.e. reflecting the 
remaining lifetime of the financial asset) is recognised.
	
	
Stage 3: Lifetime ECL- Credit impaired
	
	
Exposures are assessed as credit impaired when 
one or more events that have a detrimental impact 
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset have 
occurred. For exposures that have become credit 
impaired, a lifetime ECL is recognised and interest 
revenue is calculated by applying the effective interest 
rate to the amortised cost (net of provision) rather than 
the gross carrying amount.
	
	
Determining the stage for impairment
	
	
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether 
there has been a significant increase in credit risk 
for exposures since initial recognition by comparing 
the risk of default occurring over the expected life 
between the reporting date and the date of initial 
recognition. The Group considers reasonable and 
supportable information that is relevant and available 
without undue cost or effort for this purpose.
	
	
This includes quantitative and qualitative information 
and also, forward-looking analysis.
	
	
An exposure will migrate through the ECL stages 
as asset quality deteriorates. If, in a subsequent 
period, asset quality improves and also reverses any 
previously assessed significant increase in credit risk 
since origination, then the loss allowances reverts 
from lifetime ECL to 12-months ECL. 
	
	
The loss allowances for these financial assets is based 
on a 12-months ECL.
	
	
When an asset is uncollectible, it is written off against 
the related allowance. Such assets are written off after 
all the necessary procedures have been completed 
and the amount of the loss has been determined. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written 
off reduce the amount of the allowances in the profit 
and loss statement.
	
	
The Group assesses whether the credit risk on an 
exposure has increased significantly on an individual 
or collective basis. For the purposes of a collective 
evaluation of impairment, financial instruments 
are grouped on the basis of shared credit risk 
characteristics, taking into account instrument type, 
credit risk ratings, date of initial recognition, remaining 
term to maturity, industry, geographical location of the 
borrower and other relevant factors.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
318
	
	
Measurement of ECLs
	
	
ECLs 
are 
derived 
from 
unbiased 
and 
probability-weighted estimates of expected loss, and 
are measured as follows:
	
	
	
Financial assets that are not credit-impaired 
at the reporting date: as the present value of 
all cash shortfalls over the expected life of 
the financial asset discounted by the effective 
interest rate. The cash shortfall is the difference 
between the cash flows due to the Group in 
accordance with the contract and the cash flows 
that the Group expects to receive. The Group has 
grouped its various financial assets in to pools 
containing loans bearing homogeneous risks 
characteristics. The probability of default for 
the pools are computed based on the historical 
trends, adjusted for any forward looking factors. 
Similarly the Group computes the Loss Given 
Default based on the recovery rates.
	
	
	
Financial assets that are credit-impaired at the 
reporting date: as the difference between the 
gross carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows discounted by the 
effective interest rate.
	
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments: as the present 
value of the difference between the contractual 
cash flows that are due to the Group if the 
commitment is drawn down and the cash flows 
that the Group expects to receive.
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts: as the expected 
payments to reimburse the holder less any 
amounts that the Group expects to recover.
	
	
ECL on Debt instruments measured at fair value 
through OCI
	
	
The ECLs for debt instruments measured at FVOCI 
do not reduce the carrying amount of these financial 
assets in the balance sheet, which remains at fair value. 
Instead, an amount equal to the allowance that would 
arise if the assets were measured at amortised cost 
is recognised in OCI as an accumulated impairment 
amount, with a corresponding charge to profit or loss. 
The accumulated loss recognised in OCI is recycled to 
the profit and loss upon derecognition of the assets. 
As at the reporting date the Group does not have any 
debt instruments measured at fair value through OCI.
	
	
The mechanics of ECL
	
	
The Group calculates ECLs based on 
probability-weighted scenarios to measure 
the expected cash shortfalls, discounted at an 
approximation to the EIR. A cash shortfall is the 
difference between the cash flows that are due to the 
Group in accordance with the contract and the cash 
flows that the Group expects to receive.
	
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined 
below and the key elements are, as follows:
	
	
Probability of Default (PD) - The Probability of Default 
is an estimate of the likelihood of default over a given 
time horizon. A default may only happen at a certain 
time over the assessed period, if the facility has 
not been previously derecognised and is still in the 
portfolio.
	
	
Exposure at Default (EAD) - The Exposure at Default 
is an estimate of the exposure at a future default date.
	
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) - The Loss Given Default 
is an estimate of the loss arising in the case where 
a default occurs at a given time. It is based on the 
difference between the contractual cash flows due 
and those that the Group would expect to receive, 
including from the realisation of any collateral. It is 
usually expressed as a percentage of the EAD.
	
	
Forward looking information
	
	
While estimating the expected credit losses, the 
Group reviews macro-economic developments 
occurring in the economy and the market it operates 
in. Macro-economic regression models are built to 
identify the key macroeconomic factors (independent 
variables) that drive the default rates. The best 
possible single variable linear regression model 
is identified basis the R-square and the economic 
intuition of the relationship between the independent 
variable and the default rates. The Group considers 
various external factors such as GDP growth, 
inflation, weighted average lending rate of Scheduled 
Commercial Banks etc., as macro-economic factors 
affecting the Company’s ECL estimates and the 
most relevant macro-economic factor affecting the 
particular loan product is factored in while arriving 
at the PD of that product. The Company formulated 
three different macro-economic stress scenarios 
under the premise of mild stress, medium stress and 
severe stress condition. The medium stress scenario 
largely reflected the current economic conditions, 
and accordingly was used for ECL modelling. On a 
periodic basis, the Company monitors the situation 
and economic factors affecting the operations of 
the company and assesses the requirement of any 
modification to ECL model.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
319
	
	
ECL on Investment in Government securities
	
	
The Company has invested in Government of India 
loans. Investment in Government securities are 
classified under stage 1. No ECL has been applied on 
these investments as there is no history of delay in 
servicing of interest/ repayments. The Company does 
not expect any delay in interest/redemption servicing 
in future.
	
	
ECL on Loans secured by the Company’s fixed deposit
	
	
No ECL has been applied on loans given against the 
Company’s fixed deposit as they are fully secured by 
the Company’s fixed deposits.
	
	
ECL on Fixed Deposits with Banks
	
	
No ECL is applied on fixed deposit held with banks 
as there is no history of default. However, in case of 
any downgrade in the credit rating of the banks where 
fixed deposit is held, the Company would provide for 
ECL computed in an appropriate methodology.
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments
	
	
When estimating ECL for undrawn loan commitments, 
a credit conversion factor of 100% is applied for 
expected drawdown. The Company discloses ECL 
allowance on undrawn loan commitments under the 
head ‘Provisions’ under non-financial liabilities.
	
	
Collateral Valuation
	
	
To mitigate its credit risks on financial assets, the 
Group seeks to use collateral, where possible. 
The collateral comes in various forms, such as 
movable and immovable assets, guarantees, , etc. 
However, the fair value of collateral affects the 
calculation of ECLs. To the extent possible, the Group 
uses active market data for valuing financial assets 
held as collateral. Other financial assets which do 
not have readily determinable market values are 
valued using models. Non-financial collateral, such 
as vehicles, is valued based on data provided by third 
parties or management judgements.
	
	
Collateral repossessed
	
	
In its normal course of business whenever default 
occurs, the Group may take possession of properties 
or other assets in its retail portfolio and generally 
disposes such assets through auction, to settle 
outstanding debt. Any surplus funds are returned to 
the customers/obligors. As a result of this practice, 
assets under legal repossession processes are not 
recorded on the balance sheet. However, in one of the 
subsidiary’s such repossessed assets are recorded in 
the books.
	
(xii) 	 Write-offs
	
	
The Group reduces the gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset when the Group has no reasonable 
expectations of recovering a financial asset in its 
entirety or a portion thereof. This is generally the 
case when the Group determines that the borrower 
does not have assets or sources of income that could 
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts 
subjected to write-offs. Any subsequent recoveries 
against such loans are credited to the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
(xiii)	 Determination of fair value
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date, regardless of whether that price 
is directly observable or estimated using another 
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of 
an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account 
the characteristics of the asset or liability if market 
participants would take those characteristics into 
account when pricing the asset or liability at the 
measurement date. The Financial assets and liabilities 
are presented in ascending order of their liquidity. 
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure 
purposes in these financial statements is determined 
on such a basis, except for share-based payment 
transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 102, 
leasing transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 
116, and measurements that have some similarities to 
fair value but are not fair value, such as value in use in 
Ind AS 36.
	
	
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value 
measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2, or 3 
based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 
measurements are observable and the significance of 
the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, 
which are described as follows:
	
	
	
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities that 
the entity can access at the measurement date;
	
	
	
Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices 
included within Level 1, that are observable 
for the asset or liability ,either directly or 
indirectly; and
	
	
	
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the 
asset or liability.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
320
	
	
The Group recognises transfers between levels of 
the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred. No such 
instances of transfers between levels of the fair value 
hierarchy were recorded during the reporting period.
	
	
Difference between transaction price and fair value 
at initial recognition
	
	
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial 
instrument at initial recognition is the transaction 
price (i.e. the fair value of the consideration given or 
received) unless the fair value of that instrument is 
evidenced by comparison with other observable 
current market transactions in the same instrument 
(i.e. without modification or repackaging) or based on 
a valuation technique whose variables include only 
data from observable markets. When such evidence 
exists, the Group recognises the difference between 
the transaction price and the fair value in profit or loss 
on initial recognition (i.e. on day one).
	
	
When the transaction price of the instrument 
differs from the fair value at origination and the fair 
value is based on a valuation technique using only 
inputs observable in market transactions, the Group 
recognises the difference between the transaction 
price and fair value in net gain on fair value changes. 
In those cases where fair value is based on models 
for which some of the inputs are not observable, the 
difference between the transaction price and the fair 
value is deferred and is only recognised in profit or 
loss when the inputs become observable, or when the 
instrument is derecognised.
6.2.	 Revenue from operations
	
(i)	
Interest Income
	
	
Interest income is recognised by applying the Effective 
Interest Rate (EIR) to the gross carrying amount of 
financial assets measured through amortised cost 
method other than credit-impaired assets and financial 
assets classified as measured at FVTPL.
	
	
Interest income on credit impaired assets is 
recognised by applying the effective interest rate to 
the net amortised cost (net of ECL provision) of the 
financial asset.
	
	
Interest on delayed payments by customers are 
treated to accrue only on realisation, due to uncertainty 
of realisation and are accounted accordingly.
	
	
Excess Interest spread on direct assignment of loan 
receivables is recognised upfront. On derecognition 
of the loan receivables in its entirety, the difference 
between the carrying amount (measured at the date 
of derecognition) and the consideration received 
(including any new asset obtained less any new 
liability assumed) shall be recognised upfront in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
The EIR in case of a financial asset is computed
	
	
a. 	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of 
the financial asset to the gross carrying amount 
of a financial asset.
	
	
b. 	
By considering all the contractual terms of the 
financial instrument in estimating the cash flows
	
	
c. 	
Including all fees received between parties to the 
contract that are an integral part of the effective 
interest rate, transaction costs, and all other 
premiums or discounts.
	
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of the 
future cash flows is recognised in interest income with 
the corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount 
of the assets.
	
(ii) 	 Dividend Income
	
	
Dividend income is recognised
	
	
a. 	
When the right to receive the payment is 
established,
	
	
b. 	
it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with the dividend will flow to the 
entity and
	
	
c. 	
the amount of the dividend can be 
measured reliably
	
(iii) 	 Fees & Commission Income
	
	
Fees and commissions other than those which 
forms part of EIR are recognised when the Group 
satisfies the performance obligation, at fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable based on a 
five-step model as set out below, unless included in 
the effective interest calculation:
	
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer: A 
contract is defined as an agreement between two 
or more parties that creates enforceable rights and 
obligations and sets out the criteria for every contract 
that must be met.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
321
	
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in the 
contract: A performance obligation is a promise in a 
contract with a customer to transfer a good or service 
to the customer.
	
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price: The 
transaction price is the amount of consideration to 
which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for 
transferring promised goods or services to a customer, 
excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
	
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract: For a contract 
that has more than one performance obligation, 
the Group allocates the transaction price to each 
performance obligation in an amount that depicts 
the amount of consideration to which the Group 
expects to be entitled in exchange for satisfying each 
performance obligation.
	
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the Group 
satisfies a performance obligation.
	
	
Processing fee which is not form part of effective 
interest rate has been recognised as and when it 
is accrue.
	
(iv) 	 Net gain/(loss) on Fair value changes
	
	
Any differences between the fair values of financial 
assets classified as fair value through the profit or 
loss , held by the Group on the balance sheet date is 
recognised as an unrealised gain / loss. In cases there 
is a net gain in the aggregate, the same is recognised 
in “Net gains on fair value changes” under Revenue 
from operations and if there is a net loss the same 
is disclosed under “Expenses” in the statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on sale of financial 
instruments measured at FVTPL presented separately 
under the respective head in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
However, net gain / loss on derecognition of financial 
instruments classified as amortised cost is presented 
separately under the respective head in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
(v) 	 Net gain/ loss on derecognition of financial 
instruments under amortised cost category
	
	
In case where transfer of a part of financial assets 
qualifies for de-recognition, any difference between 
the proceeds received on such sale and the carrying 
value of the transferred asset is recognised as gain 
or loss on derecognition of such financial asset 
previously carried under amortisation cost category 
is presented separately under the respective head 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The resulting 
interest only strip initially is recognised at FVTPL 
under interest income.
6.3.	Expenses
	
(i) 	
Finance costs
	
	
Finance costs represents Interest expense recognised 
by applying the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) to the 
gross carrying amount of financial liabilities.
	
	
The EIR in case of a financial liability is computed
	
	
a. 	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability to the gross carrying 
amount of the amortised cost of a financial 
liability.
	
	
b. 	
By considering all the contractual terms of the 
financial instrument in estimating the cash flows
	
	
c. 	
Including all fees paid between parties to the 
contract that are an integral part of the effective 
interest rate, transaction costs, and all other 
premiums or discounts.
	
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of the 
future cash flows is recognised in interest income with 
the corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount 
of the assets.
	
(ii) 	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
	
Short term employee benefit
	
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve 
months of rendering the service are classified as 
short-term employee benefits. These benefits include 
short term compensated absences such as paid 
annual leave. The undiscounted amount of short-term 
employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange 
for the services rendered by employees is recognised 
as an expense during the period. Benefits such as 
salaries and wages, etc. and the expected cost of the 
bonus/ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which 
the employee renders the related service.
	
	
Post-employment employee benefits
	
	
a) 	
Defined contribution schemes
	
	
	
Short term employee benefit
	
	
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within 
twelve months of rendering the service 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
322
are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. These benefits include short 
term compensated absences such as paid 
annual leave. The undiscounted amount of 
short-term employee benefits expected to 
be paid in exchange for the services rendered 
by employees is recognised as an expense 
during the period. Benefits such as salaries and 
wages, etc. and the expected cost of the bonus/
ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which 
the employee renders the related service.
	
	
Post-employment employee benefits
	
	
a) 	
Defined contribution schemes
	
	
	
All the employees of the Group are entitled to 
receive benefits under the Provident Fund and 
Employees State Insurance scheme, defined 
contribution plans in which both the employee 
and the Group contribute monthly at a stipulated 
rate. The Group has no liability for future benefits 
other than its annual contribution and recognises 
such contributions as an expense in the period 
in which employee renders the related service. 
If the contribution payable to the scheme for 
service received before the Balance Sheet 
date exceeds the contribution already paid, the 
deficit payable to the scheme is recognised as a 
liability after deducting the contribution already 
paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before the 
Balance Sheet date, then excess is recognised 
as an asset to the extent that the pre-payment 
will lead to, for example, a reduction in future 
payment or a cash refund.
	
	
b) 	
Defined Benefit schemes
	
	
	
The group provides for the gratuity, a defined 
benefit retirement plan covering all employees. 
The plan provides for lump sum payments to 
employees upon death while in employment or 
on separation from employment after serving 
for the stipulated years mentioned under ‘The 
Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’. The present 
value of the obligation under such defined 
benefit plan is determined based on actuarial 
valuation, carried out by an independent actuary 
at each Balance Sheet date, using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method, which recognizes each 
period of service as giving rise to an additional 
unit of employee benefit entitlement and 
measures each unit separately to build up the 
final obligation.
	
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present value 
of the estimated future cash flows. The discount 
rates used for determining the present value of 
the obligation under defined benefit plan are 
based on the market yields on Government 
Securities as at the Balance Sheet date.
	
	
	
Net interest recognized in profit or loss is 
calculated by applying the discount rate used to 
measure the defined benefit obligation to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. The actual return 
on the plan assets above or below the discount 
rate is recognized as part of re-measurement 
of net defined liability or asset through other 
comprehensive income. An actuarial valuation 
involves making various assumptions that may 
differ from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the discount 
rate, attrition rate, future salary increases and 
mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved 
in the valuation and its long-term nature, 
these liabilities are highly sensitive to changes 
in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed annually.
	
	
	
The group fully contributes all ascertained 
liabilities to LIC without routing it through Trust 
bank account. Trustees administer, contributions 
made to the trust and contributions are invested 
in a scheme of insurance with the IRDA approved 
Insurance Company
	
	
	
Re-measurement, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses and the return on plan 
assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability), are 
recognized immediately in the balance sheet 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through OCI in the period in which they 
occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to 
profit and loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
	
Other long-term employee benefits
	
	
	
Group’s liabilities towards compensated 
absences to employees are accrued on the 
basis of valuations, as at the Balance Sheet date, 
carried out by an independent actuary using 
Projected Unit Credit Method. Actuarial gains and 
losses comprise experience adjustments and the 
effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and 
are recognised immediately in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
323
	
	
	
The Company presents the Provision for 
compensated absences under provisions in the 
Balance Sheet.
	
	
	
The group has formulated Employee Stock 
Option Schemes (ESOS) in accordance with 
the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme and 
Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 
1999. The Scheme provide for grant of options to 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries 
to acquire equity shares of the Company that 
vest in a graded manner and that are to be 
exercised within a specified period. The grant 
date fair value of equity settled share based 
payment awards granted to employees is 
recognised as an employee expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period 
that the employees unconditionally become 
entitled to the awards. The amount recognised 
in employee benefits expenses/investment 
in subsidiary together with a corresponding 
increase in employee stock option outstanding 
account in other equity is based on the estimate 
of the number of awards for which the related 
service and non-market vesting conditions 
are expected to be met, such that the amount 
ultimately recognised as an expense is based on 
the number of awards that do meet the related 
service and non-market vesting conditions at the 
vesting date.
	
(iii)	 Other income and expenses
	
	
All Other income and expense are recognized in the 
period they occur.
	
(iv) 	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The carrying amount of assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/external factors. 
An impairment loss is recognized wherever the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the greater 
of the assets, net selling price and value in use. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and risks 
specific to the asset.
	
	
In determining net selling price, recent market 
transactions are taken into account, if available. If no 
such transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. After impairment, depreciation 
is provided on the revised carrying amount of the 
asset over its remaining useful life.
	
(v) 	 Taxes
	
	
Current Tax
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and 
prior years are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. 
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the 
amount are those that are enacted, or substantively 
enacted, by the reporting date in the countries where 
the Group operates and generates taxable income.
	
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or 
loss (either in other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the 
underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are only recognised for temporary 
differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits 
if it is probable that future taxable amounts will arise 
to utilise those temporary differences and losses. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting 
date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets and liabilities and they relate to income 
taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same 
taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they 
intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a 
net basis or their tax assets and liabilities are realised 
simultaneously.
	
	
Goods and services tax /value added taxes paid on 
acquisition of assets or on incurring expenses
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
324
	
	
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the goods 
and services tax/ value added taxes paid, except:
	
	
i. 	
When the tax incurred on a purchase of assets 
or services is not recoverable from the taxation 
authority, in which case, the tax paid is recognised 
as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item, as applicable.
	
	
ii. 	
When receivables and payables are stated with 
the amount of tax included.
	
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or payable to, 
the taxation authority is included as part of receivables 
or payables in the balance sheet.
6.4 	Foreign currency translation
	
(i) 	
Functional and presentational currency
	
	
The consolidated financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees which is also functional currency of 
the Group and the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates.
	
(ii) 	 Transactions and balances
	
	
Initial recognition:
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
	
	
Conversion:
	
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currency, which are outstanding as at the reporting 
date, are translated at the reporting date at the closing 
exchange rate and the resultant exchange differences 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
Non–monetary items that are measured at historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot 
exchange rates as at the date of recognition.
6.5	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents comprise the net amount of 
short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash (short-term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months or less) and are 
subject to an insignificant risk of change in value, cheques 
on hand and balances with banks. They are held for the 
purposes of meeting short-term cash commitments (rather 
than for investment or other purposes).
	
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and short- term deposits, 
as defined above.
6.6	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are measured at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment, 
(if any). The total cost of assets comprises its purchase price, 
freight, duties, taxes and any other incidental expenses 
directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location 
and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating 
in the manner intended by the management. Changes in 
the expected useful life are accounted for by changing the 
amortisation period or methodology, as appropriate, and 
treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of tangible 
asset are added to its gross value only if it increases the 
future benefits of the existing asset, beyond its previously 
assessed standards of performance and cost can be 
measured reliably. Other repairs and maintenance costs 
are expensed off as and when incurred.
	
Depreciation
	
Depreciation is calculated using the Straight Line Method 
(SLM) to write down the cost of property and equipment 
to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as 
specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 except 
for Leasehold improvements which are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the period of lease or estimated period 
of useful life of such improvement, subject to a maximum 
period of 60 months. Leasehold improvements include all 
expenditure incurred on the leasehold premises that have 
future economic benefits.and Asirvad Micro Finance Limited 
is following WDV method. Land is not depreciated.
	
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Particulars 
Useful life of assets
Computer equipment
- End User equipment
3 years
- Server*
6 years
Furniture & Fixture
 - Safe and strong rooms
10 years
 - Others*
3-5 years
Office Equipment*
3 years
Electrical Fittings
3 years
Buildings
30 years
Vehicles
8 years
Leasehold improvements
Rent agreement period
Plant & Machinery
15 years
	
*The Group has estimated useful life which is different for 
Schedule II useful life’s based on technical advice obtained by the 
management.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation 
of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each 
financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
325
	
Property plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal 
or when no future economic benefits are expected from 
its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) 
is recognised in other income / expense in the statement 
of profit and loss in the year the asset is derecognised. 
The date of disposal of an item of property, plant and 
equipment is the date the recipient obtains control of that 
item in accordance with the requirements for determining 
when a performance obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115.
6.7 	 Capital Work In Progress
	
PPE not ready for the intended use on the date of the 
Balance Sheet are disclosed as “capital work-in-progress” 
and carried at cost, comprising direct cost, related incidental 
expenses and attributable interest.
6.8 	Intangible assets
	
An intangible asset is recognised only when its cost can 
be measured reliably and it is probable that the expected 
future economic benefits that are attributable to it will flow 
to the Group.
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on 
initial recognition at cost. The cost of an intangible asset 
comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable 
expenditure on making the asset ready for its intended use 
and net of any trade discounts and rebates. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to 
be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life. 
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for 
an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at 
least at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected 
useful life, or the expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset, are accounted 
for by changing the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, which are then treated as changes in 
accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on 
intangible assets with finite lives is presented as a separate 
line item in the statement of profit and loss. Amortisation on 
assets acquired/sold during the year is recognised on a 
pro-rata basis to the Statement of Profit and Loss from / 
up to the date of acquisition/sale.
	
Amortisation is calculated using the straight–line method 
to write down the cost of intangible assets to their residual 
values over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets 
comprising of software are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over a period of 6 years, unless it has a shorter 
useful life.
	
The Group’s intangible assets consist of computer software 
with definite life.
	
Gains or losses from derecognition of intangible assets 
are measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the 
asset is derecognised.
6.9	 Investment Property
	
Properties, held to earn rentals and/or capital appreciation 
are classified as investment property and measured and 
reported at cost, including transaction costs. For transition 
to Ind AS, the Group has elected to adopt as deemed cost, 
the carrying value of investment property as per Indian 
GAAP less accumulated depreciation and cumulative 
impairment (if any) as on the transition date of April 1, 2017.
	
Depreciation is recognised using straight line method so as 
to write off the cost of the investment property less their 
residual values over their useful lives specified in Schedule 
II to the Companies Act, 2013 or in case of assets where 
the useful life was determined by technical evaluation, 
over the useful life so determined. Depreciation method is 
reviewed at each financial year end to reflect the expected 
pattern of consumption of the future benefits embodied 
in the investment property. The estimated useful life and 
residual values are also reviewed at each financial year end 
and the effect of any change in the estimates of useful life/
residual value is accounted on prospective basis.
	
An investment property is derecognised upon disposal or 
when the investment property is permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefits are expected 
from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition 
of property is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
in the same period.
6.10	Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the enterprise has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past events, 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, 
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation.
	
When the effect of the time value of money is material, the 
enterprise determines the level of provision by discounting 
the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate reflecting the 
current rates specific to the liability. The expense relating 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
326
to any provision is presented in the statement of profit and 
loss net of any reimbursement.
6.11	 Contingent Assets and Liabilities
	
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past 
events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the 
occurrence or non occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the entity. 
The Group does not recognize or disclose contingent asset 
in the financial statements.
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events beyond the control of the Group or a present 
obligation that is not recognized because it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare 
cases where there is a liability that cannot be recognized 
because it cannot be measured reliably. The Company 
does not recognize a contingent liability but discloses its 
existence in the financial statements.
6.12	Earning Per Share
	
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per share 
in accordance with Ind AS 33 on Earnings per share. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss 
for the year attributable to equity shareholders (after 
deducting preference dividend and attributable taxes) by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, 
the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year are adjusted for the effects 
of all dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive potential 
equity shares are deemed converted as of the beginning 
of the period, unless they have been issued at a later date. 
In computing the dilutive earnings per share, only potential 
equity shares that are dilutive and that either reduces the 
earnings per share or increases loss per share are included.
6.13	Segment Reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker (CODM).
	
The Board of Directors (BOD) of the Holding Company 
assesses the financial performance and position of the 
Company, and makes strategic decisions. The BOD of 
Holding Company, which has been identified as being the 
chief operating decision maker. The CODM has identified 
two reportable segments 1. Gold Loan and others, 2. 
Microfinance.
6.14	Leases
	
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the lease term 
as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with 
any option to extend or terminate the lease, if the use of 
such option is reasonably certain. The Group makes an 
assessment on the expected lease term on a lease-by-
lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably 
certain that any options to extend or terminate the contract 
will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Group 
considers factors such as any significant leasehold 
improvements undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of the lease and the importance 
of the underlying asset to Group’s operations taking into 
account the location of the underlying asset and the 
availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects 
the current economic circumstances.
	
The Group as a lessee
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases 
for land and buildings. The Group assesses whether 
a contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. 
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period 
of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset, the Group assesses whether: (i) the contract involves 
the use of an identified asset (ii) the Group has substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the asset through 
the period of the lease and (iii) the Group has the right to 
direct the use of the asset.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the Group 
recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a corresponding 
lease liability for all lease arrangements in which it is a 
lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or 
less (short-term leases) and low value leases. For these 
short-term and low value leases, the Group recognizes the 
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. 
ROU assets and lease liabilities includes these options 
when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
327
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over the 
shorter of the lease term and useful life of the underlying 
asset. Right of use assets are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. 
the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-
use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless 
the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the Cash Generating 
Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at 
the present value of the future lease payments. The lease 
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit 
in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country of domicile 
of these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related right of use asset 
if the Company changes its assessment if whether it will 
exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately 
presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
6.15	Business Combination
	
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for 
business combinations. The consideration transferred for 
the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises of the,
	
-	
fair values of the assets transferred,
	
-	
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the 
acquired business,
	
-	
equity interests issued by the Group and
	
-	
fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement
	
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess 
of the fair value of consideration over the identifiable net 
asset acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the consideration 
is lower, the gain is recognised directly in equity as capital 
reserve. In case, business acquisition is classified as bargain 
purchase, the aforementioned gain is recognised in the 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as 
capital reserve. The Group recognises any noncontrolling 
interest in the acquired entity at fair value.
	
Changes in ownership that do not result in a change of control 
are accounted for as equity transactions and therefore do 
not have any impact on goodwill. The difference between 
consideration and the non-controlling share of net assets 
acquired is recognised within equity. Business combinations 
involving entities or businesses under common control 
are accounted for using the pooling of interest method. 
Under pooling of interest method, the assets and liabilities 
of the combining entities are reflected at their carrying 
amounts, with adjustments only to harmonise accounting 
policies. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the 
acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously 
held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair 
value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising 
from such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss 
or other comprehensive income, as appropriate.
	
If the initial accounting for a business combination can 
be determined only provisionally by the end of the first 
reporting period, the business combination is accounted 
for using provisional amounts. Adjustments to provisional 
amounts, and the recognition of newly identified asset and 
liabilities, must be made within the ‘measurement period’ 
where they reflect new information obtained about facts 
and circumstances that were in existence at the acquisition 
date. The measurement period cannot exceed one year 
from the acquisition date and no adjustments are permitted 
after one year except to correct an error.
	
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the 
Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability 
is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted 
for within equity.
7. 	
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions
	
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
the Ind AS requires the management to make judgments, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and 
the grouping disclosure and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities, at the end of the reporting period. Estimates and 
underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimates are revised and future 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
328
periods are affected. Although these estimates are based 
on the management’s best knowledge of current events 
and actions, uncertainty about these assumptions and 
estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities 
in future periods.
	
In particular, information about significant areas of 
estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant effect 
on the amounts recognized in the financial statements is 
included in the following notes:
7.1 	 Defined employee benefit assets and liabilities
	
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the 
present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the determination 
of the discount rate; future salary increases and mortality 
rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and 
its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions 
are reviewed annually.
7.2 	 Impairment of loans portfolio
	
The measurement of impairment losses across all categories 
of financial assets requires judgement, in particular, the 
estimation of the amount and timing of future cash flows 
and collateral values when determining impairment losses 
and the assessment of a significant increase in credit risk. 
These estimates are driven by a number of factors, changes 
in which can result in different levels of allowances.
	
It has been the Group’s policy to regularly review its ECL 
models in the context of actual loss experience and adjust 
when necessary.
	
The impairment loss on loans and advances is disclosed in 
more detail in Note 6.1(ix) Overview of ECL principles.
7.3 	 Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method
	
The Group’s EIR methodology, recognises interest income 
/ expense using a rate of return that represents the best 
estimate of a constant rate of return over the expected 
behavioural life of loans given / taken and recognises the 
effect of potentially different interest rates at various stages 
and other characteristics of the product life cycle (including 
prepayments and penalty interest and charges).
	
This estimation, by nature, requires an element of judgement 
regarding the expected behaviour and life-cycle of the 
instruments, as well expected changes to India’s base rate 
and other fee income/expense that are integral parts of the 
instrument.
8. 	 Recent Pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) notifies new standards 
or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time 
to time. For the year ended 31 March 2025, MCA has 
notified Ind AS – 117 Insurance Contracts, amendments 
to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to sale and leaseback 
transactions applicable to the Company w.e.f. 01 April 2024, 
amendment to Ind AS 21 - which pertains to the effects 
of changes in foreign exchange rates, to provide clarity 
on assessing currency exchangeability, estimating spot 
exchange rates, and improving disclosure requirements 
which is applicable w.e.f 1 April 2025 onwards. 
The Company has reviewed the new pronouncements and 
based on its evaluation has determined that it does not have 
any significant impact in its financial statements.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
329
Note 9: Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
Cash on hand
 1,899.77 
 1,302.15 
Balances with banks - (Of the nature of cash and cash equivalents)
 11,965.87 
 8,108.46 
Others-
-	
On Cash Credit
 227.68 
 44.69 
-	
Foreign currency balances
 1.16 
 0.64 
-	
Bank deposit with maturity of less than 3 months*
 16,732.40 
 15,961.21 
Total
 30,826.88 
 25,417.15 
*Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash 
requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.These bank deposits includes its related 
accrued interest.
There is no restriction with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at end of the financial year 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024.
Note 10: Bank balance other than above
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
Deposits with original maturity for more than 3 months*
 7,207.03 
 6,179.72 
Earmarked Balances with Banks**
 43.00 
 215.63 
Total
 7,250.03 
 6,395.35 
* Includes:
a)	
Cash collateral deposits aggregating to `5302.17 Mn (31 March 2024: `4820.36 Mn) towards bank facilities. The cash collateral deposits are 
provided as an additional security to the banks for extending approved bank facilities.
b)	
Deposits amounting to ` 171.97 Mn (As at 31 March 2024: `430.16) placed as credit enhancement (cash collateral)  on account of securitization
** These earmarked balances with Bank include balances pertaining to unpaid NCD trustee account, unpaid auction surplus deposit and unpaid dividend 
account.
Note 11: Loans
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
LOANS AT AMORTISED COST 
(A)
 i)	
Term loans 
	
-	
Gold loan 
2,70,194.49
2,27,027.00
	
-	
Commercial vehicle Loan 
43,561.64
39,145.16
	
-	
Mortgage/Property Loan
203.00
227.18
	
-	
Onlending 
5,153.77
9,885.53
	
-	
Corporate finance 
2.70
4.10
	
-	
Home loan 
12,600.75
10,668.10
	
-	
Microfinance loan 
66,851.64
96,414.86
	
-	
Others  
34,254.72
31,751.76
 Total (A) - Gross 
4,32,822.71
4,15,123.69
Less: (B) - Impairment loss allowance
10,307.16
5,648.02
Total (C) - Net = (A-B) - Net
4,22,515.55
4,09,475.67
(D)
-
i) 	
Secured by tangible assets
4,29,702.94
3,11,082.22
ii) 	
Unsecured
3,119.77
1,04,041.47
Total (D) - Gross
4,32,822.71
4,15,123.69
Less: (E) - Impairment loss allowance 
10,307.16
5,648.02
Total (F) = (D-E) - Net
4,22,515.55
4,09,475.67
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
330
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(I)	
Loans Outside India
-
	
i) 	
Public Sector
-
-
	
ii) 	
Others
-
-
(II)	
Loans In India 
	
i)	
Public Sector 
-
-
	
ii)	
Others
4,32,822.71
4,15,123.69
Total (G) - Gross
4,32,822.71
4,15,123.69
Less (H) - Impairment loss allowance
10,307.16
5,648.02
Total (I) = (G-H) - Net
4,22,515.55
4,09,475.67
Details of loans pledged as securities against borrowings have been appropriately disclosed in note 22.
The following tables explain the changes in the loans and the corresponding impairment loss allowance between the beginning and 
the end of the Financial Year 2024-25:
FY 24-25
TOTAL
 Stage I 
Loans 
Stage I 
ECL
Stage II 
Loans
Stage II 
ECL
Stage III 
Loans
Stage III 
ECL 
 Total Loans  Total ECL 
Opening Balance
 398,632.41  2,339.70 
 5,221.88 
228.98  11,269.39 
3,079.34 
415,123.69  5,648.02 
Transfer to Stage I
 339.60 
 43.84 
 (280.18)
 (1.16)
 (92.66)
 (41.22)
(33.24)
 1.46 
Transfer to Stage II
 (10,976.47) (1,036.60)
 5,690.18 
 107.64 
 (41.55)
 (0.64)
(5,327.85)
 (929.60)
Transfer to Stage III
 (11,017.33)
(4,915.75)
 (803.82)
 (175.42)
 5,531.19 
1,053.23 
(6,289.97) (4,037.94)
Write off
 (9,469.08)
(4,717.20)  (1,746.66)
(824.11)
 (1,685.41)
 (721.60)
(12,901.15)
(6,262.91)
Impact of changes in credit risk 
on account of stage movement
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes in opening credit 
exposures (repayment net of 
additional disbursement)
 
(235,187.25)
 (370.51)  (1,520.63)
 (31.86)  (5,271.84)  (1,478.66)
(241,979.71)
(1,881.03)
New Credit Exposures during 
the year, net of repayments*
268,370.96  11,597.97 
 7,467.12  1,763.46  8,392.86 
 4,407.74 284,230.94 
 17,769.17 
Closing Balance
400,692.84 
 2,941.45 14,027.89 1,067.52  18,101.99 
 6,298.19  432,822.71 10,307.16 
*New Credit Exposures during the year, net of repayments has been presented on net basis i.e. the collections towards loans has been netted off. for 
one of the subsidiary as shown in their individual financial statement
The following tables explain the changes in the loans and the corresponding impairment loss allowance between the beginning and 
the end of the Financial Year 2023-24:
FY 24-25
TOTAL
 Stage I 
Loans 
Stage I 
ECL
Stage II 
Loans
Stage II 
ECL
Stage III 
Loans
Stage III 
ECL 
 Total Loans  Total ECL 
Opening Balance
 329,299.83 
 2,129.72 
 7,302.52 
 247.05 
 6,215.07  2,051.25 
 342,817.42 
 4,428.01 
Transfer to Stage I
 293.89 
 1.90 
 (286.17)
 (0.42)
 (28.40)
 0.20 
 (20.67)
 1.69 
Transfer to Stage II
 (3,398.78)
 (130.93)
 1,843.23 
 48.26 
 (21.51)
 (0.39)
 (1,577.06)
 (83.06)
Transfer to Stage III
 (4,908.37)  (1,798.96)
 (599.83)  (166.05)
 2,093.27 
 334.66 
 (3,414.93)
(1,630.36)
Write off
 (175.94)
 (1.75)
 (560.90)  (254.85)
 (1,216.87)
 (571.62)
 (1,953.71)
 (828.22)
Impact of changes in credit risk 
on account of stage movement
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes in opening credit 
exposures (repayment net of 
additional disbursement)
 (211,099.78)
 (1,453.77)  (5,169.80)  (372.35)
 (3,108.87)
 (758.63) (219,378.45)
(2,584.74)
New Credit Exposures during 
the year, net of repayments*
 288,621.56  3,593.48  2,692.83 
 727.33 
 7,336.70  2,023.87  298,651.09 
 6,344.68 
Closing Balance
 398,632.41  2,339.70 
 5,221.88  228.98  11,269.39 3,079.34  415,123.69  5,648.02 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
331
Note 12: Investments
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
 As at March 31, 2024 
Amortised 
cost 
 At Fair value 
 Total 
 
Amortised 
cost 
 At Fair value 
 Total 
 Through 
Profit or 
Loss 
Through 
OCI 
 Through 
Profit or 
Loss 
 Through 
OCI 
As at 31 March 2025
Quoted Instruments -
i)	
Investment in Debt Securities
 66.86 
 - 
 - 
 66.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Investment in Government Securities
 3,063.48 
 - 
 2,067.40 
 5,130.88 
 3,070.49 
 - 
 1,948.73 
 5,019.22 
iii)	
Investment in Equity Instruments
 - 
 46.57 
 - 
 46.57 
 - 
 0.36 
 - 
 0.36 
iv)	
Investment in Mutual Funds
 - 
 3.88 
 - 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
v)	
Investment In Gold ETF
 - 
 19.35 
 - 
 19.35 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Instruments -
i)	
Investment in Government Securities
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
ii)	
Investment in Security Reciepts
 - 
 3,223.08 
 - 
 3,223.08 
 - 
 2,407.58 
 - 
 2,407.58 
iii)	
Investment in Equity instruments
 - 
 - 
 0.58 
 0.58 
 - 
 - 
 0.58 
 0.58 
iv)	
Investment in Securitised Assets (Pass Through Certificates)
 - 
 78.66 
 - 
 78.66 
 - 
 45.38 
 - 
 45.38 
Total Gross (A)
 3,130.39 
 3,371.54 
 2,067.98 
 8,569.91 
 3,070.54 
 2,453.32 
 1,949.31 
 7,473.17 
i)	
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Investments in India
 3,130.39 
 3,371.54 
 2,067.98 
 8,569.91 
 3,070.54 
 2,453.32 
 1,949.31 
 7,473.17 
Total Gross (B)
 3,130.39 
 3,371.54 
 2,067.98 
 8,569.91 
 3,070.54 
 2,453.32 
 1,949.31 
 7,473.17 
Less : Allowance for impairment loss (C)
 - 
 692.00 
 0.58 
 692.57 
 - 
 209.80 
 - 
 209.80 
Total - Net (D) = (A) -(C)
 3,130.39 
 2,679.54 
 2,067.40 
 7,877.34 
 3,070.54 
 2,243.52 
 1,949.31 
 7,263.37 
Note 13: Other financial assets
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
Security deposits*
 1,253.15 
 1,133.09 
Commission receivable
 11.97 
 3.21 
Deferred lease rental
 1.67 
 1.62 
Funds-in-transit
 1,888.54 
 833.44 
Gold investment***
 37.65 
 41.21 
Asset held for sale
 12.95 
 22.29 
EIS Receivable on Direct Assignments**
 1,250.02 
 1,356.19 
Interest Receivable
 - 
Other Financial Assets
 1,078.90 
 1,003.97 
Total
 5,534.85 
 4,395.02 
* Employee security deposits aggregating to `580.36  Mn (31 March 2024: ` 477.76 Mn). Deposits aggregating to ` 39.84 Mn (31 March 2024: ` 42.18 Mn) 
towards security deposit to various authorities.
**Under Ind AS, with respect to assignment deals, the Company has created an Excess Interest Spread(EIS) receivable, with the corresponding credit to 
the statement of Profit and Loss for the year, which has been computed by discounting EIS to the  present value on each balance sheet date.
***Gold investments include gold ornaments amounting to ` 37.65 Mn(31st March 2024-`41.21 Mn) which have been seized during the course of recovery 
proceedings under gold loan defaults. These are pending disposal in accordance with the applicable legal procedures. The Appropriate provision has been 
recognised wherever required
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
332
Note 14: Current tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
Advance tax and tax deducted at source  
[net of provisions for Income Tax `53,458.24 Mn (March 31, 2024 `  Mn)]
 1,546.14 
 745.08 
Total
 1,546.14 
 745.08 
Note 15: Investment property
Particulars
Amount
At 31 March 2024
 0.86 
Additions
 - 
Disposals
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 0.86 
Depreciation and impairment:
At 31 March 2024
 - 
Disposals
 - 
Depreciation charge for the period
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 - 
Net book value:
At 31 March 2024
0.86
At 31 March 2025
0.86
Note 16: Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 Land-
Freehold 
Buildings* 
 Office 
equipment 
 Electrical 
Installation 
 Computer 
Equipment 
 Furniture 
and 
Fixtures 
 Leasehold 
Improvement 
 Vehicles 
 Plant and 
Equipment 
 Total** 
CWIP
Gross Block: Cost
At 01 April 2023
 485.20 
 1,474.30 
 512.78 
 143.31 
 1,676.14 
 2,902.23 
 641.24 
 63.02 
 46.19 
 7,944.41 
 160.11 
Additions
 44.74 
 21.34 
 162.09 
 13.66 
 396.70 
 328.25 
 111.19 
 5.56 
 1.49 
 1,085.02 
 173.35 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 3.82 
 0.90 
 88.30 
 5.30 
 1.87 
 6.67 
 4.28 
 111.14 
At 31March 2024
 529.94 
 1,495.64 
 671.05 
 156.07 
 1,984.54 
 3,225.18 
 750.56 
 61.91 
 43.40  8,918.29 
 333.46 
Additions
 148.44 
 269.84 
 227.95 
 78.50 
 365.32 
 562.06 
 139.18 
 53.33 
 12.54 
 1,857.16 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 16.59 
 0.20 
 229.93 
 5.65 
 0.07 
 6.31 
 0.28 
 259.03 
 218.76 
At 31 March  2025
 678.38 
 1,765.48 
 882.41 
 234.37 
 2,119.93 
 3,781.59 
 889.67 
 108.93 
 55.66 10,516.42 
 114.70 
Accumulated 
depreciation:
At 01 April 2023
 - 
 262.65 
 222.48 
 129.05 
 885.20 
 1,498.17 
 562.33 
 40.12 
 26.47 
 3,626.47 
-
Depreciation charge for 
the year
 - 
 50.47 
 95.30 
 8.98 
 425.36 
 365.52 
 40.37 
 7.77 
 4.28 
 998.05 
-
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 3.34 
 0.90 
 87.84 
 5.30 
 1.87 
 6.27 
 2.94 
 108.46 
-
At 31March 2024
 - 
 313.12 
 314.44 
 137.13 
 1,222.72 
 1,858.39 
 600.83 
 41.62 
 27.81 
 4,516.06 
 - 
Depreciation charge for 
the year
 - 
 55.94 
 142.92 
 23.35 
 470.13 
 402.20 
 79.14 
 9.03 
 4.57 
 1,187.28 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 12.64 
 0.20 
 229.65 
 5.49 
 0.07 
 3.41 
 0.26 
 251.72 
 - 
At 31 March  2025
 - 
 369.06 
 444.72 
 160.28 
 1,463.20 
 2,255.10 
 679.90 
 47.24 
 32.12  5,451.62 
 - 
Carrying Amount
 - 
At 31March 2024
 529.94 
 1,182.52 
 356.61 
 18.94 
 761.83 
 1,366.79 
 149.73 
 20.29 
 15.59  4,402.23 
 333.46 
At 31 March  2025
 678.38 
 1,396.41 
 437.69 
 74.09 
 656.74 
 1,526.49 
 209.77 
 61.69 
 23.54 5,064.80 
 114.70 
No revaluation of any class of asset is carried out during the year.
Title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company.
*Details of building pledged against borrowings is presented in note 22
**No PPE pledged as security other than that disclosed in Note 22.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
333
Capital Work In Progress (CWIP) aging schedule for the year ended 31st March, 2025
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 2.10 
 78.93 
 33.66 
 114.70 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Capital Work In Progress(CWIP) aging schedule for the year ended 31st March, 2024
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 26.86 
 1.74 
 102.52 
 202.34 
 333.46 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note 17: Intangible assets
Particulars
Computer software
Intangible assets 
under development
Gross Block - at Cost
At 1 April 2023
 737.60 
 0.63 
Additions
 223.36 
 - 
Addition on acquisition of Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 4.22 
 0.49 
At 31 March 2024
 956.75 
 0.14 
Additions
 411.02 
 - 
Addition on acquisition of Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 11.10 
At 31 March 2025
 1,356.67 
 0.14 
Accumulated amortization
At 1 April 2023
 440.25 
Charge for the year
 165.25 
 - 
Addition on acquisition of Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 4.10 
At 31 March 2024
 601.40 
 - 
Charge for the year
 237.03 
 - 
Addition on acquisition of Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 10.59 
At 31 March 2025
 827.84 
 - 
Net book value
At 31 March 2024
 355.35 
 0.14 
At 31 March 2025
 528.83 
 0.14 
No revaluation of any class of asset is carried out during the year.
Note 18: Other non-financial assets
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
Prepaid expenses
 316.20 
 347.85 
Balance with government authorities
 413.94 
 56.27 
Capital advances
 109.62 
 33.91 
Other non-financial assets
 35.40 
 276.52 
Total
 875.16 
 714.55 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
334
Note 19: Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into derivatives for risk management purposes in relation to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on foreign 
currency exposures. Derivatives held by the Group for the purpose of risk management includes both hedges that meet the hedge 
accounting requirements or hedges that are only economic hedges and valued at fair value through profit and loss. These derivatives 
are valued at fair value based on quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are directly/ indirectly 
observable in the market place.
The below table shows the fair values of derivative financial instruments recorded as asset and liabilities together with notional 
amounts held by the Group:
Particulars
Amount as at
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
A)	
Derivatives designated as Cash flow Hedges:
	
Forward Contracts
 192.65 
 8.33 
	
Cross Currency interest rate Swaps
 220.35 
 17.12 
	
Sub total (A)
 413.00 
 25.45 
B)	
Other Derivatives
	
Cross currency interest rate swaps
 - 
 - 
	
Sub total (B)
 - 
 - 
	
Total (A+B)
 413.00 
 25.45 
	
Derivative financial instruments  - disclosed under financial assets
 413.00 
 25.45 
	
Derivative financial instruments  - disclosed under financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
Note 19.1 Hedging activities and derivatives
The Group is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations. The primary risks managed using derivative 
instruments are foreign currency risk.
The Group’s risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk are explained in Note 49.
Note 19.2 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments
The Holding Company is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from its fixed rate foreign currency denominated bond amounting 
to USD 300 million. Interest on the borrowing is payable at 7.37 % p.a. at half yearly intervals, and the principal amount is repayable 
in May 2028. The Company economically hedged the foreign currency risk arising from the bond with Forward Rate Agreement of 
equivalent amount.
The Holding Company is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from its fixed rate foreign currency External Commercial Borrowing 
amounting to USD 297 million. Interest on the borrowing is payable at 7-8% p.a. and the principal amount is repayable on various 
due dates. The Company economically hedged the foreign currency risk arising from the loan with Cross Currency Interest Rate 
swaps of equivalent amount. The Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps converts the cash outflows of the foreign currency fixed rate 
borrowing of USD 297 million to cash outflows in Indian Rupees with a notional amount of ` 24,916.49  Million
The Holding Company is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from its fixed rate foreign currency borrowing amounting to  Nil 
( March 2024 USD 43.85 million). Interest on the borrowing is payable at 8.85 % p.a. and the principal amount is repayable in 
August 2024. The Company economically hedged the foreign currency risk arising from the loan with Cross Currency Interest Rate 
swaps of equivalent amount. The Cross Currency Interest Rate Forward converts the cash outflows of the foreign currency fixed 
rate borrowing of USD 43.85 million to cash outflows in Indian Rupees with a notional amount of Nil (March 2024 `3,636 Million)
There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as the terms of the forward currency contract 
match that of the foreign currency borrowing (notional amount, principal repayment date etc.). The company has established a hedge 
ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying risk of the forward currency contract are identical to the hedged risk 
components. For the purpose of calculating hedge effectiveness, the company uses a qualitative features to determine the hedge 
effectiveness.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
335
The reconciliation of cash flow hedge reserve and investment at FVTOCI for the years ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 
are as follows:
Particulars
Amount As at
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Cash flow hedge reserve as at beginning of the year
 (56.42)
 0.94 
(i)	
Gain/ (loss) recognised in other comprehensive income during the year
 23.49 
 (114.69)
(ii)	
Fairvalue Changes of Investments held as FVTOCI
 76.12 
 24.18 
Less: Tax impact on (i) and (ii) above 
 (25.07)
 33.15 
Total
 18.12 
 (56.42)
Note 20: Trade payables
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro, small and medium enterprises
 3.10 
 2.23 
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro, small and medium 
enterprises
 1,198.20 
 1,216.55 
Total
 1,201.30 
 1,218.78 
Note 20(i) Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
Particulars
As at 
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier 
at the end of each accounting year.
 3.10 
 2.23 
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along with the amount of the payment 
made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting 
year.
 - 
 - 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance of a deductible expenditure under section 
23 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
Total
 3.10 
 2.23 
Note 20(ii)Trade payable aging schedule (Disclosure under schedule III of Companies Act,2013)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years 
i)	
MSME
 0.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.27 
ii)	
others
 513.48 
 121.02 
 19.67 
 81.33 
 735.50 
iii)	
Disputed dues- MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Disputed dues- others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Unbilled-MSME
 2.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.83 
(vi)	 Unbilled-Others
 462.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 462.71 
Total
 979.28 
 121.02 
 19.67 
 81.33 
 1,201.30 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
336
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years 
i)	
MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
others
 542.53 
 45.69 
 40.65 
 101.25 
 730.13 
iii)	
Disputed dues- MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Disputed dues- others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Unbilled-MSME
 2.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.23 
(vi)	 Unbilled-Others
 463.13 
 10.29 
 4.48 
 8.53 
 486.42 
Total
 1,007.89 
 55.98 
 45.13 
 109.78 
 1,218.78 
Note 21: Debt securities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost
Unsecured
Commercial papers (unsecured)
 2,941.43 
 8,357.10 
Secured
US Dollar bonds (Secured)
 26,240.11 
 - 
Privately placed redeemable non-convertible debentures (Secured)
 31,511.54 
 41,169.70 
Others - Non-convertible debentures - Public issue (Secured)
 1,491.65 
 2,273.24 
Total  (A)
 62,184.73 
 51,800.04 
Debt securities in India
 35,944.62 
 51,800.04 
Debt securities outside India
 26,240.11 
 - 
Total (B)
 62,184.73 
 51,800.04 
Exclude unpaid (Unclaimed) matured debentures shown as a part of the other financial liabilities (Refer Note.25)
Includes EIR impact of transaction cost, premium amount/ Discount on issue of NCD
US Dollar Bonds carry interest rates of 7.37% p.a (31 March 2025) and their tenure is for 4 years (31 March 2024 : Nil).
Nature of Security
Debentures are secured by a floating charge on the book debts of the Company on gold and other unencumbered assets. The Company 
shall maintain 100% security cover on the outstanding balance of debenture with accrued interest any time. Debentures are offered 
for a period of 1 year to 10 years.
US Dollar Bonds are secured by way of floating charge on the book debts of the Company on gold and other unencumbered 
assets.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
337
Note 21: Debt securities (Contd…..)
Details of redeemable non-convertible debentures
Sr. 
No.
Private Placement/ 
Public issue
Date of 
allotment
Date of 
redemption
 Nominal 
value per 
debenture 
Total 
number of 
debentures
Rate of 
interest p.a.
Face value
As at 31 st 
March 2025 
As at 
31 st March 
2024 
Secured/ 
Unsecured
Terms of 
redemption
Listed/ 
Unlisted
1
Public Issue
29-Nov-18
29-Nov-25
1,000
3,97,723
Zero 
Coupon
397.72
397.72
397.72
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
2
Public Issue
6-Mar-19
5-May-26
1,000
2,04,779
Cumulative
204.78
204.78
204.78
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
3
Public Issue
19-Dec-18
19-Dec-25
1,000
13,265
 Cumulative 
13.27
13.27
13.27
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
4
Private Placement
9-Jul-20
9-Jul-30
10,00,000
250
9.50%
250.00
250.00
250.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
5
Private Placement
14-Aug-20
9-Jul-30
10,00,000
250
9.50%
250.00
250.00
250.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
6
Private Placement
14-Aug-20
9-Jul-30
10,00,000
400
9.50%
400.00
400.00
400.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
7
Private Placement
14-Aug-20
9-Jul-30
10,00,000
350
9.50%
350.00
350.00
350.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
8
Private Placement
28-Jan-21
28-Jan-26
10,00,000
1,500
8.57%
1,500.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
9
Private Placement
28-Jan-21
28-Jan-27
10,00,000
1,500
8.57%
1,500.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
10
Private Placement
28-Jan-21
28-Jan-28
10,00,000
3,000
8.57%
3,000.00
3,000.00
3,000.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
11
Private Placement
30-Dec-21
30-Dec-24
10,00,000
2,500
6.95%
2,500.0
-
2,500.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
12
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Apr-24
10,00,000
963
8.35%
962.5
-
962.50
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
13
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Jul-24
10,00,000
963
8.35%
962.5
-
962.50
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
14
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Oct-24
10,00,000
963
8.35%
962.5
-
962.50
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
15
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Jan-25
10,00,000
963
8.35%
962.5
-
962.50
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
16
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Apr-25
10,00,000
963
8.35%
962.5
962.50
962.50
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
17
Private Placement
20-Jul-22
20-Jul-25
10,00,000
963
8.35%
962.5
962.50
962.50
Secured
On Maturity
 Unlisted 
18
Private Placement
13-Mar-23
13-Mar-31
1,00,000
36,666
9.22%
3,666.6
3,666.63
3,666.63
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
19
Private Placement
13-Mar-23
13-Mar-32
1,00,000
36,666
9.22%
3,666.6
3,666.63
3,666.63
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
20
Private Placement
13-Mar-23
13-Mar-33
1,00,000
36,667
9.22%
3,666.7
3,666.74
3,666.74
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
21
Private Placement
6-Oct-23
29-Sep-25
1,00,000
40,000
8.80%
4,000.0
4,000.00
4,000.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
22
Private Placement
6-Oct-23
28-Mar-25
1,00,000
20,000
8.65%
2,000.0
-
2,000.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
23
Private Placement
5-Mar-24
5-Mar-26
1,00,000
20,000
8.80%
2,000.0
2,000.00
2,000.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
24
Private Placement
28-Mar-24
28-Mar-34
1,00,000
2,500
8.60%
250.0
250.00
250.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
25
Private Placement
19-Aug-24
19-Aug-26
1,00,000
45,000
9.10%
4,500.0
4,500.00
-
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
26
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
3-Nov-22
1,000
2
9.75%
-
-
-
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
27
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
3-Nov-22
1,000
1
10.00%
-
-
-
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
28
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
3-Nov-22
1,000
1
10.00%
-
-
-
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
29
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
3-Nov-24
1,000
2
10.25%
-
-
236.05
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
30
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
3-Nov-24
1,000
1
10.65%
-
-
64.03
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
31
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
3-Nov-24
1,000
0
10.65%
-
-
32.89
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
32
Public Issue
4-Nov-19
7-Sep-26
1,000
2,20,343
10.65%
220.34
220.34
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
33
Private Placement
20-Jul-20
19-Jul-23
10,00,000
0
9.40%
-
-
0
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
338
Sr. 
No.
Private Placement/ 
Public issue
Date of 
allotment
Date of 
redemption
 Nominal 
value per 
debenture 
Total 
number of 
debentures
Rate of 
interest p.a.
Face value
As at 31 st 
March 2025 
As at 
31 st March 
2024 
Secured/ 
Unsecured
Terms of 
redemption
Listed/ 
Unlisted
34
Private Placement
21-Nov-22
21-Nov-24
10,00,000
0
8.50%
-
-
500.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
35
Private Placement
30-Mar-21
30-Mar-25
7,50,000
-
9.75%
7,50,000.0
-
375.00
Secured
Half-yearly
 Unlisted 
36
Private Placement
9-Jul-21
31-Dec-24
3,33,333
-
11.40%
3,33,333.0
-
116.67
Unsecured
Yearly
 Unlisted 
37
Private Placement
27-Aug-21
27-Feb-25
10,00,000
-
11.05%
10,00,000.0
-
730.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
38
Private Placement
21-Sep-21
15-Sep-26
10,00,000
-
11.05%
10,00,000.0
-
1,450.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
39
Private Placement
9-Nov-21
9-May-24
10,00,000
-
9.70%
10,00,000.0
-
450.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
40
Private Placement
9-Nov-21
9-May-24
10,00,000
-
9.70%
10,00,000.0
-
300.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
41
Private Placement
12-Sep-22
12-Sep-24
10,00,000
-
9.60%
10,00,000.0
-
1,000.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
42
Private Placement
28-Sep-22
28-Sep-24
10,00,000
-
8.50%
10,00,000.0
-
1,150.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
43
Private Placement
20-Jul-23
20-Jan-26
1,00,000
2,500
9.30%
1,00,000.0
250.00
250.00
Secured
On Maturity
 Listed 
44
Private Placement*
30-May-19
30-May-24
10,000
-
11.63%
10,000.0
0.15
0.15
Unsecured
On Maturity
 Listed 
Total amount
 32,011.26 
 42,265.89 
Effective Interest Rate Adjustment
(387.63)
(476.84)
Interest Accrued but not due
1379.56 
1653.88 
Net Amount
 33,003.19 
 43,442.94 
* `0.184 Million as on 31st March 2025 is the amount of unclaimed debentures lying in the Escrow Account
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
339
Note 22: Borrowings (other than debt securities)
Particulars
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
As at 
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost:
Term Loan*
	
Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
1,82,912.38
1,79,904.20
	
Foreign currency term loan from banks (secured)
25,424.86
12,070.31
	
Indian rupee loan from other parties (secured)
4,466.85
7,222.53
	
Indian rupee loan from other parties (unsecured)
-
199.71
Loans repayable on demand
	
Cash credit / Overdraft facilities from banks (secured)
124.25
2,255.05
Other loans
	
Working Capital demand loan from banks (secured)
72,409.16
74,134.96
	
Borrowings under securitisation arrangement 
1,842.39
4,082.55
Total 
2,87,179.89
2,79,869.31
Borrowings in India*
2,87,179.89
2,79,869.31
Borrowings outside India
-
-
Total
2,87,179.89
2,79,869.31
Includes EIR impact of transaction cost, premium amount/ Discount on issue of NCD 		
*Term Loans were fully used for the purpose for which the same were obtained.	
	
*Includes foreign currency loan borrowed from SBI Bank.  	 	
The Group has not defaulted in repayment of principal and interest during the year and as at balance sheet date 31 March 2025 (No default for the year 
ended 31 March 2024).
Term loan from bank:
Indian rupee loan from banks (secured):  These are secured by an exclusive charge by way of hypothecation of book debts pertaining 
to loans granted against gold and margin/cash collateral as per the agreement.
Foreign currency term loans (ECB) from banks (secured):
1)	
Foreign currency loan: Nil as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 `3636.30 Million) which carries interest @ 6 month SOFAR 
plus 120 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., March 17,2022.
2)	
Foreign currency loan: 1. `3744.00 million(ECB) as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 `4160.00 million(ECB)) which carries 
interest @ 6 month SOFAR plus 225 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., October 25,2023.
3)	
Foreign currency loan: 1. `4157.00 million(ECB) as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 `4157.00 million(ECB)) which carries 
interest @ 6 month SOFAR plus 235 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., January 24,2024. 
The loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company.
4)	
Foreign currency loan: `4178.00 million(ECB) as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 6 
month SOFAR plus 215 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., June 24, 2024. The loans 
are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances 
of the Company.
5)	
Foreign currency loan: `8,380.00 million(ECB) as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 6 
month SOFAR plus 195 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., September 30 , 2024.The 
loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
340
6)	
Foreign currency loan: . `1,983.40 million(ECB) as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 6 
month SOFAR plus 175 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., November 19, 2024. The loans 
are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances 
of the Company.
7)	
Foreign currency loan: `2,474.10 million(ECB) as at March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024 Nil) (ECB)) which carries interest @ 6 
month SOFAR plus 210 bps. The loan is repayable after 3 years from the date of its origination, viz., March 17, 2024. The loans 
are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances 
of the Company.
Term loan from other parties (secured):
Third party rupee term loan is secured where Interest payments are made monthly at 8.70 % - 8.90% pa. The loans is secured against 
the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & advances of the Company as per 
the agreement.  
Loans repayable on demand
Cash credit / Overdraft facilities from banks (secured):  
These loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company  as per the agreement. 
Working Capital demand loan from banks (secured):
These loans are secured against the first pari passu charge on current assets, book debts and receivables including gold loans & 
advances of the Company  as per the agreement. 
A)	
Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
	
As at 31st March, 2025
	
Terms of repayment
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
6.79-9.40%
27,007.46
Due within 1-2 years 
6.79-9.40%
30,623.93
Due within 1 year
6.79-9.40%
51,223.59
Total 
1,08,854.98
Effective interest rate adjustment
(102.83)
Interest Accrued but not due
19.44
Net Amount
1,08,771.59
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
11%-13.5%
 240.00 
Above 2 year
7%-11%
 2,935.87 
Due within 1-2 years 
7%-11%
 14,499.75 
Due within 1-2 years 
11%-13.5%
 240.00 
Due within 1 year
11%-13.5%
 1,174.92 
Due within 1 year
7%-11%
 39,713.88 
Total 
 58,804.42 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(135.00)
Interest accrued but not due
 72.55 
Net Amount Total (B)
 58,741.97 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
341
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
More than 5 years
9.25% - 10.60%
 3,396.62 
Due within 2-5 years
9.25% - 10.60%
 6,344.61 
Due within 1-2 years
9.25% - 10.60%
 2,892.20 
Due within 1 year
9.25% - 10.60%
 2,849.78 
Interest accrued and due on borrowings
 - 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 (84.39)
Net Amount Total (C)
 15,398.83 
TOTAL (A+B+C)
1,82,912.38
	
As at 31st March, 2024
	
Terms of repayment 
	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
6.50 - 9.75%
 57,598.85 
Due within 1-2 years 
6.50 - 9.75%
 25,317.20 
Due within 1 year
6.50 - 9.75%
 5,200.05 
Total 
 88,116.10 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(99.30)
Interest accrued but not due
 12.43 
Net Amount Total (A)
 88,029.23 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
5%-13.5%
 7,764.99 
Due within 1-2 years 
7%-13.5%
 24,838.75 
Due within 1 year
7%-13.5%
 47,430.26 
Total 
 80,034.00 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(259.91)
Interest accrued but not due
 101.99 
Net Amount Total (B)
 79,876.08 
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
More than 5 years
8.00% - 10.25%
 3,059.98 
Due within 2-5 years
8.00% - 10.25%
 5,096.21 
Due within 1-2 years
8.00% - 10.25%
 2,009.65 
Due within 1 year
8.00% - 10.25%
 1,855.48 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 - 
Interest accrued and due on borrowings
 (67.59)
Net Amount Total (C)
 11,953.73 
TOTAL (A+B+C)
1,79,859.06
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
342
B)	
Indian rupee loan from other parties  (secured)
	
As at 31st March, 2025
	
Terms of repayment 
	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
  8.70 - 8.90%
 666.67 
Due within 1-2 years 
  8.70 - 8.90%
 837.50 
Due within One year 
  8.70 - 8.90%
 850.00 
Total 
 2,354.17 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(2.46)
Interest Accrued but not due
 9.22 
Net Amount
 2,360.92 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
9%-11%
 222.30 
Due within 1-2 years 
9%-11%
 511.06 
Due within One year 
9%-11%
 1,276.55 
Total 
 2,009.91 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(13.68)
Interest accrued but not due
 6.36 
Revaluation Adjustment
 103.33 
Net Amount Total (B)
 2,105.93 
TOTAL (A+B)
 4,466.85 
	
As at 31st March, 2024
	
Terms of repayment  
	
Manappuram Finance Limited  
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
  6.75 -10.75%
 3,097.50 
Due within 1-2 years 
  6.75 -10.75%
 416.66 
Due within One year 
Total 
 3,514.17 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(1.80)
Interest accrued but not due
 48.48 
Net Amount Total (A)
 3,560.85 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Above 2 year
9%-11%
 667.22 
Due within 1-2 years 
9%-11%
 1,026.53 
Due within One year 
9%-13.5%
 1,872.52 
Total 
 3,566.26 
Effective interest rate adjustment
(25.48)
Interest accrued but not due
 9.61 
Revaluation Adjustment
 111.29 
Net Amount Total (B)
 3,661.67 
TOTAL (A+B)
 7,222.52 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
343
C)	
Indian rupee loan from others  (Unsecured)
	
As at 31st March, 2025
	
Terms of repayment
	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Due within one year 
Nil
 - 
Interest Accrued but not due
 - 
Total 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Due within one year 
Nil
 - 
Effective interest rate adjustment
 - 
Interest Accrued but not due/Effective interest rate adjustment
 - 
Total (B)
 - 
Grand Total (A+B)
 - 
	
As at 31st March, 2024
	
Terms of repayment
	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Due within one year 
Nil
 - 
Interest Accrued but not due
 - 
Total 
 - 
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Tenure (from the date of Balance Sheet) 
Rate of Interest 
 Amount 
Due within one year 
9%-11%
 200.00 
Interest Accrued but not due/Effective interest rate adjustment
(0.29)
Total (B)
 199.71 
Grand Total (A+B)
 199.71 
Note 23: Deposits
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost:
Deposits
 -	
From others
 - 
 0.70 
Total
 - 
 0.70 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
344
Note 24: Subordinated liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
At amortised cost:
Redeemable non-convertible debentures (Unsecured) - Subordinated debt
 4,848.77 
 4,864.63 
Total
 4,848.77 
 4,864.63 
Subordinated liabilities in India
 4,848.77 
 4,864.63 
Subordinated liabilities outside India
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,848.77 
 4,864.63 
Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (Unsecured) have a face value of ` 10,00,000/- each. Details of rate of interest and maturity 
pattern from the date of the balance sheet is as under:
As at 31st March, 2025
Redeemable at par within
Rate of interest
< 12%
>= 12% < 14%
> =14%<=15%
Total 
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Due above 5 years 
 1 
 1,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 1,000.00 
Due within 4-5 years 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Due within 3-4 years 
 3 
 1,750 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3 
 1,750.00 
Due within 2-3 years 
 1 
 1,000 
 2 
 1,050 
 - 
 - 
 3 
2,050.00 
Due within 1-2 years 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Due within 1 year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Grand Total
 5.00 3,750.00 
 2.00  1,050.00 
 - 
 - 
 7.00  4,800.00 
Effective Interest Rate Adjustment
 - 
 (103.35)
 - 
 (6.52)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (109.87)
Interest accrued but not due
 - 
 158.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 158.64 
Net Total
 5.00 3,805.29 
 2.00  1,043.48 
 - 
 - 
 7.00  4,848.77 
As at 31st March, 2024
Redeemable at par within
Rate of interest
< 12%
>= 12% < 14%
> =14%<=15%
Total 
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Due above 5 years 
 1 
 1,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 1,000.00 
Due within 4-5 years 
 3  1,750.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3 
 1,750.00 
Due within 3-4 years 
 - 
 - 
 2  1,050.00 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 1,050.00 
Due within 2-3 years 
 1  1,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 1,000.00 
Due within 1-2 years 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-  
 - 
Due within 1 year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-  
-
Grand Total
 5.00 3,750.00 
 2.00  1,050.00 
 - 
 - 
 7.00  4,800.00 
Effective Interest Rate Adjustment
 - 
 (123.99)
 - 
 (8.34)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (132.33)
Interest accrued but not due
 - 
 184.20 
 - 
 12.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196.96 
Net Total
 5.00  3,810.21 
 2.00  1,054.42 
 - 
 - 
 7.00  4,864.63 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
345
Note 25: Other financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Investor Education and Protection Fund shall be credited by following amounts
-	
Unclaimed matured non-convertible debenture*
 13.96 
 16.03 
-	
Unclaimed dividend
 27.25 
 25.73 
-	
Unclaimed matured subordinate bonds and interest accrued thereon
 5.39 
 5.79 
Security deposits
 687.97 
 604.71 
Payable to customers (Auction surplus refundable)
 29.41 
 162.16 
Interest payable on securitization
 1,034.23 
 873.14 
Employee related payables
 1,093.14 
 1,077.09 
Other financial liabilities
 1,151.87 
 1,650.32 
Total
 4,043.22 
 4,414.97 
* Includes interest on unpaid (Unclaimed) debentures and `0.184 Mn as on 31st March 2025 pertaining to one of the subsidiary is shown under Note 21
Note 26: Provisions
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
a)	
Provision for Employee benefits 
	
-	
Gratuity 
 360.47 
 240.04 
	
-	
Provision for compensated absences
 261.82 
 288.51 
b)	
Others   
	
-	
Taxation
 2.95 
 4.23 
	
-	
Loan commitments 
 6.50 
 2.62 
	
-	
Provision for other assets*
 37.66 
 41.21 
	
-	
Litigation
 124.53 
 147.50 
	
-	
Provision for expenes
 10.38 
 0.67 
Total
 804.32 
 724.78 
*The Company has recognised provision amounting to `37.66 Mn (31 March 2024 - ` 41.21 Mn) towards assets which are doubtful of recovery. The 
provision is based on management estimates and past recovery trends.
Movement of provisions other than employee benefits during the year
The movement in provisions during 2024-25 and 2023-24 is as follows:
Particulars
Litigation
Other Assets
Total
At 31 March 2023
 131.09 
 92.64 
 223.73 
Provided /(reversed) during the year
 16.41 
 (51.43)
 (35.02)
At 31 March 2024
 147.50 
 41.21 
 188.71 
Provided /(reversed) during the year
 (22.97)
 (3.55)
 (26.51)
At 31 March 2025
 124.53 
 37.66 
 162.20 
Litigation:
Litigation provisions arise out of current or potential claims or pursuits alleging non-compliance with contractual or other legal 
or regulatory responsibilities, which have resulted or may arise in claims from customers, counterparties or other parties in civil 
litigations. 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
346
Note 26: Provisions (Contd.) 
Loan commitment
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation to 
Undisbursed loans is as follows:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount opening 
balance
 4,945.47 
 14.17 
 - 
 4,959.65 
 3,171.56 
 - 
 - 
 3,171.56 
New assets originated or purchased
 3,972.21 
 32.72 
 - 
 4,004.94  2,245.47 
 14.17 
 -  2,259.65 
Assets derecognised or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
 (945.47)
 (14.17)
 - 
 (959.65)
 (471.56)
 - 
 - 
 (471.56)
Transfers to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes to contractual cash flows 
due to modifications not resulting in 
derecognition
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gross carrying amount closing 
balance
 7,972.21 
 32.72 
 -  8,004.94  4,945.47 
 14.17 
 - 4,959.65 
Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening balance
 2.33 
 0.29 
 - 
 2.62 
 1.97 
 0.12 
 - 
 2.09 
New assets originated or purchased
 5.16 
 0.57 
 - 
 5.72 
 1.55 
 0.29 
 - 
 1.84 
Assets derecognised or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
 (1.55)
 (0.29)
 - 
 (1.84)
 (1.19)
 (0.12)
 - 
 (1.31)
Transfers to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Impact on year end ECL of exposures 
transferred between stages during 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Changes to contractual cash flows 
due to modifications not resulting in 
derecognition
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ECL allowance - closing balance
 5.93 
 0.57 
 - 
 6.50 
 2.33 
 0.29 
 - 
 2.62 
Note 27: Other Non-financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Statutory dues payable
 436.45 
 463.68 
Other non-financial liabilities
 303.18 
 1,688.16 
Total
 739.63 
 2,151.84 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
347
Note 28: Equity share capital
The reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Authorised 
98,00,00,000 (31 March 2024: 98,00,00,000) equity shares of ` 2/- each
 1,960.00 
 1,960.00 
4,00,000 (31 March 2024: 4,00,000) preference shares of ` 100/- each
 40.00 
 40.00 
Total Authorised  
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Issued and Subscribed Share Capital
84,64,34,729 (31 March 2024:84,64,34,729  ) equity shares of ` 2/- each
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
Fully paid up
84,64,34,729 (31 March 2024:84,64,34,729  ) equity shares of ` 2/- each fully paid up
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
Total Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
 1,692.87 
 1,692.87 
(a)	 Reconciliation of the number of shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
No. of Shares
` in Mn
As at 01 April 2023
84,63,94,729
1,692.79
Issued during the year - ESOP (refer note 41)
40,000
0.08
As at 31 March 2024
84,64,34,729
1,692.87
Issued during the year - ESOP (refer note 41)
-
-
As at 31 March 2025
84,64,34,729
1,692.87
(b)	 Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to 
one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors 
is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. During the year ended 31 March 2025, the 
amount of per share dividend recognized as distributions to equity shareholders was `4/- per share  (31 March 2024: ` 3.30/- 
per share).
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, 
after  distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the 
shareholders.
( c)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
% holding in 
the class
No. of Shares
% holding in 
the class
Mr. V.P. Nandakumar
24,59,04,221
29.05
24,54,54,221
29.00
Ms. Sushama Nandakumar
4,80,01,078
5.67
4,80,01,078
5.67
Smallcap World Fund, Inc
5,18,93,302
6.13
-
0.00
	
As per the records of the Company, including its register of shareholders / members and other declarations received from 
shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownership of shares.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
348
(d)	 Shareholding and change in shareholding percentages of promoters
Promoter* 
Details of shares as at  
31-03-2025
Details of shares as at  
31-03-2024
% change during 
the year**
No of shares
% of total share
No of shares
% of total share
V.P.Nandakumar
24,59,04,221
29.05%
24,54,54,221
29.00%
0.18%
Sooraj Nandan
3,674
0.00%
3,674
0.00%
0.00%
Sushama Nandakumar
4,80,01,078
5.67%
4,80,01,078
5.67%
0.00%
Suhas Nandan
17,051
0.00%
17,051
0.00%
0.00%
Jyoti Prasannan
44,74,990
0.53%
44,74,990
0.53%
0.00%
	
*Promoter means promoter as defined as per Companies Act,2013
	
**Percentage change shall be computed with respect to the number at the beginning of the year
 (e)	 Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding 
the reporting date:
	
The Company has issued  14,41,604 equity shares (31 March 2024: 36,24,872) during the period of five years immediately 
preceding the reporting date on exercise of options granted under the employee stock option plan (ESOP) wherein part 
consideration was received in the form of employee services.
	
For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock option (ESOP) plan of the Company, refer note 41
(f) 	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company complies with externally 
imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and 
to maximise shareholder value. No changes have been made to the objectives, policies and processes from the previous years. 
However, they are under constant review by the Board.
Note 29: Other equity
Securities premium 
At 1 April 2023
 14,155.57 
Add: Additions on ESOPs exercised
 (1,335.22)
Add: Share Premium Received During the year
 1,380.17 
Less: Share issue expenses
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 14,200.51 
Add: Additions on ESOPs exercised
 - 
Add: Share Premium Received During the year
 - 
Less: Share issue expenses
 (8.82)
At 31 March 2025
 14,191.69 
Share option outstanding account
At 1 April 2023
 136.30 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 1.69 
Options Lapsed during the year
 (133.31)
Add: Share Premium Received During the year
 (4.52)
At 31 March 2024
 0.16 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
Options Lapsed during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 0.16 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
349
Statutory reserve u/s 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934 and u/s 29C of NHB Act, 1987
At 1 April 2023
 21,229.42 
Add: Transfer from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 4,271.96 
At 31 March 2024
 25,501.38 
Add: Transfer from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 3,612.09 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 31.50 
At 31 March 2025
 29,144.97 
General reserve
At 1 April 2023
 3,627.02 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 10.57 
Add:Options Lapsed during the year
 133.31 
At 31 March 2024
 3,770.90 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 (0.43)
Add:Options Lapsed during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 3,770.47 
Hedging reserve
At 1 April 2023
 5.41 
Add/(Less): Effect of foreign exchange rate variations in Hedging instruments
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 5.41 
Less: Transfer to Retained Earnings
 (5.41)
Add/(Less): Effect of foreign exchange rate variations in Hedging instruments
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 - 
Retained earnings
At 1 April 2023
 55,160.95 
Add: Profit for the year
 22,049.99 
Add/Less: Appropriations
 - 
Transfer to/(from) Impairment reserve
 - 
Interim dividend on equity shares including tax thereon
 (2,943.18)
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 (4,271.96)
Loss on acquisition
 - 
Movements during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 69,995.80 
Add: Profit for the year
 12,175.06 
Add/Less: Appropriations
 - 
Add: Transfer from Hedge Reserve
 5.41 
Transfer to/(from) Impairment reserve
 - 
Interim dividend on equity shares including tax thereon
 (3,385.73)
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 (3,612.09)
Share issue expenses
 (7.50)
Movements during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 75,170.95 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
350
Other comprehensive income - Remeasurement of Gain/ (Loss On Defined Benefit Plan
At 1 April 2023
 (64.50)
Movements during the year
 (70.09)
At 31 March 2024
 (134.59)
Movements during the year
 (37.39)
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 (0.39)
At 31 March 2025
 (172.37)
Other comprehensive income - Effective portion of cash flow hedges
At 1 April 2023
 0.94 
Movements during the year
 (81.54)
At 31 March 2024
 (80.60)
Movements during the year
 17.58 
At 31 March 2025
 (63.02)
Other comprehensive income - Investments held as FVTOCI
At 1 April 2023
 - 
Movements during the year
 24.18 
At 31 March 2024
 24.18 
Movements during the year
 56.96 
At 31 March 2025
 81.14 
Share application money pending allotment
At 1 April 2023
 - 
Movements during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 - 
Movements during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 - 
Capital redemption reserve
At 1 April 2023
 50.00 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 50.00 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 50.00 
Capital reserve
At 1 April 2023
 2.91 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 2.91 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 2.91 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
351
Impairment Reserve
At 1 April 2023
 452.08 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2024
 452.08 
Add: Other Additions/ Deductions during the year
 - 
At 31 March 2025
 452.08 
Total other equity
At 31 March 2024
1,13,788.15
At 31 March 2025
1,22,628.99
Nature and purpose of Reserves
a)	
Securities premium: Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares i.e excess of face value over 
issue price. The reserve can be utilised only for limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
b)	
Share option outstanding account (ESOP reserve): The share-based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of 
equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. 
Refer to Note 37 for further details of these plans.
c)	
Statutory reserve (Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934):
	
Section 45IC of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (“RBI Act, 1934”) defines that every non banking finance institution which is 
a Company shall create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty percent of its net profit every year as 
disclosed in the statement of profit and loss before any dividend is declared. The Company has transferred an amount of `566.54 
Mn (2023-24 ` 4232.16 Mn) to Statutory reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of RBI Act, 1934.
	
Statutory reserve (Pursuant to section 29C of the NHB Act, 1987 & Section 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961): 
Section 29C (i) of The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 defines that every housing finance institution which is a Company shall 
create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty percent of its net profit every year as disclosed in the 
statement of profit and loss before any dividend is declared. For this purpose any special reserve created by the Company under 
Section 36(1) (viii) of Income tax Act 1961, is considered to be an eligible transfer. The Company has transferred an amount of 
`45.56 Mn (2023-24 `39.80 Mn) to special reserve in terms of Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income Tax Act 1961 considered eligible 
for special reserve u/s 29C of NHB Act 1987.
d)	
General reserve: Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net 
income at a specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. The purpose of these transfers was to ensure that if a 
dividend distribution in a given year is more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the Company for that year, then the total dividend 
distribution is less than the total distributable results for that year. Consequent to introduction of Companies Act 2013, the 
requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn. However, the 
amount previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of 
Companies Act, 2013.
e)	
Hedge reserve: The Company uses hedging instruments as part of its management of foreign currency risk and interest rate 
risk associated on borrowings as described within note 49. For hedging foreign currency and interest rate risk, the Company 
uses foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swaps, foreign currency option contracts and interest rate swaps. 
To the extent these hedges are effective, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the hedge reserve. 
Amounts recognised in the hedge reserve is reclassified to the statement of profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit 
or loss (e.g. interest payments).
f)	
Retained earning: Retained earnings are the profits that the Group has earned till date, less any transfers to statutory reserve, 
general reserve and dividend distributed to shareholders
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
352
g)	
Other comprehensive income: Other items of other comprehensive income consist of re-measurement of net defined benefit 
liability/asset and fair value changes on derivatives designated as cash flow hedge and Investments held as FVTOCI
h)	
Share application money pending allotment: The amount received on the application for equity shares of the Company on 
which allotment is not yet made, to the extent not refundable.
i)	
Capital redemption reserve: In accordance with Section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company creates capital redemption 
reserve equal to the nominal value of the shares bought back as an appropriation from general reserve.
j)	
Capital Reserve: The Company creates the Capital reserve to be used for future expenses or to offset any capital losses
k)	
Impairment Reserve: The NBFCs will have to compute two types of provisions or loss estimations, ECL as per Ind AS 109 & its 
internal ECL model and parallelly provisions as per the RBI prudential norms. A comparison between the two is required to be 
disclosed by the NBFC in the annual financial statements. Where the ECL computed as per the ECL methodology is lower than 
the provisions computed as per the IRAC norms, then the difference between the two should be parked in “Impairment Reserve”. 
Allocation to Impairment Reserve should be made out of Retained earnings and there are certain restrictions towards utilization 
of this reserve amount.
l)	
Debenture redemption reserve:
	
(1)	
Pursuant to Section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 and circular 04/2013, read with notification issued date June 19, 2016 
issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Company is required before 30th day of April of each year to deposit or invest, 
as the case may be, a sum which shall not be less than 15% of the amount of its debenture issued through public issue 
maturing within one year from the balance sheet date.
	
(2)	
Pursuant to notification issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs on 16th August, 2019 in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 469 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the Central Government amend the 
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014.
	
	
In the principal rules, in rule 18, for sub-rule (7), the limits with respect to adequacy of Debenture Redemption Reserve and 
investment or deposits for listed companies (other than All India Financial Institutions and Banking Companies as specified 
in sub-clause (i)), Debenture Redemption Reserve is not required to maintain in case of public issue of debentures as well 
as privately placed debentures for NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India under section 45-IA of the RBI Act, 1934.
Note 30 (i) : Revenue from operations
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Interest on loans
-	
Gold loans
 53,799.26 
 46,007.48 
-	
Home loans
 2,050.25 
 1,622.40 
-	
Commercial vehicles
 8,454.55 
 5,698.63 
-	
Onlending
 1,012.48 
 1,187.68 
-	
Microfinance loans 
 22,634.99 
 22,685.51 
-	
Others
 7,072.07 
 6,318.29 
Interest income from investments
 326.74 
 239.14 
Interest on deposits with banks 
 2,135.82 
 1,124.26 
Other Interest Income
-	
Interest on Security Deposit
 15.23 
 1.88 
-	
Penal Charge Collected
 155.06 
 - 
Total
 97,656.45 
 84,885.27 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
353
Note 30 (ii): Fees and commission income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Foreign exchange commission
 0.12 
 0.11 
Money transfer commission
 18.70 
 29.88 
Brokerage and commission
 702.91 
 1,041.21 
Fee received for IT services
 (2.45)
 4.69 
Total
 719.28 
 1,075.89 
Note 30 (iii): Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
A)	
Net Gain / (Loss) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
i)	
On trading portfolio
	
-	
Investments
 - 
 - 
	
-	
Derivatives
 - 
 - 
ii)	
On financial Instuments designated at fair value through profit or loss
B)	
Others
	
-	
Investments in shares
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Total Net Gain/ (Loss) on fair value changes (A)
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Fair value changes:
-	
Realised
 - 
 - 
-	
Unrealised
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Total Net Gain/ (Loss) fair value changes (B)
 (7.36)
 0.01 
Note 30 (iv): Net gain/(loss) on derecognition of financial instruments
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Net gain/(Loss) on derecognition of financial instruments
 1,233.60 
 1,832.22 
Total
 1,233.60 
 1,832.22 
Note 30(v): Dividend income 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Dividend income
 1.25 
 - 
Total
 1.25 
 - 
Note 30(vi): Other operating income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Bad debt recovered
 176.33 
 437.55 
Foreclosure charges
 40.11 
 28.13 
Sale of IT Products
 197.37 
 185.23 
Fee received for Non IT services
 11.41 
 11.96 
Others
 38.49 
 23.85 
Total
 463.71 
 686.72 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
354
Note 31: Other income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Net gain on derecognition of property, plant and equipment
 9.80 
 5.85 
Net gain on sale of current investment in mutual fund
 3.08 
 - 
Provisions no longer required written back
 - 
 2.90 
Others
 329.01 
 712.03 
Total
 341.89 
 720.78 
Note 32: Finance costs
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Interest on debt securities
 7,320.94 
 5,725.17 
Interest on borrowings 
 26,699.06 
 21,663.23 
Other interest expense
 408.03 
 336.51 
Other borrowing costs
 325.16 
 255.78 
Finance cost on lease liability
 656.09 
 676.41 
Total
 35,409.28 
 28,657.10 
Note 33: Fees and commission expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Commission paid
 811.15 
 505.51 
Total
 811.15 
 505.51 
Note 34: Impairment on financial instruments
The below table show impairment loss on financial instruments charges to statement of profit and loss based on category of financial 
instrument.
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
On financial instruments measured at amortised cost:
Loans
 19,139.05 
 5,514.49 
Investments
 482.76 
 209.82 
Others
-	
Other Assets
 1.67 
 57.97 
-	
Undrawn Commitments
 4.66 
 1.07 
Total 
 19,628.14 
 5,783.35 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
355
The table below shows the ECL charges on financial instruments for the year recorded in the statement of profit and loss based on 
evaluation stage:
Year ended 31 March 2025
Particulars
General Approach
Simplified 
Approach
 Total
Stage 1 
Collective
Stage 2 
Collective
Stage 3 
Collective
Loans 
 719.07 
 887.00 
 17,532.98 
 - 
 19,139.05 
Investments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 482.76 
 482.76 
Others  
-	
Undrawn commitments 
 4.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.66 
-	
Other assets 
 (1.95)
 - 
 - 
 3.62 
 1.67 
Total impairment loss
 721.78 
 887.00 
 17,532.98 
 486.38 
 19,628.14 
Year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars
General Approach
Simplified 
Approach
 Total
Stage 1 
Collective
Stage 2 
Collective
Stage 3 
Collective
Loans 
 362.59 
 (17.76) 
 5,169.66 
 - 
 5,514.49 
Investments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 209.82 
 209.82 
Others  
-	
Undrawn commitments 
 1.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.07 
-	
Other assets 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 57.97 
 57.97 
Total impairment loss
 363.66 
 (17.76) 
 5,169.66 
 267.79 
 5,783.35 
Note 35: Employee benefits expenses
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Salaries and wages
 16,840.69 
 14,617.46 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 1,542.05 
 1,359.84 
Share based payments to employees
 - 
 0.06 
Staff welfare expenses
 35.16 
 (4.14)
Total
 18,417.90 
 15,973.22 
Note 36: Depreciation and amortisation
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Depreciation of tangible assets
 1,186.39 
 997.45 
Amortization of intangible assets
 155.66 
 152.57 
Depreciation on right of use assets
 1,331.69 
 1,314.44 
Total
 2,673.74 
 2,464.46 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
356
Note 37: Other expenses
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Rent (Refer Note 45 C)
 489.10 
 328.61 
Energy costs
 328.45 
 315.13 
Repairs and maintenance
 353.30 
 434.42 
Rates and taxes
 120.21 
 111.63 
Printing and stationery
 217.83 
 223.05 
Travelling and conveyance
 1,238.00 
 1,035.05 
Advertising and publicity
 940.10 
 829.92 
Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
 109.58 
 47.72 
Payment to auditors (Refer note (i) below)
 31.04 
 22.71 
Insurance
 218.26 
 322.91 
Communication expenses
 447.52 
 419.95 
Legal and professional charges 
 601.91 
 484.80 
Corporate social responsibility expenses (Refer note (ii) below)
 465.64 
 415.06 
Other expenditure
 471.09 
 555.01 
IT support
 438.92 
 391.29 
Software Costs
 283.70 
 220.24 
Security charges
 57.66 
 64.57 
Total
 6,812.31 
 6,222.07 
Note (i)	 Payment to auditors
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
As auditors:
Audit Fees
 23.39 
 21.39 
Other Services 
 7.65 
 1.32 
Total
 31.04 
 22.71 
Note (ii) Details of CSR expenditure
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
a)	
Gross amount required to be spent by the group during the year
 460.46 
 472.16 
Paid
Yet to be paid 
 Total 
b)	
Amount spent during the year ended on 31 March 2025
	
i)	
Construction/acquisition of assets
 79.13 
 - 
 79.13 
	
ii)	
On purpose other than (i) above
 376.26 
 10.25 
 386.51 
Paid
Yet to be paid 
 Total 
c)	
Amount spent during the year ended on 31st March, 2024
	
i)	
Construction/acquisition of assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
ii)	
On purpose other than (i) above
 472.16 
 - 
 472.16 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
357
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
d)	
CSR amount Unspent for the financial year
	
Amount Transfer to Unspent CSR amount
 - 
 - 
	
FY 2021-22
 - 
 76.55 
	
FY 2022-23	
 - 
 17.20 
	
FY 2023-24
 - 
 - 
	
FY 2024-25
 10.25 
 - 
Total
 10.25 
 93.75 
Current Year 2024-25
In case of S. 135(5) Excess amount spent
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing Balance
 -   
 460.46 
 465.64 
 5.19 
In case of S. 135(6) (Ongoing Project) (to be given year-wise)
Opening Balance
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
With 
Company
In Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
From Company’s 
Bank A/c
From Separate 
CSR Unspent A/c
With Company
In Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
-
10.25
-
-
-
-
10.25
Previous Year 2023-24
In case of S. 135(5) Excess amount spent
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing Balance
-
-
-
-
In case of S. 135(6) (Ongoing Project) (to be given year-wise)
Opening Balance
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
With 
Company
In Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
From Company’s 
Bank A/c
From Separate 
CSR Unspent A/c
With Company
In Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
-
FY 2022-23- ` 13.14 
Million
 13.14 
 -   
 13.14 
 -   
 -   
-
FY 2021-22- ` 
43.96 Million
 43.96 
 -   
 43.96 
 -   
 -   
Reason for shortfall in CSR expenditure: The amount remains unspent is pertaining to the ongoing projects and the same have been 
transferred to CSR unspent account. There were procedural delays in getting permission from statutory authorities to complete the 
projects which lead to extend the projects more than one year. The amount so transferred will be spend with in a period of 3 years. 
Nature of CSR expenditure: CSR projects of the Group are focused on
i)	
Promotion of quality education
ii)	
Promotion of healthcare/preventive healthcare
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
358
iii)	
Rural development projects measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially and economically backward group
iv)	
Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition
v)	
Women empowerment
vi)	
Environment sustainability etc.
which includes both ongoing and one year projects.
Details of related party transactions with respect to CSR expenditure are showed under note 47.
Note 38: Income Tax
The Group has computed the tax expense of the current financial year and previous year as per the tax regime announced under 
section 115BAA of the income Tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, the provision for current and deferred tax has been determined at the rate 
of 25.17%.
The components of income tax expense for the period ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 are: 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Current tax
 6,364.09 
 8,008.10 
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years
 5.03 
 4.37 
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (1,751.48)
 (392.24)
Total tax charge
 4,617.64 
 7,620.23 
Reconciliation of Income tax expense:
The tax charge shown in the statement of profit and loss differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been charged 
at Indian corporate tax rate.
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Profit before tax 
 16,656.31 
29,595.18
Allowances / disallowances (Net)
 278.38 
 (15.69)
Adjusted profit / (loss) before tax for income tax
 16,934.69 
 29,579.48 
Current tax as per books (Effective rate of Tax)
 4,339.26 
 7,635.92 
-	
Income exempt from tax
 - 
 - 
-	
Non deductible tax expenses (donations, corporate social responsibility, 
interest late payments and penalty)
 (0.64)
 54.54 
-	
Income tax at different rates
 10.91 
 29.14 
-	
Effect of deferred tax remeasurement
 263.08 
 (103.74)
-	
Effect of change in previous year tax 
 - 
 17.26 
-	
Current tax relating to earlier years
 5.03 
 (12.89)
Current tax as per statement of profit and loss
 4,617.64 
 7,620.23 
All India Statutory income tax rate of 25.17% (2024 - 25.17%)
 4,262.46 
 7,445.16 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
359
Deferred tax
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the balance sheet and changes recorded in the income tax expense:
Particulars
Deferred 
tax assets
Deferred 
tax 
liabilities
Income 
statement 
gain / 
(charge)
OCI gain / 
(charge)
Others - 
Adjusted in 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss 
in other equity
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Provisions for litigations and compensated absences
 96.03 
 - 
 2.95 
 - 
 - 
Property, plant and equipment and Right of use asset (Net of 
lease liabilities)
 371.83 
 - 
 24.13 
 - 
 - 
'Right of use asset (Net of lease liabilities)
 1,376.67 
 (1,037.21)
 20.94 
 - 
 - 
Impairment allowance for financial assets
 2,714.24 
 - 
 1,552.18 
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plan
 223.45 
 - 
 6.71 
 12.57 
 - 
Derivative instruments in cash flow hedge relationship
 21.62 
 (2.14)
 0.67 
 (5.91)
 - 
Debt instrument measured at amortised cost
 - 
 (198.46)
 (46.39)
 - 
 - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
 135.34 
 (213.21)
 (67.60)
 - 
 - 
Other temporary differences
 76.41 
 (33.37)
 13.15 
 - 
 - 
Provision for fraud insurance claim receivable
 52.59 
 - 
 3.48 
 - 
 - 
Borrowings
 62.56 
 - 
 38.23 
 - 
 - 
Effective interest rate on PTC loans
 3.97 
 - 
 162.85 
 - 
 - 
Unamortised processing fess
 - 
 (4.73)
 (3.24)
 - 
 - 
Present value discounting of security deposit and 
documentation fee
 126.44 
 - 
 22.10 
 - 
 - 
Fair valuation gain on ETF
 0.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-Effect on Loss carried forward
 - 
 - 
 27.67 
 - 
 - 
Equity Investment held as FVOCI 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investment held as FVOCI 
 - 
 (12.35)
 - 
 (19.16)
 - 
 - 
 (6.35)
 (6.35)
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,261.37  (1,507.83)
 (1,751.48) 
 (12.50)
 - 
Net deferred tax asset as at 31 March 2025
 3,753.54 
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the balance sheet and changes recorded in the income tax expense:
Particulars
Deferred 
tax assets
Deferred 
tax 
liabilities
Income 
statement 
gain / 
(charge)
OCI gain / 
(charge)
Others - 
Adjusted in 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss 
in other equity
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
Provisions for litigations and compensated absences
 93.08 
 - 
 4.18 
 - 
 - 
Property, plant and equipment and Right of use asset (Net of 
lease liabilities)
 317.40 
 - 
 79.55 
 - 
 - 
'Right of use asset (Net of lease liabilities)
 1,401.80 
 (1,081.85)
 55.58 
 - 
 - 
Impairment allowance for financial assets
 1,162.06 
 - 
 189.31 
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plan
 204.90 
 - 
 84.31 
 9.50 
 - 
Derivative instruments in cash flow hedge relationship
 31.54 
 - 
 - 
 28.88 
 - 
Debt instrument measured at amortised cost
 - 
 (152.07)
 7.25 
 - 
 - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
 151.52 
 (161.79)
 (41.50)
 - 
 - 
Other temporary differences
 65.00 
 (35.11)
 (15.73)
 - 
 - 
Provision for fraud insurance claim receivable
 49.12 
 - 
 20.88 
 - 
 - 
Borrowings
 24.33 
 - 
 15.79 
 - 
 - 
Effective interest rate on PTC loans
 - 
 (158.88)
 (30.13)
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
360
Particulars
Deferred 
tax assets
Deferred 
tax 
liabilities
Income 
statement 
gain / 
(charge)
OCI gain / 
(charge)
Others - 
Adjusted in 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss 
in other equity
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
2023-24
Cash flow hedge reserve
 - 
 (6.14)
 - 
 10.36 
 - 
Unamortised processing fess
 (1.49)
 - 
 (6.75)
 - 
 - 
Present value discounting of security deposit and 
documentation fee
 104.34 
 - 
 29.48 
 - 
 - 
Equity Investment held as FVOCI 
 (0.01)
 - 
 0.00 
Investment held as FVOCI 
 6.81 
 - 
 - 
 (6.09)
ESOP Contribution
 0.43 
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
Total
 3,610.84  (1,595.86)
 (392.24)
 42.65 
 - 
Net deferred tax asset as at 31 March 2024
 2,014.98 
Reconciliation of deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance 
 2,014.98 
 1,580.09 
Recognised in statement of profit and loss/adjustment
 1,751.48 
 392.24 
Recognised in statement of profit and loss under OCI
 (12.50)
 42.65 
Closing Balance
 3,753.54 
 2,014.98 
Note 39: Earnings per share
Particulars
For the year ended 
31st March, 2025
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
Net profit for calculation of basic earnings per share
12,038.67
21,974.95
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic earnings per share 
(Nos.) 
84,64,34,729
84,64,17,680
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted earnings per share 
(Nos.) 
84,64,34,729
84,64,17,680
Basic earnings per share (`) 
14.22
25.96
Diluted earnings per share (`) 
14.22
25.96
Note 40: Investment in subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Group and its subsidiaries. Group does not have any joint 
ventures or associates. Manappuram Finance Limited is the ultimate parent of the Group. 
Subsidiaries of the Group are:
Name of subsidiary
Country of 
incorporation
% equity interest
% equity interest
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Manappuram Home Finance Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited 
India
97.60%
97.60%
Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
India
99.81%
99.81%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
361
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited is the only significant subsidiary of Group that has a non-controlling interest (31 March 2025: 2.40%, 
31 March 2024: 2.40%). The following table summarises key information relevant to Asirvad Micro Finance Limited:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Loans to customers and staff
70,160.92
1,02,968.78
Other assets
17,518.52
22,136.01
Trade payables
281.31
212.15
Other liabilities
72,250.55
1,03,401.64
Net assets
15,147.58
21,490.99
Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary
363.54
515.78
Net interest margin
15,646.10
15,666.75
Profit after tax
(6,387.17)
4,583.05
Profit allocated to non-controlling interest
(153.29)
109.99
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
-
-
Note 41: Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS), 2016
The details of the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2016 are as under:
Date of share holders’ approval 
05 July 2016
Number of options approved 
2,52,36,214
Date of grant 
08 August 2016
Method of Accounting
The Holding Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost 
of stock options to employees. The fair value of options used are estimated on the date of 
grant using the Black Scholes Model. The key assumptions used in Black Scholes Model for 
calculating fair value as on the date of grant are:
(Rf ) Interest Rate
Expected Life
Dividend Yield
Expected Volatility
7.03% to 7.25%
3 to 5 years
2.95%
49.68%-55.38%
Date of In principle Approval 
In principle approval of the BSE was obtained on 20 December 2016 and NSE on 28 
December 2016.
Number of options granted 
1,37,50,466
Method of settlement 
Equity
Graded Vesting 
Graded vesting shall happen in a graded basis in three tranches over a period of three years.
a)	
The first tranche of 30% shall be vested when a period of 12 months would expire from 
the Date of grant;
b)	
The second tranche of 30% shall be vested when a period of 24 months would expire 
from the Date of grant;
c)	
The third tranche of 40% shall be vested when a period of 36 months would expire 
from the Date of grant.
Exercisable period 
The vested options shall be allowed for exercise on and from the date of vesting. The vested 
options need to be exercised with in a period of one year and 30 days from the date of 
vesting of the respective tranche through the exercise window to apply for ESOS shares 
against options vested with the eligible employee in pursuance of the scheme. However, 
the eligible employee has a right to exercise the options vested in the first tranche and 
second tranche on or before the expiry of the exercise period of the third tranche, utilising 
the exercise window which shall be a period of 30 days from the close of each half of the 
year counted from the date of vesting during the exercise period.
Vesting conditions 
Options shall vest essentially based on continuation of employment and apart from that the 
Board or Committee may prescribe achievement of any performance condition(s) for vesting.
Source of shares 
Primary
Variation in terms of options 
No Variations made to the term of Scheme
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
362
The Company has adopted ESOS 2016 as per SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulation, 2014 and has recorded a 
compensation expense using the fair value method as set out in those regulations.
The Group has granted 137,50,466 options at an exercise price of 86.45 on 08 August 2016 which will vest over a period of three 
years from the grant date (08 August 2016) and the vesting of options shall be at 30% each in the first and second year and the 
balance 40% in the third year from the date of grant.
The summary of the movements in options is given below:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Options outstanding, beginning of year 
 - 
 40,000.00 
Options granted during the year 
 - 
 - 
Lapsed options restored during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options lapsed during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options exercised during the year 
 - 
 (40,000.00) 
Options unvested and outstanding at the end of the year 
 - 
 - 
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Weighted average remaining contract life of options
 - 
 - 
Weighted average market price at the exercise date 
 - 
 152.95 
Particulars 
Vesting I 
Vesting II 
Vesting III
8th August, 2017 30% 8th August, 2018 30% 8th August, 2019 40% 
Fair value per vest (`) 
26.11
30.61
34.29
Risk-free interest rate (%) 
7.03
7.15
7.25
Expected life 
3 years 
4 years 
5 years 
Expected volatility (%) 
49.68
52.66
55.38
Expected dividend yield (%) 
2.95
2.95
2.95
Share price on the date of grant (face value of ` 10/-) 
86.45
86.45
86.45
The expected volatility of the stock has been determined based on historical volatility of the stock. The period over which volatility 
has been considered is the expected life of the option.   
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS), 2019
The details of the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 are as under:
Date of share holders’ approval 
February 2, 2019
Number of options approved 
8,30,000
Date of grant 
July 1,  2019
Number of options granted
8,30,000
Method of settlement 
Equity
Graded Vesting 
30% after two years from the date of grant i.e. July 1, 2021 and 35% after three years  from 
the date of grant i.e. July 1,2022 and the balance 35% after four year from the date of grant 
i.e. July 1, 2023
Exercisable period 
1 year from graded vesting date
Vesting conditions 
Continuous employment /service as on relevant date of vesting and pre-determined 
performance parameters, if any
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
363
The Company has adopted the Employee Stock Option Scheme framed in accordance with the Section 62(1)(c) of the Companies Act 
2013 read with Rules 12 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debenture) Rules, 2014 made thereunder. 
The Company has granted 8,30,000 options at an exercise price of ` 364/-  on July 1,2019 which will vest over a period of four years 
from the grant date (30% after two years from the date of grant i.e. July 1, 2021 and 35% after three years  from the date of grant 
i.e. July 1,2022 and the balance 35% after four years from the date of grant i.e. July 1, 2023.  The exercise period commences from 
the date of vesting and will expire not later than one year from the date of vesting. 
(b)	 The summary of the movements in options is given below: 
Particulars 
31st March 2025
31st March 2024
Options outstanding, beginning of year 
 17,500 
 64,750 
Options granted during the year 
 - 
 - 
Increase on account of Bonus issue 
 - 
 - 
Lapsed options restored during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options lapsed during the year period ended
 - 
 18,375 
Options lapsed during the year due to end of exercise period for tranche
 17,500 
 28,875 
Options expired during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options exercised during the year 
 - 
 - 
Options vested and Outstanding at the End of the Year 
 - 
 17,500 
Options outstanding at the year end comprise of :
-	
Options eligible for exercise at year end 
 - 
 17,500 
-	
Options not eligible for exercise at year end
 - 
Options vested and Outstanding at the End of the Year 
 - 
 17,500 
(c)	 Pro-forma Disclosures for ESOS :
In accordance with SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999, the compensation 
cost for ESOS 2019 was required to be recognised based on the fair value on the date of grant i.e. in FY 2019-20. The Company 
has rectified the prior period error by giving retrospective effect of ESOP expenses and tax impact in the opening reserves of FY 
2022-23, thereby providing reliable and more relevant information about the Company’s financial position. The imapct of such change 
is as follows: 
Particulars 
increase / (decrease)
As at and for the year 
ended March 31, 2022
ESOP expense
 143.96 
Deferred Tax
 36.24 
Earnings per share (in `) (Face value of `10 per equity share)
-	
Basic
 (0.07)
-	
Diluted 
 (0.07)
Expenses recognised in the Profit and loss accounts for the year ended March 31, 2025, is ` 0.00 in Lakhs (for the year ended 
March 31, 2024 ` (0.64) in Lakhs)
Tax impact for year March 31, 2025 is ` 0 in Lakhs (for the year ended March 31, 2024 ` (0.16) in Lakhs).
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
364
(d)	 The fair value of options estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes method and the assumptions 
used are as under:
Grant Date
01-07-2019
Option Price Model
Black Scholes Method
Exercise Price
364.00 
Share Price on Grant Date
239.37 
Expected Volatility
0.50 
Expected time to exercise shares
1 Year after Vesting i.e. last possible exercise date
Risk-free rate of return
6.61% - 7.00%
Dividend Yield
 -   
Fair Value of ESOP at Grant Date
63.24 - 96.7
Weighted Average Fair Value of ESOP at Grant Date
81.18 
Method used to determine expected volatility
The expected volatility is based on price volatility of similar 
NBFC Listed company. 
Note 42: Retirement Benefit Plan
Defined Contribution Plan
The Group makes Provident Fund and Employee State Insurance Scheme contributions which are defined contribution plans, for 
qualifying employees. Under the schemes, the Group is required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs to fund the 
benefits. The Group recognized  `1,102.26 Mn (31 March 2024: ` 976.96 Mn) for Provident Fund contributions and `  229.54 Mn(31 
March 2024: ` 211.35 Mn) for Employee State Insurance Scheme contributions in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The contributions 
payable to these plans by the Group are at rates specified in the rules of the schemes.
Defined Benefit Plan
The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more of service gets a gratuity 
on departure at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The scheme is funded with Life Insurance 
Corporation of India and Kotak Life Insurance.
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognized in the statement of profit and loss and the funded 
status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the gratuity plan.
Net employee benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss   
Components of employer expense
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Current service cost 
 308.77 
 276.48 
Interest cost on benefit obligation 
 120.92 
 111.49 
Past service cost 
 3.36 
 - 
Net interest on net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
 11.72 
 13.38 
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss
 64.14 
 32.71 
Benefits paid
 (214.73)
 (249.77)
Total employer expense recognised in statement of profit and loss
 294.19 
 184.28 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
365
Net employee benefit expense recognised in the Other Comprehensive Income
Movement in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Balance at start of year (loss)/gain
 (132.06)
 (130.15)
Actuarial (loss)/gain from changes in financial assumptions
 (50.38)
 (7.38)
Actuarial (loss)/gain from experience over the past year
 (2.85)
 3.19 
Return on plan assets, excluding amount included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability/(asset)
 12.87 
 2.28 
Actuarial (loss) / gain from changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of year (loss)/gain
 (172.42)
 (132.06)
Experience adjustments  
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Defined benefit obligation 
 2,007.67 
 1,729.20 
Fair value of plan assets 
 1,723.40 
 1,488.63 
Asset/(liability) recognized in the balance sheet 
 (293.32)
 (207.73)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (gain) / loss 
 (5.50)
 (32.99)
Experience adjustments on plan assets gain / (loss) 
 15.04 
 (12.73)
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are as follows:     
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Opening defined benefit obligation 
 1,733.02 
 1,568.45 
Transfer in/out 
 (0.85)
 (6.32)
Interest cost 
 120.92 
 111.47 
Current service cost 
 308.77 
 276.48 
Benefits paid 
 (214.73)
 (249.77)
Past service cost 
 3.36 
 - 
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from changes in demographic assumptions
 (8.09)
 - 
Actuarial loss / (gain)  from changes in financial assumptions
 58.57 
 10.20 
Actuarial loss / (gain)  from experience over the past year
 13.66 
 22.51 
Adjustments
 - 
Closing defined benefit obligation 
 2,014.63 
 1,733.02 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Opening fair value of plan assets 
 1,492.99 
 1,339.70 
Transfer in/out 
 (0.85)
 (6.59)
Expected return 
 107.34 
 95.65 
Contributions by employer 
 319.20 
 321.11 
Benefits paid 
 (214.73)
 (249.77)
Actuarial gains / (losses) 
 14.66 
 (9.43)
Interest income on Plan Assets
 1.86 
 2.45 
Return on plan assets excluding amount included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability/ (asset)
 0.86 
 (0.13)
On acquisition of Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
Closing fair value of plan assets 
 1,721.32 
 1,492.99 
Expected contribution to fund to be made in the next year 
 210.00 
 250.00 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
366
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity obligations for the Group’s plans are shown below:
A)	
Holding Company
 	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Discount rate 
6.40%
7.00%
Salary growth rate
9.00%
9.00%
Attrition rate 
20.00%
20.00%
Expected rate of return on assets 
7.00%
7.10%
B)	
Subsidiary Companies
(i)	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Discount rate 
6.40%
6.90%
Expected rate of salary increase
10.00%
10.00%
Withdrawal Rate
(i) 	
below 35 years
35.00%
35.00%
(ii)	
above 35 years
30.00%
20.00%
Mortality Rate
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
(ii)	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Salary Escalation
8.00%
8.00%
Discount rate 
6.30%
6.90%
Attrition rate 
-	
Managerial grade and above
15.00%
15.00%
-	
Below managerial grade
50.00%
50.00%
Mortality Rate
IALM 2012-14 (Ult.)
IALM 2012-14 (Ult.)
Expected rate of return on assets 
6.90%
7.10%
(iii)	 Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Discount rate
6.40%
7.00%
Salary increase rate
8.00%
8.00%
Mortality Rate
IALM 2012-14 (Ult.)
IALM 2012-14 (Ult.)
Expected Return on Plan Assets
7.00%
7.10%
Withdrawal (rate of employee turnover)
20.00%
20.00%
(iv)	 Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Discount rate 
6.40%
7.00%
Salary growth rate
7.00%
6.00%
Attrition rate
20.00%
5.00%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
367
Percentage Break-down of Total Plan Assets
A)	
Holding Company
	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Real estate
0.00%
0.00%
Derivatives
0.00%
0.00%
Investment Funds with Insurance Company
99.67%
99.66%
Of which, Unit Linked
0.00%
0.00%
Of which, Traditional/ Non-Unit Linked
99.67%
99.66%
Asset-backed securities
0.00%
0.00%
Structured debt
0.00%
0.00%
Cash and cash equivalents
0.33%
0.34%
Total
100%
100%
B)	
Subsidiary Companies
(i) 	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Investment Funds with insurance company
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
(ii)	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Investment funds with Insurance Company
96%
95%
Of which, Unit Linked
0%
0%
Of which, Traditional/ Non-Unit Linked
96%
95%
Total
96%
95%
(iii)	 Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Investment Funds with insurance company
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
Sensitivity Analysis
A)	
Holding Company
Manappuram Finance Limited
Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Discount rate 
 Discount rate 
Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
Impact on defined benefit obligation [Increase/(Decrease)]
(80.08)
88.56
(67.21)
74.08
Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Salary growth Rate
Salary growth Rate
Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
Impact on defined benefit obligation [Increase/(Decrease)]
85.52 
(78.95)
71.95 
(66.61)
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Withdrawal Rate
Withdrawal Rate
 Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation [Increase/(Decrease)]
(15.87)
17.10 
11.51 
(12.33)
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
368
B)	
Subsidiary Companies
(i) 	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Discount rate 
 Discount rate 
 Sensitivity Level 
0.50% 
increase 
0.50% 
decrease
0.50% 
increase 
0.50% 
decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (5.54)
 5.92 
 (5.77)
 6.23 
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Future salary increases 
 Future salary increases 
 Sensitivity Level 
0.50% 
increase 
0.50% 
decrease
0.50% 
increase 
0.50% 
decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 5.67 
 (5.41)
 5.99 
 (5.66)
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Withdrawal rate
Withdrawal rate
 Sensitivity Level 
0.50% 
increase 
0.50% 
decrease
0.50% 
increase 
0.50% 
decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (1.97)
 2.05 
 (1.80)
 1.90 
(ii)	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Discount rate 
 Discount rate 
 Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (1.84)
 2.00 
 (1.61)
 1.72 
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Future salary increases 
 Future salary increases 
 Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 1.95 
 (1.83)
 1.69 
 (1.61)
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Withdrawal rate
Withdrawal rate
 Sensitivity Level 
1% increase 
1% decrease
1% increase 
1% decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (0.39)
 (0.41)
 (0.25)
 0.26 
(iii)	 Manappuram Insurance Brokers Limited
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Discount rate 
 Discount rate 
 Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (0.32)
 0.35 
 (0.31)
 0.34 
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Future salary increases 
 Future salary increases 
 Sensitivity Level 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 1% increase 
 1% decrease 
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 0.34 
 (0.32)
 0.33 
 (0.31)
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
369
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Withdrawal rate
Withdrawal rate
 Sensitivity Level 
1% increase 
1% decrease
1% increase 
1% decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (0.04)
 0.04 
 (0.03)
 0.03 
(iv)	 Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Limited
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Discount rate 
 Discount rate 
 Sensitivity Level 
1% increase 
1% decrease
1% increase 
1% decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (1.60)
 1.76 
 (3.10)
 3.59 
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
 Future salary increases 
 Future salary increases 
 Sensitivity Level 
1% increase 
1% decrease
1% increase 
1% decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 1.73 
 (1.61)
 3.59 
 (3.15)
 Assumptions 
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Withdrawal rate
Withdrawal rate
 Sensitivity Level 
1% increase 
1% decrease
1% increase 
1% decrease
 Impact on defined benefit obligation 
 (0.27)
 0.28 
 (0.04)
 0.09 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 March 2025 is 4 years (2024: 4 years)
The fund is administered by Life Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”) and Kotak Life Insurance. The overall expected rate of return 
on assets is determined  based on the market prices prevailing on that date, applicable to the period over which the obligation is to 
be settled.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inﬂation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
The principal assumptions used in determining leave encashment obligations for the Group’s plans are shown below:
A) 	 Holding Company
Manappuram Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025 %
31st March, 2024 %
Discount rate 
7.00%
7.10%
Attrition rate 
20.00%
20.00%
Salary escalation 
9.00%
9.00%
B)	
Subsidiary Companies
(i)	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025 %
31st March, 2024 %
Discount rate
6.40%
6.90%
Salary escalation 
10%
10%
Attrition Rate
(i)	
below 35 years
35%
35%
(ii)	
above 35 years
30%
20%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
370
(ii)	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Particulars
31st March, 2025 %
31st March, 2024 %
Discount rate 
6.30%
6.90%
Attrition rate 
-	
Managerial grade and above
15.00%
15.00%
-	
Below managerial grade
50.00%
50.00%
Salary escalation 
8.00%
8.00%
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Government of India securities as at the balance sheet date for the estimated 
term of the obligations.
The estimate of future salary increases considered, takes into account the inﬂation, seniority, promotion, increments and other 
relevant factors.
Note 43: Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled. 
Derivatives have been classified to mature and/or be repaid within 12 months, regardless of the actual contractual maturities of the 
products. With regard to loans and advances to customers, the Group uses the same basis of expected repayment behaviour as used 
for estimating the EIR. Issued debt reflect the contractual coupon amortisations.
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March 2024
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Assets
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
30,826.88
-
30,826.88
25,417.15
-
25,417.15
Bank balance other than above
5,928.90
1,321.13
7,250.03
4,706.49
1,688.86
6,395.35
Derivative financial instruments
(34.99)
447.99
413.00
-
25.45
25.45
Trade receivables
-
-
-
-
-
-
Loans
3,31,547.62
90,967.93
4,22,515.55
3,30,353.53
79,122.14
4,09,475.67
Investments
3,181.43
4,695.91
7,877.34
54.44
7,208.93
7,263.37
Other financial assets
4,871.35
663.50
5,534.85
4,045.24
349.77
4,395.02
Non-financial Assets
Current tax asset
-
1,546.14
1,546.14
-
745.08
745.08
Deferred tax assets (net)
-
3,753.54
3,753.54
-
2,014.98
2,014.98
Investment property
-
0.86
0.86
-
0.86
0.86
Property, plant and equipment
-
5,064.80
5,064.80
-
4,402.23
4,402.23
Capital work-in-progress
-
114.70
114.70
-
333.46
333.46
Intangible assets under development 
-
-
0.14
0.14
Right of use asset
-
5,389.60
5,389.60
-
5,584.71
5,584.71
Goodwill
-
355.65
355.65
-
355.65
355.65
Other intangible assets
-
528.83
528.83
-
355.35
355.35
Other non financial assets
739.67
135.50
875.16
609.94
104.61
714.55
Total assets
3,77,060.86
1,14,986.07
4,92,046.93
3,65,186.79
1,02,292.22 4,67,479.02
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
371
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March 2024
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
-
-
-
-
-
-
Trade Payables
1,201.30
-
1,201.30
1,218.78
-
1,218.78
Debt Securities
15,021.75
47,162.98
62,184.73
24,214.95
27,585.09
51,800.04
Borrowings (other than debt security)
1,69,925.08
1,17,254.81
2,87,179.89
1,80,347.99
99,521.32
2,79,869.31
Deposits
-
-
-
0.70
-
0.70
Subordinated Liabilities
4,848.77
-
4,848.77
4,864.63
-
4,864.63
Lease Liability
1,436.42
5,120.00
6,556.42
809.65
5,854.53
6,664.18
Other Financial liabilities
1,778.21
2,265.01
4,043.22
2,317.21
2,097.76
4,414.97
Non-financial Liabilities
Current tax liabilities (net)
Provisions
753.50
50.82
804.32
696.98
27.80
724.79
Other non-financial liabilities
739.63
-
739.63
2,151.84
-
2,151.84
Total Liabilities
1,95,704.66
1,71,853.62
3,67,558.29
2,16,622.74 1,35,086.49
3,51,709.23
Net
1,81,356.19
(56,867.54)
1,24,488.65 1,48,564.05
(32,794.26)
1,15,769.79
Note 44: Change in liabilities arising from financing activities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
Cash Flows
Ind AS 
Adjustments
As at 
31st March, 2025
Debt securities
51,800.04
11,602.37
(1,217.68)
62,184.73
Borrowings other than debt securities
2,79,869.31
4,053.25
3,257.33
2,87,179.89
Lease liability
6,664.18
892.46
(1,000.22)
6,556.42
Subordinated liabilities
4,864.63
(15.86)
-
4,848.77
Total liabilities from financing activities
3,43,198.16
16,532.22
1,039.43
3,60,769.81
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2023
Cash Flows
Ind AS 
Adjustments
As at 
31st March, 2024
Debt securities
62,641.86
(10,221.75)
(620.07)
51,800.04
Borrowings other than debt securities
2,18,246.50
62,036.12
(413.31)
2,79,869.31
Lease liability
6,837.31
844.50
(1,017.63)
6,664.18
Subordinated liabilities
3,940.11
924.52
-
4,864.63
Total liabilities from financing activities
2,91,665.78
53,583.39
(2,051.01)
3,43,198.16
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
372
Note 45: Contingent liabilities, commitments and leasing arrangements
(A)	 Contingent Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Claims against the company not acknowledged as debt;
a.	
In respect of Income Tax Demands where the company has filed appeal 
before various authorities
 1,780.54 
 990.84 
b.	
In respect of GST(Goods and Service Tax) where the company has filed 
appeal before various authorities
 127.89 
 33.13 
c.	
In respect of VAT(Value Added Tax) where the company has filed appeal 
before various authorities
 53.24 
 44.99 
d.	
Litigations relating to other than regulatory autorities
 2.24 
 - 
Total
 1,963.91 
 1,068.95 
Notes:
	
(a)	
Applicability of Kerala Money Lenders’ Act :
	
	
The Holding Company has challenged in the Hon’ble Supreme Court the order of Hon’ble Kerala High Court upholding the 
applicability of Kerala Money Lenders Act to NBFCs.  The Hon’ble Supreme Court has directed that a status quo on the 
matter shall be maintained and the matter is currently pending with the Hon’ble Supreme Court.  The Company has taken 
legal opinion on the matter and based on such opinion the management is confident of a favourable outcome.  Pending 
the resolution of the same, no adjustments have been made in the financial statements for the required license fee and 
Security deposits.
(b)	
The Holding Company has some labour cases pending against it in various courts and with labour Commissioners of various 
States.  The Company’s liability for these cases are not disclosed since actual liability to be provided is unascertainable.
	
Income Tax (A.Y. 2015-16)
During the FY 2017-18, Asirvad Micro Finance Limited has received an Assessment order under Section 143(3) for the AY 
2015-16 with a demand of ` 1,124.50 by taxing the receipt of share premium amount received by the Company as unexplained 
cash credits, expense claimed towards employee stock option scheme and disallowance of depreciation under Section 32 of 
the Income Tax Act, 1961.
The Company has filed appeals against the above with the CIT(A) and paid an amount of ` 224.90 Lakhs being 20% of the total 
demand and the same has been disclosed as part of Deposit under protest.Further the case is dismissed without addressing the 
appallants specific arguements and the Company filed appeal against ITAT and expecting a favourable outcome in this regard.
	
Income Tax (A.Y. 2016-17)
During the FY 2018-19, the Asirvad Micro Finance Limited has received an Assessment order under Section 143(3) for the 
AY 2016-17 with a demand of ` 1,978.91 Lakhs by taxing the receipt of share premium amount received by the Company as 
unexplained cash credits under Section 56(2)(viib) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
The Company has filed appeals against the above with the CITiA) and paid an amount of ` 395.78 Lakhs being 20% of the total 
demand and the same has been disclosed as part of Deposit under protest.Further the case is dismissed without addressing the 
appallants specific arguements and the Company filed appeal against ITAT and expecting a favourable outcome in this regard.
	
Income Tax (A.Y. 2017-18)
As per the order under Section 143(3), received by Asirvad Micro Finance Limited, the Assessing Officer (AO) concluded that 
the assessee had claimed interest passed on to the SPV Trust in relation to a securitization transaction as a reduction from 
its income, amounting to `2899.57 lakhs. The AO added back this amount, alleging that it was a ‘finance cost’ claimed by the 
assessee on securitized assets that no longer belonged to it.
However, the interest on the securitization loan was only reduced from the corresponding gross finance income, which includes 
interest on securitized assets. In a securitization arrangement, the interest on securitized loans is not the appellant’s income, as 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
373
it accrues to the Issuer and not to the appellant. Therefore, the question of substantiating this under the Income Tax Act does 
not arise, as it is not the appellant’s income.
Additionally, the AO disallowed an amount of `162 Lakhs under Section 69A, representing Specified Bank Notes accepted and 
deposited by the assessee in its bank accounts during the demonetization period and the company has created a provision to 
the tune of `172.57 Lakhs for the same.
The Company has filed an appeal against this order with CIT(A) and has paid `304.27 lakhs, being 20% of the total demand, 
which has been disclosed as a ‘Deposit under Protest.’ However, the appeal was dismissed without addressing the appellant’s 
specific arguments. Consequently, the Company has filed an appeal with ITAT and expects a favorable outcome in this regard.
	
Income Tax (A.Y. 2020-21)
As per the order under Section 143(3), the Income Tax Department raised a demand of `2,134.39 lakhs due to discrepancies 
related to incorrect reporting of ICDS Adjustment,bonus and leave encashment in the ITR vis-à-vis the tax audit report, and 
delays in remitting employee contributions to the PF. The Company has created a provision of `180.90 lakhs for expenses that 
may be disallowed. The remaining demand stands at `1,953.49 lakhs.
The Company filed an appeal with CIT(A), which was dismissed without addressing the appellant’s specific arguments. 
Consequently, the Company has filed an appeal with ITAT and expects a favorable outcome in this regard.
	
Income Tax (A.Y. 2021-22)
As per the intimation received under Section 143(1), by Asirvad Micro Finance Limited, the expenses amounting to `1,560.61 
lakhs were disallowed, resulting in a tax demand of `557.35 lakhs and this was due to discrepancies in the reporting of bonus, 
leave encashment, and gratuity between the Income Tax Return (ITR) and the Tax Audit Report, as well as delays in remitting 
employees’ contributions to PF/ESI and recovery of bad and doubtful debt u/s 41. However, the management believes that 
only `195.03 lakhs needs to be disallowed and accordingly, a provision of `55.98 lakhs has been created, and the remaining 
demand amounts is `501.37 lakhs.
The company filed an appeal with the CIT(A), which was dismissed without addressing the appellant’s specific arguments. 
Subsequently, an appeal was filed with the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), which referred back the case for further 
assessment to CIT(A) and the company anticipates a favorable outcome in this regard.
	
Income Tax (A.Y. 2023-24)
The Central Processing Centre (CPC) processed the company’s return of income under Section 143(1) and determined a 
differential tax liability of `1,875.58 lakhs. This arose due to the disallowance of an amount under Section 41, treating bad debt 
recovery as taxable, despite it already being reported as other income in the Income Tax Return and deductions claimed under 
Section 80JJAA were disallowed due to procedural lapses. The company has filed an appeal with the Commissioner of Income 
Tax (Appeals) that the disallowances were unwarranted and a favorable outcome is expected in this regard.
	
GST (FY 2017-20)
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited had received notice in Form GST ADT -01 dated 27/04/2022 u/s 65 of CGST Act, 2017 intimating 
conduct of audit of Books of accounts for the  period 2017-18 to 2019-20. An Intimation of Form GST DRC - 01A bearing DIN: 
20230459X0000444A6D dated 11.04.2023 was issued proposing to demand tax along with interest for Excess availment of 
ISD ITC and Availment of Ineligible ITC amounting to Rs. 6.02 million. The Department has proceeded to issue Assessment Order 
and DRC-07 on 15/12/2023 upholding the demand. An Appeal against the Assessment order  has been filed on 13-03-2024 
and the company has a high chance of obtaing favourable order considering the facts and circumstances
	
GST (FY 2022-23)
During the FY 2024-25,  Asirvad Micro Finance Limited received a notice under Section 61 Rule 99 of the CGST Act 2017,dated 
21-1-25. This notice intimated a discrepancy in the return and alleged excess availment of ITC for FY 2022-23 amounting to 
Rs. 3.60 million. The company has since filed a reply to the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax. Given that there was no excess 
availment of Input Tax Credit, we believe the company has a high chance of a favourable outcome in this matter..
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
374
	
SEBI
During the financial year, Asirvad Micro Finance Limited received a Show Cause Notice from SEBI dated September 03, 2024 
(“SCN”), regarding certain matters w.r.t Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) issued under ISIN: INE516Q08281. The Company 
filed a detailed reply to this SCN. This matter is pending. The NCDs were redeemed on March 12, 2024.
	
Others
There are 5 cases relating to litigations pertaining to other than regulatory authorities where Asirvad Micro Finance Limited has 
adequately disclosed as contingent liablity.
(B)	 Commitments
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account, 
net of advances
 41.30 
 344.54 
Commitments Related To Loans Sanctioned but undrawn
 8,004.93 
 3,171.56 
Total
 8,046.23 
 3,516.10 
(C)	 Lease Disclosures
(a)	
Leases of branch premises
(i)	
Ind AS 116 “Leases” is applied the standard to all lease contracts The Group recorded the lease liability at the present value 
of the lease payments discounted at the incremental borrowing rate and the right of use asset measured at the amount 
of the initial measurement of the lease liability.
(ii)	
The following is the summary of practical expedients elected on initial application:
	
1.	
Applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases of similar assets in similar economic environment with a similar 
end date. Discount rate has been taken as the Incremental Borrowing rate of borrowings with similar tenure.
	
2.	
Applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months of lease 
term on the date of initial application.
	
3.	
Excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application.
(iii)	
The Group takes branch premises and computers on lease. Below are the changes made during the year in the 
carrying value of:
	
-Right-of-use assets
Particulars 
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Opening balance 
 5,584.71 
 5,965.39 
Recognition of deferred lease rentals
 0.22 
 - 
Additions 
 1,262.88 
 933.76 
Deletion 
 (126.53)
 - 
Depreciation on ROU Assets 
 (1,331.69)
 (1,314.44)
Closing balance 
 5,389.60 
 5,584.71 
	
-Lease liabilities
Particulars 
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Opening balance 
 6,664.18 
 6,837.31 
Additions 
 1,179.58 
 390.13 
Deletion 
 (98.64)
 (1,400.83)
Payment of Lease liabilities 
 (1,844.78)
 161.16 
Finance cost accrued during the period 
 656.09 
 676.41 
Closing balance 
 6,556.42 
 6,664.18 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
375
	
-Amounts recognised in profit and loss
 Particulars 
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets 
 1,331.69 
 1,314.44 
Interest expense on lease liabilities 
 656.09 
 676.41 
	
Maturity analysis of Lease Liability
 Particulars 
 As at 
31st March, 2025 
 As at 
31st March, 2024 
Not later than one year 
 1,436.42 
 809.65 
Later than one year but not later than four years 
 3,446.20 
 486.26 
Later than four years 
 1,673.80 
 5,368.27 
Closing  
 6,556.42 
 6,664.18 
The entity does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities. Lease liabilities are monitored within the 
entity’s treasury function.
	
Lease of Short Period (Less than 12 months)
The leases of certain premises are less than 12 months and hence are considered as short term leases and are exempted from 
the scope of leases under Ind AS 116.
Note 46:  Statement of net assets, profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and 
non-controlling interest 
Additional information as required by paragraph 2 of the general instructions for preparation of Consolidated Financial statements 
to schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 
Name of the entity in 
the Group
Net Assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit and loss
Share in Other 
comprehensive income
Share in Total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit and 
loss
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
As % of Total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
Parent :
Manappuram Finance 
Limited
94.69%
1,17,880.36
148.13%
17,832.66
(6.50%)
(2.42)
147.65%
17,830.25
Subsidiaries* :
 - 
Indian -
 - 
Manappuram Home 
Finance Limited
0.61%
753.76
1.89%
227.77
(5.43%)
(2.02)
1.87%
225.76
Manappuram Insurance 
Brokers Limited
0.89%
1,111.49
4.30%
517.78
(1.04%)
(0.39)
4.28%
517.40
Asirvad Micro Finance 
Limited
3.62%
4,501.62
(52.44%)
(6,312.66)
116.64%
43.33
(51.93%)
(6,269.32)
Manappuram Comptech 
and Consultants Limited
0.06%
74.64
(0.87%)
(104.19)
(5.94%)
(2.21)
(0.88%)
(106.40)
Foreign
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
Non controlling 
interest in 
subsidiaries
0.13%
166.79
(1.02%)
(122.70)
2.27%
0.84
(1.01%)
(121.86)
Total
100.00% 1,24,488.65
100.00%
12,038.67
100.00%
37.16
100.00%
12,075.83
* The Figures of the Net Assets, Share in Profit and Loss, Share in Other Comprehensive Income of all the subsidiaries have been adjusted for the intra-
group elimination enteries
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
376
Note 47: Related Party Disclosures
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Associates / Enterprises owned  or significantly 
influenced by key management  personnel or 
their relatives.
 Manappuram Jewellers Limited 
 Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 Manappuram Foundation 
 Manappuram Health Care Limited  
 Manappuram Construction and Consultants Limited 
 Manappuram Chit Funds Company Private Limited * 
 MABEN Nidhi Limited 
 Manappuram Asset Finance Limited 
 Manappuram Chits (Karnataka) Private Limited * 
 Manappuram Chits India Limited 
 Adlux Medicity and Convention Centre Private Limited* 
 MAFIN Enterprise * 
 Manappuram travels* 
 Manappuram Chits * 
 SNST Advisories Private Limited* 
 DTA Advisory Private Limited* 
 DTB Advisory Private Limited* 
 DT3 Advisory Private Limited* 
 Finance Industry Development Council 
 Kalyani Forge Limited* 
 Aquapharm Chemical Limited* 
 TVS Credit Services Limited* 
 Pramerica Life Insurance Limited* 
 Abans Global Ltd, UK* 
 Mukundapuram Educational and Cultural Society* 
 Orange Retail Finance India Private Limited* 
 Manappuram Finance Employees Group Gratuity Fund Trust 
 Earthables Projects LLP* 
 HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited* 
 Fenca Ltd UK (Formerly known as Fast Encash Money Transfer Services - 
Ltd)* 
 Rebar Design and Details Ltd* 
 Saral Money Ltd* 
 Association of UK Payment and Fintech Companies* 
 Firstsource Solutions Limited* 
 Gateway Gardens ( Block B) Management Ltd* 
 InCred Financial Services Limited* 
 Value Finance Corporation Limited* 
 Value Finance Ltd* 
 Cochin International Airport Limited* 
 Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode* 
 India Shelter Finance Corporation Limited* 
 Morgan & Harvey Services Ltd* 
 PCBL Chemical Limited* 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
377
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
 Minda Instruments Limited* 
 Minda Corporation Limited* 
 GPS Renewables Private Limited* 
 Aavali Solutions Private Limited* 
 Guru Deva International Mission* 
 MACARE Dental Care Private Limited* 
 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry 
  Infomerics Valuation And Rating Limited 
 Stallion Onebyte Private Limited 
 Manikandan Associates 
Key Management Personnel
 Mr. V P Nandakumar - Managing Director & CEO  
 Mr. Shailesh J Mehta-Chairman 
 Ms. Sumitha Nandan-Executive Director 
 Ms. Pratima Ram-Director 
 Mrs. Bindu AL - Chief Financial Officer 
 Mr. Manoj Kumar VR - Company Secretary 
 Mr.Suseel Kumar T C- Director 
 Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal-Director 
 Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemandini  
 Mr. Abhijit Sen-Director 
 Mr. Harshan Kollara-Director 
 Mr. E K Bharat Bhushan - Director 
Adv.V.R.Ramachandran - Non-Executive Director  
(tenure completed w.e.f. 31 July 2024)
Mr. P.Manomohanan - Non-Executive Director  
(tenure completed w.e.f. 31 July 2024)
Mr. S R Balasubramanian - Non-Executive Director  
(resigned w.e.f. 09 May 2024)
Relatives of Key Management Personnel 
 Mrs. Sushama Nandakumar (wife of Mr. V P Nandakumar)* 
 Mr. Sooraj Nandan (son of Mr. V P Nandakumar)* 
 Mr. Suhas Nandan (son of Mr. V P Nandakumar) 
 Mrs. Shelly Ekalavyan (sister of Mr. V P Nandakumar)* 
 Mrs.Jyothi Prasannan(sister of Mr.V.P.Nandakumar)* 
 Mr.Jayasankar S (Daughter's Husband of Mr. V P Nandakumar)* 
 Ms. Shruthi (Son's Wife of Mr. V P Nandakumar)* 
 Ms. Niniraj (Son's Wife of Mr. V P Nandakumar)* 
 Ms. Tamashree Sen (Wife of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Ms. Arati sen (Mother of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Mr. Rohan Sen (Son of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Mr. Vivek Sen (Son of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Ms. Snehal Naik (Son's Wife of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Ms. Amanda Barbee (Son's Wife of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Mr. Bishwajit Sen (Brother of Mr. Abhijit Sen)* 
 Ms. Geeta Balasubramanian (Wife of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)* 
 Mr. Ramnath Balasubramanian (Son of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)* 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
378
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
 Ms. Rajni Ramnath (Son's Wife of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)* 
 Mr. S R Gopalakrishnan (Brother of Mr.S R Balasubramanian)* 
 Ms. Subhadra Manomohan (Wife of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Mr. Sajith (Son of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Ms. Asha (Son's Wife of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Mr. Balachandran (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Mr. Suresh Kumar (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Mr. Ragunath (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Mr. Sreedharan (Brother of Mr. P.Manomohanan)* 
 Ms. Leena NS (Wife of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Ms. Anju VR (Daughter of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Mr. Rithwik V R (Son of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Mr. Sethunath S R(Daughter’s Husband of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Ms. Indira (Sister of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Mr. Sreedharan (Brother of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Mr. Paranunni (Brother of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Mr. Rishikeshan (Brother of Mr. V.R. Ramachandran)* 
 Mr. Nandakumar Kollara (Son of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Mr. Jaihari Kollara (Son of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Mrs.Elena T Kollara (Son's of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Dr.Sugathan Kollara  (Brother of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Mr. Sreenath Kollara (Brother of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Ms. Sarala K S (Sister of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Ms. Jayanthy K S (Sister of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
 Ms. Sunitha K S (Sister of Mr. Harshan Kollara)* 
  Ms. Kalpa (Wife of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
 Mr. Sameet S. Mehta (Son of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
 Ms. Kirtee S. Mehta (Son of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
 Ms. Sheetal Fisher (Daughter of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
 Ms. Sean Fisher (Daughter's Husband of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
 Mr. Sanjay Jayantilal Mehta (Brother of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
 Mr. Umesh Jayantilal Mehta (Brother of Mr. Shailesh J. Mehta)* 
Mr. S Ramasubramanian (Relative of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Jyotsna Ram (Daughter of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Mr. Prakash Patel (Brother of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Mr. Prabhuling Patel (Brother of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Pramila Byahatti (Sister of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Poornima Jairaj (Sister of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Vijayalakshmi Patel (Sister of Ms. Pratima Ram)*
Ms. Anushka Jayasankar (Daughter of Ms. Sumitha Nandan)*
Ms. Aashirya Jayasankar  (Daughter of Ms. Sumitha Nandan)*
Ms. Aswathy Sreevatsan (Daughter of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Mr. Sumit Saseendran (Son in law of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Mr. V P Sugunan (Brother of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
379
Relationship 
 Name of the party 
Ms. V P Lalitha (Sister of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. V P Surabhi (Sister of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. V P Geetha (Sister of Adv. Veliath Pappu Seemanthini )*
Ms. Maya V. V (Wife of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Gautam Suseel (Son of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Ms. Gayathri (Daughter of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Nikhil Shyam (Daughter's Husband of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
 Mr. Nanda Kumar (Brother of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Gopa Kumar (Brother of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Mr. Sanal Kumar (Brother of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Ms. Geetha Bhaskar (Sister of Mr. Suseel Kumar T. C)*
Ms. Betsy Rajagopal (Wife of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Rahul Raja (Son of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
 Ms. Rhea Raja (Daughter of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Venu P Gopal (Brother of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Sreekumar (Brother of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. Shibu Kumar (Brother of Mr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal)*
Mr. P K Vydiar (Father of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms. Rugmini  (Mother of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
 Ms. Ranjana  (Wife of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Mr. Virendra  (Son of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms. Parvathy  (Daughter of Mr. E. K. Bharat Bhushan)*
Ms.Siji M G (Wife of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. V K Raman (Father of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Ms. V K Vilasini (Mother of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Harikrishna M Manoj (Son of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Naveen Kumar V R (Brother of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Praveen V R (Brother of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Ms. Geetha V R (Sister of Mr. Manoj Kumar V R)*
Mr. Benny (Husband of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Ms.Rosily Lonappan (Mother of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Mr. Amal Benny (Son of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Ms. Anna Ben (Daughter of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Mr. Biju A L (Brother of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
Mr. Nelson A L (Brother of Mrs. Bindhu AL)*
* No transactions with these related parties
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
380
Related Party transactions during the year: 
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Sitting Fee To Directors: 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.69 
 7.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.69 
 7.58 
Mr.Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 0.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 0.93 
Mr.Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.09 
 1.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.09 
 1.02 
Mr.P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.27 
 1.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.27 
 1.13 
Mr.Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.14 
 1.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.14 
 1.10 
Mr.V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.20 
 0.78 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 0.57 
Ms. Pratima
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.95 
 1.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.95 
 1.07 
Ms. Seemandhini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.74 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.82 
 0.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.82 
 0.12 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
 0.08 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.67 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.67 
 0.04 
Commission Fee To Directors: 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
Mr.Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
Mr.P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
Mr.V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 Mr.Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
Mr.Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
Ms. Pratima Ram
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms.V P Seemanthini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
Incentive
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
Ms. Bindu A.L – CFO 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
Remuneration To Directors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 138.37 
 117.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 138.37 
 117.34 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 121.50 
 106.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 121.50 
 106.88 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.88 
 10.46 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.88 
 10.46 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
381
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Remuneration To Other Kmps
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.54 
 18.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.54 
 18.98 
 Ms. Bindu A.L 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.94 
 14.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.94 
 14.79 
 Mr. Manoj Kumar V R 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.60 
 4.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.60 
 4.20 
Remuneration Paid To Relative Of Kmp
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
Mr. Suhas Nandan 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
 - 
 - 
 1.38 
 1.38 
Rent Waived
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 Manappuram Foundation  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.62 
 11.00 
 Printing of Notices and Bill Book 
 2.57 
 2.86 
 2.57 
 2.86 
 Manappuram Foundation  
 2.57 
 2.86 
 2.57 
 2.86 
CSR Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 389.61 
 444.69 
Payment To
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
Lions Co-Ordination Committee Of India 
Association
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manppuram Group Gratuity Trust(Approved)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 249.18 
 222.92 
Dividend Paid to Promoter
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 983.42 
 810.00 
 209.99 
 173.24 
 - 
 - 
 1,193.40 
 983.24 
Rent Paid 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.37 
 6.98 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.17 
 - 
 - 
 7.55 
 7.15 
Mr. Suhas Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.17 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.17 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.37 
 6.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.37 
 6.98 
Membership Fee Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 0.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 0.88 
Finance Industry Development Council
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.10 
Fedreration of Indian Chambers of Commerce & 
Industry
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.70 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.70 
 0.78 
Advertisement Expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.56 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.56 
Federation Of Indian Chambers Of Commerce & 
Industry(Ficci)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.53 
Masters Games Association
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
Reimbursement Expense Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.80 
Rating Fee Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
Infomerics Valuation and Rating Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
382
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Stationery Expenses Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
Stallion Onebyte Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
Professional Charges
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
Manikandan And Associates
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
 1.64 
 - 
Rent Received 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 1.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 1.73 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 1.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 1.48 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.25 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 0.001 
 0.001 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.001 
 0.001 
Electricity Charge Received 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.51 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.51 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.43 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
Education And Training Services Provided
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.67 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.11 
Maben Nidhi Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.14 
Manappuram Asset Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 0.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 0.26 
Manappuram Chits India Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Manappuram Health Care Ltd
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 0.08 
Education And Training Services Provided in FY 
2022-23 Received in FY 2023-24
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.17 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.43 
Manappuram Health Care Ltd
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.74 
Balance Outstanding As At The Year End:
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Security Deposit 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.39 
 0.39 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.39 
 0.39 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 0.19 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 0.16 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.04 
Amount Receivable From Related Parties
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Education and Training Fee Receivable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.41 
Manappuram Foundation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Manappuram Jewellers Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.11 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
383
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
Maben Nidhi Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 0.14 
Manappuram Asset Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.07 
 - 
Manappuram Chits India Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.04 
Manappuram Health Care Ltd
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 0.08 
Amounts Payable  To Related Parties
Commission Fee To Directors: 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.37 
 145.23 
Mr. V.P.Nandakumar 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
 100.00 
Mr.Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.00 
 11.50 
Mr.P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 3.10 
Mr.V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.03 
 4.70 
 Mr.Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.90 
 5.40 
Mr.Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.90 
 3.90 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.10 
Ms. Pratima Ram
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms.V P Seemanthini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.10 
Ms. Sumitha Nandan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.50 
 5.00 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 1.29 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.78 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 0.26 
Sitting Fee Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.09 
 Mr.Abhijit Sen 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
Mr.Harshan Kollara
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
Mr.P Manomohanan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
Mr.Shailesh J. Mehta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
Mr.V.R. Ramachandran
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
Mr.Balasubrahmanian
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Ms. Pratima
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.02 
Ms. Seemandhini
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
Mr. T.C Suseel Kumar
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
Mr.Edodiyil Kunhiraman Bharat Bhushan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.04 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
384
Particulars 
PARENT (AS PER 
OWNERSHIP OR 
CONTROL)
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATES/ JOINT 
VENTURES
KEY MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
RELATIVES OF KEY 
MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
OTHERS
TOTAL
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
 As at 
31st March, 
2025 
 As at 
31st March, 
2024 
Incentive Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 Ms. Bindu A.L 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.42 
 2.42 
Rating Fee Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
Infomerics Valuation and Rating Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
Stationery Expenses Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stallion Onebyte Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Rent Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
Manappuram Agro Farms Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.72 
 0.48 
Retention Payable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
Manappuram Construction And Consultants 
Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
Note:
a)	
Related parties have been identified on the basis of the declaration received by the management and other records available.
b)	
Loans given to related parties are repayable on demand. These loans carry interest @ 11.15%
c)	
The remuneration to the key managerial personnel does not include the provisions made for gratuity and leave benefits, as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the company as a whole.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
385
Note 48: Fair Value Measurement
48.1 Valuation principles
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or 
most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions , regardless of whether that price is directly 
observable or estimated using a valuation technique. In order to show how fair values have been derived, financial instruments 
are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques as explained in the material accounting policies of the year ended 31 
March 2025.
48.2 Valuation governance
The Group’s  process to determine fair values is part of its periodic financial close process. The Audit Committee exercises the overall 
supervision over the  methodology and models to determine the fair value as part of its overall monitoring of financial close process 
and controls. The responsibility of ongoing measurement resides with business units . Once submitted, fair value estimates are also 
reviewed and challenged by the Risk and Finance functions.
48.3 Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the  fair value hierarchy:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
I. Assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis
Derivative financial instruments
Forward Contracts
 - 
 192.65 
 - 
 192.65 
 - 
 8.33 
 - 
 8.33 
Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps
 - 
 220.35 
 - 
 220.35 
 - 
 17.12 
 - 
 17.12 
Total derivative financial instruments (i)
 - 
 413.00 
 - 
 413.00 
 - 
 25.45 
 - 
 25.45 
Financial assets held for trading 
Equity instruments
 47.15 
 - 
 - 
 47.15 
 0.94 
 - 
 - 
 0.94 
Mutual Funds
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gold ETF
 19.35 
 - 
 - 
 19.35 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Security Reciepts
 -  3,223.08 
 -  3,223.08 
 -  2,407.58 
 -  2,407.58 
Securitised Assets (Pass Through Certificates)
 - 
 78.66 
 - 
 78.66 
 - 
 45.38 
 - 
 45.38 
Government Securities
 -  2,067.40 
 -  2,067.40 
 - 
 1,948.73 
 - 
 1,948.73 
Total Financial assets held for trading  (ii)
70.38
 5,369.14 
 -  5,439.52 
 0.94  4,401.69 
 -  4,402.63 
a. Assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis (i + ii)
 70.38  5,782.14 
 - 5,852.52
 0.94 
 4,427.14 
 - 4,428.08 
b. Assets measured at fair value on a non-
recurring basis
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
c. Total Assets measured at fair value (a+b)
70.38
 5,782.14 
 -  5,852.51 
 0.94 
 4,427.14 
 - 4,428.08 
II. Liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis 
Derivative financial instruments
Forward contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
d. Liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
e. Liabilities measured at fair value on a 
non-recurring basis 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
f.  Total Liabilities measured at fair value (d+e)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
386
48.4 Valuation techniques
Equity instruments
Equity instruments in non-listed entities are initially recognised at transaction price and re-measured (to the extent information 
is available) and valued on a case-by-case and classified as Level 3. The Company uses prices from prior transactions without 
adjustment to arrive at the fair value. Prior transaction represents the price at which same investment was sold in the deal transaction. 
Quoted equity instruments on recognised stock exchange are valued at level 1 heirarchy being the unadjusted quoted price as at 
the reporting date.
Cross Currency Swaps
Interest rate derivatives include interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, basis swaps and interest rate forwards 
(FRAs). The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations 
by estimating future cash flows and discounting them with the appropriate yield curves incorporating funding costs relevant for 
the position. These contracts are generally Level 2 unless adjustments to yield curves or credit spreads are based on significant 
non-observable inputs, in which case, they are Level 3.
Interest rate derivatives
Interest rate derivatives include interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, basis swaps and interest rate forwards 
(FRAs). The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations 
by estimating future cash flows and discounting them with the appropriate yield curves incorporating funding costs relevant for 
the position. These contracts are generally Level 2 unless adjustments to yield curves or credit spreads are based on significant 
non-observable inputs, in which case, they are Level 3.
Foreign exchange contracts
Foreign exchange contracts include open spot contracts, foreign exchange forward and swap contracts and over the-counter foreign 
exchange options. These instruments are valued by either observable foreign exchange rates, observable or calculated forward points 
and option valuation models. With the exception of contracts where a directly observable rate is available which are disclosed as 
Level 1, the Group classifies foreign exchange contracts as Level 2 financial instruments when no unobservable inputs are used for 
their valuation or the unobservable inputs used are not significant to the measurement (as a whole).
Movements in Level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
There are no Level 3 financial assets and liabilities which are recorded at fair value.
For fair value of financial instruments not measured at fair value - 
Particulars
Level
Carrying Value
Fair Value
Mar-25
Mar-24
Mar-25
Mar-24
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
2
30,826.88
25,417.15
30,826.88
25,417.15
Bank Balance other than above
2
7,250.03
6,395.35
7,250.03
6,395.35
Loans
3
4,22,515.55
4,09,475.67
4,22,515.55
4,09,475.67
Investments
2
3,130.34
3,070.49
3,130.34
3,070.49
Investments
3
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.05
Other Financial assets
2
5,521.90
4,372.73
5,521.90
4,372.73
Other Financial assets
3
12.95
22.29
12.95
22.29
Total Financial Assets
4,69,257.70
4,48,753.73
4,69,257.70
4,48,753.73
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
387
Particulars
Level
Carrying Value
Fair Value
Mar-25
Mar-24
Mar-25
Mar-24
Financial Liabilities
Payables
2
1,201.30
1,218.78
1,201.30
1,218.78
Debt Securities
2
62,184.73
51,800.04
62,184.73
51,800.04
Borrowings (other than debt security)
2
2,87,179.89
2,79,869.31
2,87,179.89
2,79,869.31
Deposits
2
-
0.70
-
0.70
Subordinated Liabilities
2
4,848.77
4,864.63
4,848.77
4,864.63
Other Financial Liabilities
2
4,043.22
4,414.97
4,043.22
4,414.97
Lease Liabilities
2
6,556.42
6,664.18
6,556.42
6,664.18
Total Financial Liabilities
3,66,014.33
3,48,832.61
3,66,014.33
3,48,832.61
The financial asset above does not include investment in subsidiary, which is measured at cost in accordance with Ind AS 27.
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current 
liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.  
Valuation methodologies of financial instruments not measured at fair value
Below are the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for the above financial instruments which are not 
recorded and measured at fair value in the financial statements. These fair values were calculated for disclosure purposes only.
Short-term financial assets and liabilities
For financial assets and financial liabilities that have a short-term maturity (less than twelve months), the carrying amounts, which 
are net of impairment, are a reasonable approximation of their fair value. Such instruments include: cash and balances, balances 
other than cash and cash equivalents, trade payables and other financial liabilities without a specific maturity. Such amounts have 
been classified as Level 2 on the basis that no adjustments have been made to the balances in the balance sheet.
Loans and advances to customers
Fair value of Loans estimated using a discounted cash flow model on contractual cash flows using actual/estimated yields.
Debt and Borrowings
The floating rate loans are fair valued on the basis of MCLR+spread.  For fixed rate loans, the carrying values are a reasonable 
approximation of their fair value.
Note 49: Risk Management
Risk is an integral part of the Group’s business and sound risk management is critical to the success. As a financial institution, the 
Group is exposed to risks that are particular to its lending and the environment within which it operates and primarily includes 
Credit, Liquidity, Market and Operational Risks. Group’s goal in risk management is to ensure that it understands measures and 
monitors the various risks that arise and the organization adheres strictly to the policies and procedures which are established to 
address these risks. The Group has a risk management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities. 
The Board of Directors of the Group are responsible for the overall risk management approach, approving risk management strategies 
and principles. Risk Management Committee of the Board reviews credit, operations and market risks faced by MAFIL periodically. 
Group has appointed a Chief Credit Officer who reports to MD & CEO and presenting risk related matters to Risk Management 
Committee and the Board.
The Group has implemented comprehensive policies and procedures to assess, monitor and manage risk throughout the Group. 
The risk management process is continuously reviewed, improved and adapted in the changing risk scenario and the agility of the risk 
management process is monitored and reviewed for its appropriateness in the changing risk landscape. The process of continuous 
evaluation of risks includes taking stock of the risk landscape on an event-driven basis.
The Group has an elaborate process for risk management. Major risks identified by the businesses and functions are systematically 
addressed through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
388
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
As the Group predominantly lend against gold jewellery, which are liquid securities, its credit risks are comparatively lower. Its other 
verticals, Micro Finance, Vehicle Finance, Micro loans etc. have significant credit risk.
Appraisal Risk: The borrowers are awarded risk grades and only eligible borrowers are financed. Besides continuous training of 
employees through digital media, Credit officers are imparted on the job and class room training on a continuous basis. Credit appraisal 
processes are being reviewed regularly by Credit Monitoring teams and credit auditors and more risk filters are added whenever 
necessary.
Collection risk: As the gold ornaments are liquid, collection in gold portfolio attaches minimal risks. We have developed a team of 
trained Relationship Managers and sales staff for continuous engagement with the borrowers under verticals like Micro Finance, 
Vehicle Finance, Housing loans, Micro loans etc. to ensure timely payment of their dues. Collection efficiency of verticals are being 
monitored closely by the Senior Management.
Concentration risk: As on 31 March 2025, our gold loan portfolio is 62.43% of the total AUM (Asset Under Management). Gold loans 
are granted against liquid securities for short period which substantially insulates from credit risk and liquidity risk. We have already 
diversified into Home Finance, Commercial Vehicles, Microfinance and budget to grow the new verticals so as to contain our exposure 
to gold to 50% of the total AUM in ten years.
Our geographical presence is largely in the southern India. We are now giving thrust for opening new branches in north and north 
eastern states which have high growth potentials. A geographical exposure limit will be fixed when operations of the new branches 
are stabilised. 
The credit risk management policy of the Group seeks to have following controls and key metrics that allows credit risks to be 
identified, assessed, monitored and reported in a timely and efficient manner in compliance with regulatory requirements.
-	
Standardize the process of identifying new risks and designing appropriate controls for these risks
-	
Maintain an appropriate credit administration and loan review system
-	
Establish metrics for portfolio monitoring
-	
Minimize losses due to defaults or untimely payments by borrowers
-	
Design appropriate credit risk mitigation techniques
In order to mitigate the impact of credit risk in the future profitability, the Group makes reserves basis the expected credit loss (ECL) 
model for the outstanding loans as balance sheet date.
The below discussion describes the Group’s approach for assessing impairment as stated in the Material accounting policies.
The Group considers a financial instrument defaulted and therefore Stage 3 (credit impaired) for ECL calculations in all cases when 
the borrower becomes 90 days past due on its contractual payments.
As a part of a qualitative assessment of whether a customer is in default, the Group also considers a variety of instances that may 
indicate unlikeness to pay. When such events occur, the Group carefully considers whether the event should result in treating the 
customer as defaulted and therefore assessed as Stage 3 for ECL calculations on whether Stage 2 is appropriate.
Exposure at Default (EAD)
The outstanding balance at the reporting date (adjusted for subsequent realisations in the case of Gold Loan), is considered as EAD by 
the Group. Considering that the PD determined above factors in amount at default, there is no separate requirement to estimate EAD.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
389
The Group uses historical information where available to determine PD. Considering the different products and schemes, the Group 
has bifurcated its loan portfolio into various pools. For certain pools where historical information is available, the PD is calculated using 
Incremental NPA approach considering fresh slippage of past 6 years. For those pools where historical information is not available, 
the PD default rates as stated by external reporting agencies is considered.
While estimating the expected credit loss, the Group reviews macro-economic developments occurring in the economy and the market 
it operates in. Forward looking information is considered in addition to historical default rates to assess the probability of default for 
Stage 1 and Stage 2 of Loan contracts since it’s initial recognition and its measurement of ECL. Accordingly, the Group has assessed 
that the macro-economic variables that may impact credit risk are GDP growth, Interest and Inflation rates, Unemployment rates etc. 
Post management overlay, the PD percentages are mentioned below:
A)	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Pools
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage I
Stage II*
Stage III
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
1) 	
Gold Loan-Normal risk**
11.18%
11.18%
100.00%
12.97%
12.97%
100.00%
2) 	
Vehicle Loan
	
CV
6.51%
16.78%
100.00%
6.06%
14.63%
100.00%
	
BUS
9.08%
19.38%
100.00%
8.92%
17.02%
100.00%
	
FE
5.52%
18.12%
100.00%
3.79%
13.89%
100.00%
	
CAR/AUTO
4.59%
13.65%
100.00%
4.10%
11.12%
100.00%
	
TW
8.68%
14.23%
100.00%
7.55%
12.31%
100.00%
3)	
SME Loan
6.47%
6.76%
100.00%
5.68%
14.48%
100.00%
4)	
Other verticals
5.20%
20.68%
100.00%
3.50%
15.83%
100.00%
5)	
Other verticals 
(unsecured)
5.20%
20.68%
100.00%
3.50%
15.83%
100.00%
6)	
Onlending, Corporate Finance and Project and Industrial Finance Loan, external ratings or internal evaluation with a management 
overlay for each customer.
7)	
Personal Loans and other verticals, external ratings or internal evaluation with a management overlay for each customer 
industry segment.
* Excluding restructured loans, where in Vehicle loan Stage II restructured loans for CV -80% ,BUS -75% and CAR - 60% as at March 31, 2024. 	
** Excludes portfolio where PD has been considered at 100%
In case of Gold loans, incremental NPA is considered after taking into account auctions during the year since such cases are auctioned 
and total dues are recovered even before the account turns NPA.
B)	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Pools
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
1) 	
Micro Finance Loans
3.85%
28.36%
100.00%
2.01%
12.42%
100.00%
2) 	
MSME loans
13.38%
27.70%
100.00%
0.40%
0.40%
10.00%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
390
C)	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Pools
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
1)	
Construction
1.71%
11.38%
100.00%
1.26%
12.20%
100.00%
2)	
Ready to use House
2.88%
18.52%
100.00%
2.71%
21.03%
100.00%
3)	
Home Improvement
2.29%
14.97%
100.00%
1.09%
7.92%
100.00%
4)	
Home Extension
2.11%
13.88%
100.00%
1.45%
15.86%
100.00%
5)	
Balance Transfer & Top-Up
3.01%
19.24%
100.00%
2.79%
21.50%
100.00%
6)	
LAP
2.22%
14.56%
100.00%
1.58%
14.12%
100.00%
* Average PD of schemes
Loss Given Default
The Group determines its recovery rates by analysing the recovery trends over different periods of time after a loan has defaulted. 
Based on its analysis of historical trends, homogenous nature of the loans etc, the Group has assessed that significant recoveries 
happen in the year in which default has occurred. Recoveries from all the phases like normal collections, auction collections, 
repossession sale as well as expected realization from collateral are considered while computing the LGD rates for each loan portfolio. 
For different stages such as stage 1,stage 2 & stage 3 portfolios, we are applying same LGD rate except in case of loss assets and 
unsecured loans in stage 3 which is at 100%.
A)	
Manappuram Finance Limited
Pools
Mar-25
Mar-24
1) 	
Gold Loan*
3.76%
2.94%
2) 	
Vehicle Loan
	
CV
13.22%
15.79%
	
BUS
13.77%
16.22%
	
FE
20.91%
13.73%
	
CAR/AUTO
17.11%
9.98%
	
TW
20.05%
22.65%
3) 	
SME Loan
26.55%
27.18%
4)	
Onlending
60%
60%
5)	
Corporate Finance
100%
100%
6)	
Project Industry Finance (PIF)
50%
50%
7)	
Other Verticals
2.39%
7.22%
8)	
Other Verticals (unsecured)
82.94%
73.62%
*In case of Gold Loan  the Loan To Value(LTV), at the time of disbursement  is below 75% (As per the RBI norms) and the remaining  value (25%) of asset 
held by the company acts as a margin of safety , protecting the company  against volatility in asset price.LTV is one of the factor for gradation of risk. Also 
it reflects in the fixing of interest rates of each type of loans/ schemes. Normally fixing higher interest rate for loans having higher LTV% and vice versa.
B)	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Pools
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
1) 	
Micro Finance Loans
66.70%
66.70%
66.70%
63.50%
63.50%
63.50%
2) 	
SME loans
0.00%
0.00%
100.00%
0.00%
0.00%
100.00%
3) 	
MSME loans
10.53%
10.53%
10.53%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
391
C)	
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Portfolio*
Mar-25
Mar-24
1)	
Construction
16.66%
17.08%
2)	
Ready to use House
18.97%
17.08%
3)	
Home Improvement
20.01%
17.08%
4)	
Home Extension
15.12%
17.08%
5)	
Balance Transfer & Top-Up
17.08%
17.08%
6)	
LAP Above 10 lakhs
12.43%
17.08%
7)	
LAP- Upto 10 Lakhs
13.59%
17.08%
*From the current year onwards, LGD for ECL computation is determined on a scheme-wise basis.
LGD Rates have been computed internally based on the discounted recoveries in NPA accounts that are closed/ written off/ 
repossessed and upgraded during the year. LGD rates for SME, Onlending and other loans is considered based on proxy FIRB rates 
for secured loans.
In estimating LGD, the Group reviews macro-economic developments taking place in the economy. Based on internal evaluation, 
Group has provided a management overlay in LGD computed for Vehicle and SME portfolios.
The Group has applied management overlays to the ECL Model to consider the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the provision. 
The adjustment to the probability of default has been assessed considering the likelihood of increased credit risk and consequential 
default due to the pandemic. The impact on collateral values is also assessed for determination of adjustment to the loss given 
default and reasonable haircuts are applied wherever necessary. Days past due has been computed after excluding the moratorium 
as specified in various RBI circulars, for the aforesaid classification into Stage I, Stage II and Stage III loans.
As per the RBI guidelines , the ECL policy has been approved by Audit Committee and the Board. Modifications to the ECL model, if 
any, is approved by the Board. As part of the management overlays, as per the approved ECL policy, the management has adjusted 
the underlying PD as mentioned above  and in case of corporate loan by downgrading the ratings to one level lower) and LGD as 
computed by ECL Model as mentioned above depending on the nature of the portfolio/borrower, the management’s estimate of the 
future stress and risk and available market information. Refer note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
Asset & Liability management
Disclosures as required in Annex VII of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 
October 19, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 
2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Asset and Liability Management (ALM) is defined as the practice of managing risks arising due to mismatches in the asset and liabilities. 
Group’s funding consists of both long term as well as short term sources with different maturity patterns and varying interest rates. 
On the other hand, the asset book also comprises of loans of different duration and interest rates. Maturity mismatches are therefore 
common and has an impact on the liquidity and profitability of the group. It is necessary for Group to monitor and manage the assets 
and liabilities in such a manner to minimize mismatches and keep them within reasonable limits.
The objective of this policy is to create an institutional mechanism to compute and monitor periodically the maturity pattern of the 
various liabilities and assets of Group to (a) ascertain in percentage terms the nature and extent of mismatch in different maturity 
buckets, especially the 1-30/31days bucket, which would indicate the structural liquidity (b) the extent and nature of cumulative 
mismatch in different buckets indicative of short term dynamic liquidity and (c) the residual maturity pattern of repricing of assets and 
liabilities which would show the likely impact of movement of interest rate in either direction on profitability. This policy will guide 
the ALM system in Group.
The scope of ALM function can be described as follows:
-	
Liquidity risk management
-	
Management of market risks
-	
Others
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
392
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may not meet its financial obligations. Liquidity risk arises due to the unavailability 
of adequate funds at an appropriate cost or tenure. The objective of liquidity risk management, is to maintain sufficient liquidity 
and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Group consistently generates sufficient cash flows from 
operating and financial activities to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due. Our resource mobilisation team sources 
funds from multiple sources, including from banks, financial institutions and capital markets to maintain a healthy mix of sources. 
The resource mobilisation team is responsible for diversifying fund raising sources, managing interest rate risks and maintaining 
a strong relationship with banks, financial institutions, mutual funds, insurance companies, other domestic and foreign financial 
institutions and rating agencies to ensure the liquidity risk is well addressed.
The table below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial assets and liabilities as on:-
Maturity pattern of assets and liabilities as on 31 March 2025:
Particulars
 0 to 7 
days 
 8 to 14 
days 
 Over 14 
days to one 
month 
 Over one 
month to 
2 months 
 Over 2 
months to 
3 months 
 Over 3 
Months upto 
6 months 
 Over 6 
Months 
upto 1 year 
 Over 1 
year upto 
3 years 
 Over 3 
years upto 
5 years 
 Over 5 
years 
 Total 
Borrowings
2,098.64
3,874.98
7,896.83
27,132.29
24,610.62
40,208.18
64,011.46 72,008.32
18,523.76
4,312.24 2,64,677.34
Foreign Currency 
Term Loan
-
-
-
-
-
-
518.38
22,410.49
2,496.00
-
25,424.86
Debt Security
-
-
993.09
798.26
1,967.68
6,706.29
4,307.75
9,531.62
16,670.68 20,960.68
61,936.04
Subordinated Debts
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Interest Payable
3.65
59.15
16.19
147.95
1.77
82.30
74.59
-
-
-
385.58
Securitisation
-
-
223.36
306.23
108.30
251.57
373.43
526.69
-
-
1,789.58
Advances
3,661.99
3,214.48
9,084.86
28,341.41
19,819.19
42,802.45
2,24,142.58 58,065.21 24,858.95
8,507.69 4,22,498.81
Investments
2,069.66
2.26
5.17
39.88
1,616.22
29.71
1,564.53
325.85
235.82
1,988.24
7,877.34
Maturity pattern of assets and liabilities as on 31 March 2024:
Particulars
 0 to 7 
days 
 8 to 14 
days 
 Over 14 
days to one 
month 
 Over one 
month to 2 
months 
 Over 2 
months to 
3 months 
 Over 3 
Months upto 
6 months 
 Over 6 
Months 
upto 1 year 
 Over 1 
year upto 
3 years 
 Over 3 
years upto 
5 years 
 Over 5 
years 
 Total 
Borrowings
2,337.49
3,247.84
4,237.89
18,419.32
46,230.95
44,347.61
50,882.90
74,468.08
16,894.92
3,112.39 2,64,179.38
Foreign Currency 
Term Loan
-
-
-
-
909.10
909.10
2,234.10
5,045.93
2,972.08
-
12,070.31
Debt Security
2.09
-
1,057.72
971.90
8,357.10
5,429.71
8,396.44
12,502.71
3,000.00
12,082.38
51,800.04
Subordinated Debts
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Securitisation
-
-
390.91
417.43
426.28
889.11
1,147.53
348.34
-
-
3,619.59
Advances
1,935.31
1,928.09
6,362.25
28,271.46
19,693.61
52,151.16
1,98,789.51
71,433.15 20,854.56
8,056.57 4,09,475.67
Investments
1,948.73
-
-
30.90
23.49
-
59.97
3,196.02
120.00
1,884.24
7,263.36
*Amount represents net balance after the adjustments on account of Indian Accounting Standards.
Market Risk
Market Risk is the risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
factor. Such changes in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the interest rates, credit, liquidity, and other 
market changes. The Group is exposed to three types of market risk as follows:
Foreign Exchange Risk (Forex Risk)
Forex risk is a risk that exists when a financial transaction is denominated in a currency other than the domestic currency of the 
Group. Any appreciation /depreciation of the base currency or the depreciation/appreciation of the denominated currency will affect 
the cash flows emanating from that transaction. Group has fully hedged the forex risk by derivative instruments.  
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
393
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
We are subject to interest rate risk, principally because we lend to clients at fixed interest rates and for periods that may differ from 
our funding sources, while our borrowings are at both fixed and variable interest rates for different periods.  We assess and manage 
our interest rate risk by managing our assets and liabilities. Our Asset Liability Management Committee evaluates asset liability 
management, and ensures that all significant mismatches, if any, are being managed appropriately.
The Group has Board Approved Asset Liability Management (ALM) policy for managing interest rate risk and policy for determining 
the interest rate to be charged on the loans given.
Price Risk
The Group’s exposure to price risk is not material. The drop in gold prices is unlikely to have a significant impact on asset quality of 
the Group since the disbursement LTV is below 75%  and  average portfolio LTV as on the reporting period was 62% to 65% only. 
However the sustained decrease in market price may cause for decrease in the size of our Gold Loan Portfolio and the interest income. 
Management monitors the gold prices and other loans on regular basis.
Operational and business risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to operate 
effectively, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss. The Group 
cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but it endeavours to manage these risks through a control framework and by 
monitoring and responding to potential risks. Controls include effective segregation of duties, access, authorisation and reconciliation 
procedures, staff education and assessment processes, such as the use of internal audit. Risk Management Committee comprising 
representatives of the Senior Management, reviews matters relating to operational and business risk, including corrective and 
remedial actions as regards people and processes.
Note 50: Details of Financial Assets sold to Securitisation Company
Disclosure for securitisation as per RBI guidelines on Securitisation RBI/DOR/2021-22/85 DOR.STR 
REC.53/21.04.177/2021-22 dated September 24, 2021 and updated on December 05, 2022 the details of 
securitisation are given below:
Manappuram Finance Limited
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
Total number of loan assets securitized during the year
 - 
 2,684 
Book value of loan assets securitized during the year
 - 
 1,091.35 
Sale consideration received during the year
 - 
 982.22 
Vehicle Loans Subordinated as Credit Enhancement on Assets Derecognised
 - 
 - 
Gain / (loss) on the securitization transaction recognised in P&L
 - 
 - 
Gain / (loss) on the securitization transactions deferred
 - 
 - 
Quantum of Credit Enhancement provided on the transactions in the form of 
deposits
 - 
 109.14 
Quantum of Credit Enhancement as at year end
 - 
 109.14 
Interest spread Recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the Year
 - 
9.34%
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
394
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
(i)	
No of SPVs sponsored by the NBFC for securitisation transactions
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
 33 
 37 
	
b.	
Through PTC
 4 
 6 
Total 
 37 
 43 
(ii)	
Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPVs Sponsored
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
 5,570.60 
 12,177.51 
	
b. 	
Through Pass through Certificates
 2,207.04 
 4,203.31 
Total
 7,777.64 
 16,380.83 
(iii)	
Total amount of exposures retained by the NBFC to comply with MRR as on 
the date of Balance sheet
 - 
 - 
	
a)	
Off-balance sheet exposures
	
	
First loss
	
	
a.	
Direct Assignment 
 - 
 - 
	
	
b.	
Pass through Certificates
-
-
	
	
-	
Others
-
-
	
b)	
On-balance sheet exposures 
	
	
-	
First loss
	
	
	
a.	
Direct Assignment 
 620.39 
 1,352.39 
	
	
	
b.	
Pass through Certificates
 - 
 - 
	
	
-	
Others
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions Other than MRR
 - 
 - 
	
a)	
Off-balance sheet exposures
 - 
 - 
	
	
i)	
Exposure to own securitizations
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
First loss
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
a)	
Direct Assignment
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
b)	
Pass Through certificates
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
Loss
 - 
 - 
	
	
ii)	
Exposure to third party securitisations
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
First loss
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
Others
 - 
 - 
	
b)	
On-balance sheet exposures
 - 
 - 
	
	
i)	
Exposure to own securitisations
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
First loss
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
Others
 - 
 - 
	
	
ii)	
Exposure to third party securitisations
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
First loss
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
Others
 - 
 - 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
395
Details of Financial Assets sold to Securitisation Company 
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
Total number of loan assets securitized during the year
1,60,053
7,22,255
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment (no. of accounts)
1,11,168.00
5,78,232.00
	
b. 	
Through PTC (no. of accounts)
48,885.00
1,44,023.00
Book value of loan assets securitized during the year
6,758.03
26,578.28
  	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
4,546.81
21,237.21
	
b.	
Through PTC
2,211.23
5,341.07
Sale consideration received during the year
6,049.17
23,829.91
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
4,092.13
19,113.48
  	
b.	
Through PTC
1,957.05
4,716.43
MFI Loans Subordinated as Credit Enhancement on Assets Derecognised
708.86
2,748.36
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
454.68
2,123.72
	
b.	
Through PTC
254.18
624.64
Gain / (loss) on the securitization transaction recognised in P&L
914.05
1,425.00
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
914.05
1,425.00
	
b.	
Through PTC
-
-
Gain / (loss) on the securitization transactions deferred
-
-
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
-
-
	
b. 	
Through PTC
-
-
Quantum of Credit Enhancement provided on the transactions in the form of 
deposits
149.28
201.84
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
-
-
	
b. 	
Through PTC
149.28
201.84
Quantum of Credit Enhancement as at year end
891.42
2,771.96
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
454.68
2,123.72
	
b. 	
Through PTC
436.74
648.24
Interest spread Recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the Year
914.05
1,425.00
	
a.	
Through Direct assignment
914.05
1,425.00
	
b. 	
Through PTC
-
-
Details of assignment transactions
Disclosure for direct assignment as per RBI guidelines on Securitisation RBI/DOR/2021-22/86 DOR.STR.
REC.51/21.04.048/2021-22 dated September 24, 2021 and updated on December 28, 2023 the details of Transfer 
of Loan Exposure are given below:
Manappuram Finance Limited
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
(i)	
Number of Accounts
 10,101 
 10,079 
(ii)	
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts sold
 7,567.88 
 6,678.75 
(iii)	
Aggregate consideration
 6,811.09 
 6,010.88 
(iv)	 Aggregate consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred in earlier 
years
 -  
 - 
(v)	
Aggregate gain / loss over net book value
 465.01 
 576.21 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
396
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
(i)	
Number of Accounts
111,168
578,232
(ii)	
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts sold
4,546.81
21,020.19
(iii)	
Aggregate consideration
4,092.13
19,113.48
(iv)	 Aggregate consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred in earlier 
years
-
-
(v)	
Credit Enhancement as at the end of the year
454.68
2,123.72
(vi)	  Aggregate gain / loss over net book value ( As Per Ind AS)
914.05
1,425.00
Details of stressed loans transferred to ARC
Manappuram Home Finance Limited
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
To ARCs
To ARCs
No. of accounts
969
 482 
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
 487.03 
 332.90 
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred
 95.97 
 141.15 
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
 340.09 
 223.38 
Aggregate Consideration
 389.60 
 249.68 
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years
 - 
 - 
Aggregate gain/(loss) over net book value
 (97.43)
 (83.23)
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited
Particulars
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
(i)	
No of Accounts
88,172
1,24,545
(ii)	
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
2,000.36
2,952.59
(iii)	
Weighted average residual tenure of the loans transferred (Months)
11.80
9.49
(iv)	 Net book value of loans transferred (At the time of transfer)
1,076.18
1,636.05
(v)	
Aggregate consideration
850.00
1,464.50
(vi)	 Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in earlier 
years
-
-
(vii)	 Investment in  Security Reciepts (SR)
739.00
1,266.91
Note 51: Segment reporting
Particulars
 Year Ended 
 31st March, 2025 
 31st March, 2024 
1
Segment revenue
Gold loan and others
73,064.93
61,881.46
Microfinance
27,343.90
27,319.43
Total Segment revenue
1,00,408.83
89,200.89
2
Segment results (Profit before tax)
Gold loan and others
24,766.36
23,378.81
Microfinance
(8,110.05)
6,216.37
Total Segment results
16,656.31
29,595.18
3
Segment assets
Gold loan and others
4,04,367.48
3,42,374.23
Microfinance
87,679.45
1,25,104.79
Total Segment assets
4,92,046.93
4,67,479.02
4
Segment liabilities
Gold loan and others
2,95,026.42
2,48,095.43
Microfinance
72,531.86
1,03,613.80
Total Segment liabilities
3,67,558.28
3,51,709.23
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
397
Disclosures as required in Annex VII of RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-
24 dated October 19, 2023 ‘Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, as amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Note 52: Exposure
As at 31 March 2025, the Group has recognised net Market to Market (MTM) Gain of ` 463.94 Mn (31 March 2024 `53.09 Mn) 
relating to derivative contracts entered to hedge the foreign currency risk of future interest payment on fixed rate foreign currency 
denominated bond and foreign currency term loan, repayment of fixed rate foreign currency denominated bond and loans designated 
as cash flow hedges, in Hedging Reserve Account as part of the Shareholders’ funds. Refer to Note no. 19  ‘ Derivative Financial 
Instruments’.
Details of outstanding derivative contracts as at the year end.
Type of Derivatives
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No of contracts
Value (USD)/EURO
No of contracts
Value (USD)/EURO
Forward Contracts entered into hedge 
the currency risk of future interest 
payments
 8 
36,24,60,104
5
4,38,47,823
Cross currency with interest rate 
(USD)
 1 
90,00,000
1
1,20,00,000
Currency Swaps
 6 
29,70,00,000
3
10,00,00,000
Type of Derivatives
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No of contracts
Value ` In million
No of contracts
Value ` In million
Forward Contracts entered into hedge 
the currency risk of future interest 
payments (in USD)
 8 
 30,278.10 
 5 
 3,657.13 
Cross currency with interest rate 
(USD)
 1 
 770.23 
 1 
 1,000.49 
Currency Swaps
 6 
 25,246.58 
 3 
  8,340.50 
Disclosure required as per RBI
Forward rate agreement / Interest rate swap
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i)	
The notional principal of swap agreements
 26,016.81 
 9,340.99 
ii)	
The notional principal of forward rate agreements
 30,278.10 
 3,657.13 
iii)	
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfil their 
obligations under the agreements.
 111.82 
 135.67 
iv)	
Collateral required by the NBFC upon entering into swaps
 3,750.00 
 2,600.00 
v) 	
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swap
 - 
 - 
vi) 	 The fair value of the swap agreements 
 220.35 
 17.12 
vii) 	 The fair value of the forward rate agreements
 192.65 
 8.33 
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
398
Disclosure required as per RBI
Exchange Traded interest rate (IR) derivatives : NIL
Disclosures on risk exposure of derivatives
Qualitative disclosures
The Company has a Board approved policy in dealing with derivative transactions. Derivative transaction consists of hedging of foreign 
exchange transactions, which includes interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options and forwards. The Company undertakes 
forward contracts for hedging on-balance sheet assets and liabilities. Such outstanding derivative transactions are accounted on 
accrual basis over the life of the underlying instrument. The Finance Resource Committee and Risk Management Committee closely 
monitors such transactions and reviews the risks involved.
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Swaps
Forward 
Agreements
Swaps
Forward 
Agreements
i)	
Derivatives  
(Notional principal amount)
	
For Hedging
 26,016.81 
 30,278.10 
 9,340.99 
 3,657.13 
ii)	
Marked to Market Positions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
a)	
Asset (+)
 220.35 
 192.65 
 17.12 
 8.33 
	
b)	
Liability (-)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii)	
Credit Exposure
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Unhedged Exposure
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note 53:Disclosure as per amended Schedule III to the Companies Act,2013
Note 53A: Disclosure on the following matters required under Schedule III as amended not being or applicable in 
case of the company, same are not covered such as
a)	
No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Group for holding any Benami property under the Benami 
Property (Prohibition) Act ,1988 (45 of 1988)and the rules made thereunder.
b)	
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
c)	
No registration or satisfaction of charges are pending to be filed with ROC except for few instances where delay was not 
beyond 30 days.
d)	
The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
e)	
There are no transactions which have not been recorded in the books.
f)	
The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
Note 53B:Utilisation of Borrowed funds or share premium
(i)	
No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies),including foreign entities(“Intermediaries”), with the 
understanding,whether recorded in writing or otherwise,that the Intermediary shall,whether, directly or indirectly lend to or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(ii)	
No funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies),including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding,whether recorded in writing or otherwise,that the Company shall,whether, directly or indirectly lend 
to or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party(“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
399
Note 53C:Relationship with struck off companies
The Group has not entered in to any transactions during the year with the companies struck off under section 248 of Companies 
Act, 2013.
Note 54D: Breaches in terms of covenants in respect of loans availed by the NBFC or debt securities issued by the NBFC including 
incidence/s of default.
There were instances of breaches of covenant in respect of loan availed or debt securities issued by two subsidiaries namely Asirvad 
Micro Finance Limited and Manappuram Home Finance Limited during the financial year ended March 31,2025 and March 31, 2024.
Note 54. Disclosure for Loans to Directors, Senior Officers and Relatives of Directors as required as per Annex XI of 
RBI notification - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106 DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated October 19, 2023 ‘Master 
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023’, as 
amended from time to time to the extent applicable.
Particulars
As at 
31-03-2025
% of total loans 
and advances 
in the nature of 
loans
As at 
31-03-2024
% of total loans 
and advances 
in the nature of 
loans
Directors and their relatives
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Entities associated with directors and their relatives
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
KMPs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Senior Officers and their relatives
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
During the year the Group has not granted any loans or advances to its Directors, Senior Officers and Relatives of Directors except 
as disclosed in the standalone financial statements of the Holding Company.
Note 55:Fraud
i)	
Instances of fraud for the year ended March 31, 2025
Nature of fraud
No. Of Cases
Amount of Fraud
Recovery
Fraud Committed by employees
557
 202.88 
 49.78 
Fraud Committed by customers and outsiders
110
 462.04 
 47.21 
667
664.92
96.99
Instances of fraud for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Nature of fraud
No. Of Cases
Amount of Fraud
Recovery
Fraud Committed by employees
197
 406.95 
 142.38 
Fraud Committed by customers and outsiders
91
 27.28 
 8.31 
288
 434.23 
 150.69 
ii)	
On July 26, 2024, the Company was informed by its Subsidiary, namely Manappuram Comptech and Consultants Ltd 
(“MACOM”), providing IT Support Services to the Company, of instances of embezzlement of funds of the Company to the 
extent of approximately `197.77 millions through unauthorised access. The management of MACOM appointed an independent 
consultant to carry out an investigation, who concluded its investigation and confirmed through its report dated October 19, 
2024 that no incremental instances of embezzlement of funds were noted by them and the assessed loss remains same to the 
extent of `197.77 millions as determined during the preliminary findings. Considering that an employee of MACOM was involved 
in the embezzlement of funds, the Company has submitted a recovery plan to MACOM for `197.77 millions, which had been 
approved by  the Board of Directors of MACOM in its meeting held on November 1, 2024 after considering the financial position 
of MACOM and its income and other relevant aspects, which will facilitate the recovery of the dues over a period of 4 years, for 
which the Company has entered into a settlement agreement dated November 5, 2024 with MACOM.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
400
Note 56: Goodwill on consolidation
Goodwill on consolidation represents the excess purchase consideration paid over value of net assets of acquired subsidiaries on the 
date of such acquisition. Such goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently, if there are indicators for impairment. 
The Management does not foresee any risk of impairment on the carrying value of goodwill as at 31 March 2025.
Note 57:  Disclosure on modified opinion,If any,expressed by auditors,its impact on various financial items and 
views of management on audit qualifications
The auditors have expressed an unmodified opinion on the consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial years 
ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Note 58: Disclosure of penalties imposed and Regulatory Action by RBI and other regulators
i)	
Manappuram Finance Limited.	
	
a)	
Imposed by BSE and NSE during the year ended March 31 2025 is ` 3,11,520/- and during the year ended March 31 2024 
is `34,220/-.	
	
b)	
Penalty amounted to ` 61,50,000/- have been imposed by RBI during the year ended March 31,2025 and during the year 
ended  March 31,2024 is `62,78,000/-.	
ii)	
(a)	
Asirvad Micro Finance Limited-Penalties
Regulator
Reason
Amount 
(in Rupees)
RBI
Regulatory Non Compliance
 6,20,000 
iii)	
(b)	
 Asirvad Micro Finance Limited -Regulatory Action
	
	
On October 17, 2024, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), under section 45L(1)(b) of the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934, imposed 
supervisory restrictions on Asirvad Micro Finance Limited, a subsidiary company, based on certain concerns observed by 
them during the onsite inspection at the Company with reference to financial position as on March 31, 2024.
	
	
Consequently, RBI directed the subsidiary company to cease and desist from sanction or disbursal of loans with effective 
from October 21, 2024. However, the company is permitted to continue servicing its existing customers and carry out 
collection and recovery processes in accordance with the extent regulatory guidelines.
	
	
The Board of Directors of the subsidiary company has thoroughly reviewed the implications of these instructions and 
formed a team to implement corrective actions and revise policies and procedures as needed. Management of the 
subsidiary company is confident that these actions will address and resolve all issues raised by the RBI. The subsidiary 
company remains committed to adhering to the highest standards of compliance with RBI regulations, in both letter and 
spirit. The Group  has conducted a thorough  assessment  of its status as a going concern and does not visualise any 
challenges :
	
	
1.	
The subsidiary company has adequate funds to support its operational expenses and repayment obligations for the 
next 12 (twelve) months
	
	
2.	
Cost Control: Identified and in the process of implementing Cost control measures, including the reduction of major 
discretionary expenditures.
	
	
These actions will ensure that the subsidiary company’s projected cash flow over the next 12 (twelve) months will be 
adequate to meet its financial obligations, maintaining robust capital adequacy and to gradually restore its financial 
resilience. The Group  is confident of resolving all issues raised by the RBI and has prepared the financial results of the 
subsidiary company on a going concern basis. The business restrictions that were imposed by RBI vide their order dated 
October 17, 2024 on Asirvad Micro Finance Limited, a subsidiary, have been lifted vide their order dated January 08, 2025.
Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the Year ended 31st March, 2025	
(All amounts are in millions, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
401
Note 59: Disclosure on Investor Education and Protection Fund
During the year ended 31 March 2025, the Group has transferred requisite amount representing unclaimed dividends and unpaid 
NCD to the Investor Education and Protection Fund, in accordance with the provisions of Section 124(5) of the Companies Act, 2013.
During the year, the Holding Company had initiated the process of transferring amounts pertaining to Unpaid Dividend to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) well before due date. But due to technical glitches in MCA portal and change over from V2 
version to V3 version, process got delayed and had filed the e-form IEPF – 1 with MCA after due date which was beyond the control 
of Company. Due care has been taken in filing e-form with MCA within due date. 
Note 60: Audit Trail
The Group uses accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has operated throughout the year (at application level and at database level) for all relevant transactions recorded in 
the software. Further, the audit trail has been preseved by the Company as per statutory requirements for record retention.
Note 61: Undisclosed income
There are no transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that have been surrendered or disclosed as income during 
the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961).
Note 62: Disclosure on Long Tem Contracts
The company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material foresseeable losses.
Note 63: Previous year figures
Previous year figures have been regrouped/reclassified, where necessary, to confirm current year’s classification. There are no 
significant regroupings/reclassifications for the year under audit
As per our Report of even date
For KKC & Associates LLP	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No: 105146W/W100621
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Soorej Kombaht	
V. P. Nandakumar	
Dr. Sumitha Nandan
Partner	
Managing Director & CEO	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No: 164366	
DIN: 00044512	
DIN:03625120
Place :Valapad
For Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101872W/W100045
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Vineet Saxena	
Bindu A. L	
Manoj Kumar V. R
Partner	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary
Membership No:100770 
Place: Mumbai	
Place: Valapad
Date: May 09, 2025	
Date: May 09, 2025
Annual Report 
2 0 2 4 - 2 5
402
FORM AOC- 1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2O14)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of  
subsidiaries or associate companies or Joint ventures
PART A Subsidiaries
(Information in respect of each subsidiary to be presented with amounts in `)
(All Amounts are in millions)
Name of Subsidiary
Asirvad Micro 
Finance Limited
Manappuram
Home Finance
Limited
Manappuram 
Insurance 
Brokers Limited
Manappuram 
Comptech And 
Consultants Ltd
1
The date since when Subsidiary was acquired
12/02/2015
12/03/2014
1/1/2016
30/03/2019
2
Reporting period
01-04-2024 to 
31-03-2025
01-04-2024 to 
31-03-2025
01-04-2024 to 
31-03-2025
01-04-2024 to 
31-03-2025
3
Reporting currency
Rupees
Rupees
Rupees
Rupees
4
Share Capital
 2,002.83 
2,500.00
15.7
52.70
5
Reserves and Surplus
 13,144.75 
778.69
1115.03
106.85
6
Total Assets
 87,679.44 
19,516.11
1152.37
394.11
7
Total Liabilities
 87,679.44 
16,237.42
21.64
394.11
8
Investments
 4,087.71 
589.43
448.14
0.050
9
Turnover
 27,054.28 
3,139.09
772.37
612.34
10
Profit Before Tax
 (8,110.05) 
294.79
701.87
(138.13)
11
Provision for Tax
 (1,722.89) 
67.01
184.09
33.96
12
Profit After Tax
 (6,387.17) 
227.78
517.78
(104.34)
13
Proposed Dividend
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
14
Extent of Shareholding
97.60%
100.00%
100.00%
99.81%
15
Latest Audited Balance sheet
31/03/2025
31/03/2025
31/03/2025
31/03/2025
Notes:
The following information shall be furnished at the end of the statement:
1.	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: NIL
2.	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: NIL 
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2O13 related to  
Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
Part B Associates and Joint Ventures
Name of Associates or Joint Ventures
Name 1
Name 2
Name 3
1.	
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
2.	
Date on which the Associate or Joint Venture was associated or 
acquired
3.	
Shares of Associate or Joint Ventures held by the company on 
the year end
	
No.
	
Amount of Investment in Associates or Joint Venture
	
Extent of Holding (in percentage)
4.	
Description of how there is significant influence
5.	
Reason why the associate/Joint venture is not consolidated
6.	
Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited 
Balance Sheet
7.	
Profit or Loss for the year
	
i.	
Considered in Consolidation
	
ii.	
Not Considered in Consolidation
1.	
Names of associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations.
2.	
Names of associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year.
Note: This Form is to be certified in the same manner in which the Balance Sheet is to be certified.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
“Surya” 35, Mayflower Avenue,  
Behind Senthil Nagar,  
Sowripalayam Road, 
Coimbatore - 641028
www.in.mpms.mufg.com 
T: +91 422 2314792, 2539835/836,  
4958995
E-mail: coimbatore@in.mpms.mufg.com
Debenture Trustees
Catalyst Trusteeship 
(Formerly known as GDA 
Trusteeship Limited) 
GDA House, Plot No. 85, Bhusari Colony 
Paud Road, Pune - 411038 
Tel: +91 20 25280081  
Fax: +91 20 25280275 
E-mail: dt@ctltrustee.com
Statutory Auditors 
(1)	
Chokshi & Chokshi LLP
	
Chartered Accountants
	
ICAI Firm Registration No: 	
	
	
101872W/W100045
	
Ground Floor, Raghavji ‘B’ Bldg.,
	
Raghavji Road, Off Kemps Corner,
	
Mumbai - 400036, India
(2)	
KKC & Associates LLP 
	
Chartered Accountants
	
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
	
ICAI Firm Registration No: 	
	
	
105146W/W100621
	
Sunshine Tower, Level 19,  
	
Senapati Bapat Marg,  
	
Elphinstone Road,  
	
Mumbai - 400013, India
Secretarial Auditor 
KSR and Co Company Secretaries LLP
No. 101, Indus Chambers,
Govt. Arts College Road, 
Gopalapuram, Coimbatore,  
Tamil Nadu - 641018 
Tel: 0422-2305676, 2302867
Registered Office/Corporate Office
W-4/638 A, Manappuram House
Valapad P.O, Thrissur - 680567, Kerala
Tel: 0487-3050100-108 
E-mail: cosecretary@manappuram.com
Website: www.manappuram.com
Corporate Office (Annexe)
A-Wing, 3rd Floor, Unit No. 301 & 315
Kanakia Wall Street, Andheri Kurla Road
Andheri East, Mumbai,
Maharashtra - 400093 
Tel: 022 266743 11
Bankers/Financial Institutions
1	
Axis Bank  
2	
Federal Bank 
3	
HDFC Bank 
4	
ICICI Bank 
5	
IDBI Bank 
6	
Kotak Mahindra Bank 
7	
Punjab National Bank 
8	
South Indian Bank 
9	
State Bank of India 
10	
IndusInd Bank
11	
Union Bank of India
12	
Bank of Baroda
13	
RBL Bank
14	
Indian Bank
15	
Nabard 
16	
KVB - Karur Vysya Bank
17	
Yes Bank
18	
Shinhan Bank
19	
HSBC
20	
Bank of India
21	
UCO Bank
22	
Karnataka Bank
23	
Citi Bank
24	
SMBC
25	
Bandhan Bank
26	
Bank of Maharashtra
27	
DBS Bank
28	
Canara Bank
29	
Ujjivan Bank
30	
Bajaj Finance
31	
CSB Bank
32	
Dhanlaxmi Bank
Chairman
Dr. Shailesh J Mehta
Managing Director & CEO
Mr. V P Nandakumar
Board Members 
Mr. Abhijit Sen
Mr. Harshan Kollara
Ms. Pratima Ram
Adv. V.P. Seemandini
Dr. Sankaran Nair Rajagopal
Mr. E.K. Bharat Bhushan
Mr. T.C. Suseel Kumar
Executive Director
Dr. Sumitha Nandan 
Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Bindhu A L
Company Secretary &  
Compliance Officer
Mr. Manoj Kumar V R
Corporate Information
Registered Office:
W-4/638A, MANAPPURAM HOUSE
VALAPAD PO, THRISSUR - 680 567, KERALA
CIN NO.: L65910KL1992PLC006623
www.manappuram.com
