 
 
 
 
 
 
(Formerly known as 
Raymond Consumer Care Limited) 
 
 
  
 
 
RLL/SE/25-26/22 
 
July 13, 2025 
 
To  
The Department of Corporate Services - CRD 
BSE Limited 
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street 
Mumbai - 400 001                                            
Scrip Code: 544240 
    National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor 
Bandra-Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051                              
Symbol: RAYMONDLSL 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Raymond Lifestyle Limited - Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 and Notice convening 
the 7th Annual General Meeting 
 
As required under Regulation 30 and Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, we submit herewith the Annual Report of the Company for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 along with the Notice convening the 7th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) scheduled to be held 
on Monday, August 04, 2025 at 03:00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio Visual Means in 
accordance with relevant circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI. 
 
In compliance with the aforesaid circulars, the Annual Report along with the Notice of the AGM is being sent 
only by electronic mode to those shareholders whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/ 
Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company/Depository Participants. For those shareholders who have not 
registered their email ids, a letter providing a weblink and QR code from where the Notice of the AGM and 
Annual Report for the financial year 2024-25 can be accessed is being sent. 
 
The Annual Report along with the Notice of the AGM for the Financial Year 2024-25 is also available on the 
website of the Company at https://raymondlifestyle.com/ . 
 
Please take the above information on record. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
 
 
 
Priti Alkari 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: a/a 
Priti Nitin 
Alkari
Digitally signed by 
Priti Nitin Alkari 
Date: 2025.07.13 
10:40:54 +05'30'
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE SEVENTH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING (“AGM”) OF THE MEMBERS OF RAYMOND 
LIFESTYLE LIMITED (“THE COMPANY”) WILL BE HELD ON 
MONDAY, AUGUST 4, 2025 AT 3:00 P.M. (IST) THROUGH TWO 
WAY VIDEO CONFERENCING (“VC”) / OTHER AUDIO VISUAL 
MEANS (“OAVM”) FACILITY TO TRANSACT THE FOLLOWING 
BUSINESSES:
The proceedings of the Seventh Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered 
Office of the Company at Plot No. G-35 and G-36, MIDC Waluj, 
Taluka Gangapur, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar – 431 136, 
Maharashtra which shall be the deemed venue of the AGM.
ORDINARY BUSINESS(ES):
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
a)	
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2025 and the Reports of the Board of Directors and 
the Auditors thereon; and
b)	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2025 and the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Gautam Hari 
Singhania (DIN: 00020088), who retires by rotation and 
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS(ES):
3.	
TO RATIFY REMUNERATION PAYABLE TO THE COST 
AUDITORS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2025-26
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 14 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 [including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force] and as approved by the Board of Directors 
of the Company, remuneration up to ₹ 7,18,000/- (Rupees 
Seven Lakh Eighteen Thousand Only) (plus applicable 
taxes and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses 
incurred in connection with the audit) to be paid to 
M/s R. Nanabhoy & Co., Cost Accountants, (Firm 
Registration Number: 000010) to conduct the audit of the 
cost records of the Company under the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 [including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force] for the Financial Year 2025-26, be and is 
hereby ratified and confirmed; and
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 
Company and Mrs. Priti Alkari, Company Secretary, be 
and are hereby severally authorised to do all acts and take 
all such steps as may be necessary, proper or expedient to 
give effect to this Resolution.”
4.	
TO 
APPOINT 
SECRETARIAL 
AUDITOR 
OF 
THE 
COMPANY
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 204 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), read with Rule 
9 of the Companies (Appointment & Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and Regulation 24A 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, (including any statutory modification(s) or 
amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time 
being in force) and based on the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the 
Company, M/s. DM & Associates Company Secretaries 
LLP (ICSI Firm Registration No. L2017MH003500) be 
and is here by appointed as the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company for first term of five (5) years, commencing 
from the financial year 2025-26 till the financial year 
2029-30 i.e. April 01, 2025 until March 31, 2030, on such 
a remuneration as may be finalized between the Company 
Secretary and the Secretarial Auditor with the power to the 
Board of Directors to increase the remuneration by 5% to 
10% per annum ; and
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any of the Director of the 
Company and Mrs. Priti Alkari, Company Secretary be and 
is hereby severally authorised to file the requisite Forms, 
if any with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, and issue 
appointment letters and issued certified true copies of 
the resolution and do all such acts, deeds and things as 
maybe required to give effect to the Resolution.”
CIN: L74999MH2018PLC316288
Registered Office: Plot No. G-35 & G-36, MIDC Waluj,
Taluka Gangapur, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar – 431 136, Maharashtra
Tel.: +912406644111, Corporate Office Tel.: 02261527000
Email: secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.in , Website: www.raymondlifestyle.com
NOTICE
7th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Formerly known as Raymond Consumer Care Limited)
LIFESTYLE LIMITED
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
1
5.	
APPROVAL OF ‘RAYMOND LIFESTYLE EMPLOYEES 
STOCK OPTION PLAN 2025’
	
	To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 62(1)(b) and 
all other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), and the Rules made thereunder, 
applicable regulations of the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI Regulations’), the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999, the relevant provisions 
of Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Company, the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force and subject to such 
other approvals, permissions and sanctions, as may 
be necessary and subject to such conditions and 
modifications as may be prescribed or imposed while 
granting such approvals, permissions and sanctions, 
consent of the members of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded to the introduction and implementation of 
‘Raymond Lifestyle Employees Stock Option Plan 2025’ 
(‘RLL ESOP 2025’ or ‘Plan’), the salient features of which 
are detailed in the Explanatory Statement to this Notice 
and authorise the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’ which term shall 
be deemed to include any committee, including the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee which the 
Board has designated as Compensation Committee to 
exercise its powers, including the powers, conferred by 
this resolution), to create, issue, offer, grant and allot 
from time to time, in one or more tranches, 13,44,470 
employee stock options convertible into 13,44,470 equity 
shares of face value of Rs. 2/- (Rupees Two only) each 
fully paid-up aggregating up to approximately 2.21% of 
the existing paid-up equity share capital of the Company, 
ranking pari passu with the existing equity shares of 
the Company for all purposes and in all respects, 
including payment of dividend, to or for the benefit of the 
employees, exclusively working in India or outside India, 
who are in the employment of the Company including any 
Director, whether whole-time or otherwise (other than 
the employee who is Promoter or person belonging to the 
Promoter Group, Independent Directors of the Company 
and Directors holding directly or indirectly more than 10% 
of the outstanding equity shares of the Company) on such 
terms and in such manner as the Board may decide under 
the Plan in accordance with the SEBI Regulations and 
other applicable laws;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the RLL ESOP 2025 shall 
be administered and implemented through a Trust under 
SEBI Regulations proposed to be set-up by the Company;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case of any corporate 
action(s) such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger, 
demerger, sale of division, expansion of capital, change in 
capital structure and others, if any, additional employee 
stock options shall be granted by the Company to the 
option grantees for the purpose of making a fair and 
reasonable adjustment to the employee stock options 
granted earlier, the above ceiling in terms of number of 
equity shares shall be deemed to be increased to the 
extent and in proportion to the additional equity shares 
issued in the aforesaid corporate action(s);
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case the equity shares 
of the Company are either sub-divided or consolidated, 
then the number of equity shares to be transferred by the 
Trust and the price of acquisition payable by the option 
grantees under RLL ESOP 2025 shall automatically stand 
increased or reduced, as the case may be, in the same 
proportion as the present face value of Rs. 2/- (Rupees 
Two only) per equity share shall bear to the revised face 
value of the equity shares of the Company after such 
sub-division or consolidation, without affecting any other 
rights or obligations of the said option grantees and the 
ceiling in terms of number of shares specified above shall 
be deemed to be adjusted accordingly;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Company shall conform 
to the accounting policies prescribed from time to time 
under the SEBI Regulations and any other applicable laws 
and regulations to the extent relevant and applicable to 
RLL ESOP 2025;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to take requisite steps for listing of the equity 
shares allotted under RLL ESOP 2025 on the Stock 
Exchanges where the equity shares of the Company are 
listed in due compliance with SEBI Regulations and other 
applicable laws;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds and things, as it 
may, at its absolute discretion, deem necessary including 
authorisation or issuance of directions to appoint 
merchant bankers, advisors, solicitors, consultants 
or representatives, being incidental to the effective 
implementation and administration of RLL ESOP 2025 
and make applications to the appropriate authorities for 
their requisite approvals and settle all such questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever which may arise and 
take all such steps and decisions in this regard;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to devise, formulate, modify, change, vary, 
alter, amend, suspend or terminate RLL ESOP 2025, 
subject to compliance with the applicable laws and 
regulations and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may in its absolute discretion deem fit, for 
such purpose and also to settle any issues, questions, 
difficulties or doubts that may arise in this regard without 
being required to seek any further consent or approval of 
the Members of the Company and further to delegate the 
administration of RLL ESOP 2025 to the Trust and execute 
all such documents, writings and to give such directions 
and/or instructions as may be necessary or expedient to 
give effect to RLL ESOP 2025 and to do all other things 
incidental to and ancillary thereof.”
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
2
6.	
APPROVAL 
FOR 
EXTENSION 
OF 
‘RAYMOND 
LIFESTYLE 
EMPLOYEES 
STOCK 
OPTION 
PLAN 
2025’ TO EMPLOYEES OF GROUP COMPANY(IES) 
INCLUDING ITS HOLDING / SUBSIDIARY / ASSOCIATE 
COMPANY(IES)
	
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 62(1)(b) and 
all other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), and the Rules made thereunder, 
applicable regulations of the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI Regulations’), the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999, the relevant provisions 
of Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Company, the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force and subject to such 
other approvals, permissions and sanctions, as may 
be necessary and subject to such conditions and 
modifications as may be prescribed or imposed while 
granting such approvals, permissions and sanction, 
consent of the members of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded to Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘Board’ which term shall be deemed 
to include any committee, including the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee which the Board has 
constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers, 
conferred by this resolution) to extend the benefits of the 
‘Raymond Lifestyle Employees Stock Option Plan 2025’ 
(‘RLL ESOP 2025’ or ‘Plan’) referred to in Resolution No. 5 
of this Notice to offer, grant and issue from time to time, in 
one or more tranches, 13,44,470 employee stock options 
convertible into 13,44,470 equity shares of face value of 
Rs.2/- (Rupees Two only) each fully paid-up aggregating 
up to approximately 2.21% of the existing paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company, ranking pari passu with the 
existing equity shares of the Company for all purposes 
and in all respects, including payment of dividend, to or 
for the benefit of the employees, exclusively working in 
India or outside India, who are in the employment of the 
Group Company(ies) including its Holding / Subsidiary 
/ Associate company(ies) (present and future, if any) 
including any Director, whether whole-time or otherwise 
(other than the employee who is Promoter or person 
belonging to the Promoter Group, Independent Directors 
of the Company and Directors holding directly or indirectly 
more than 10% of the outstanding equity shares of the 
Company) on such terms and in such manner as the 
Board may decide under the Plan in accordance with the 
SEBI Regulations and other applicable laws;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case of any corporate 
action(s) such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger, 
demerger, sale of division, expansion of capital, change in 
capital structure and others, if any, additional employee 
stock options shall be granted by the Company to the 
option grantees for the purpose of making a fair and 
reasonable adjustment to the employee stock options 
granted earlier, the above ceiling in terms of number of 
equity shares shall be deemed to be increased to the 
extent and in proportion to the additional equity shares 
issued in the aforesaid corporate action(s);
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case the equity shares 
of the Company are either sub-divided or consolidated, 
then the number of equity shares to be transferred by the 
Trust and the price of acquisition payable by the option 
grantees under RLL ESOP 2025 shall automatically stand 
increased or reduced, as the case may be, in the same 
proportion as the present face value of Rs.2/- (Rupees 
Two only) per equity share shall bear to the revised face 
value of the equity shares of the Company after such 
sub-division or consolidation, without affecting any other 
rights or obligations of the said option grantees and the 
ceiling in terms of number of shares specified above shall 
be deemed to be adjusted accordingly;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company 
be and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as may be necessary or expedient to 
extend the benefits of RLL ESOP 2025 for employees of 
its Group Company(ies) including its Holding / Subsidiary 
/ Associate Company(ies) and to do all other things 
incidental to and ancillary thereof.”
7.	
IMPLEMENTATION 
OF 
RAYMOND 
LIFESTYLE 
EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION PLAN 2025 THROUGH 
THE TRUST
	
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’), SEBI (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 
including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘SEBI Regulations’) and other applicable laws, if any, 
and subject to such other approvals, permissions and 
sanctions, as may be necessary and subject to such 
conditions and modifications as may be prescribed or 
imposed while granting such approvals, permissions 
and sanctions, consent of the members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded to Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’ which 
term shall be deemed to include any committee, including 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee which the 
Board has constituted to exercise its powers, including 
the powers, conferred by this resolution), to implement 
‘Raymond Lifestyle Stock Option Plan 2025’ (‘RLL ESOP 
2025’) referred to in Resolution Nos. 5 and 6 of this Notice 
through a Trust (hereinafter referred to as ‘RLL ESOP 
Trust’) to be set up as per the provisions of all applicable 
laws and the Trust may subscribe, acquire, purchase, hold 
and deal in fully paid-up equity shares of the Company 
for the purpose of implementation of the RLL ESOP 
2025 or any other employees stock plan or share based 
employee benefit plan which may be introduced by the 
Company from time to time, or for any other purpose(s) 
as contemplated herein and in due compliance with the 
provisions of the SEBI Regulations, and other applicable 
laws and regulations;
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
3
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the above resolution, the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things 
as may be necessary or expedient and to settle any 
questions, difficulty or doubts that may arise in this regard 
without being required to secure any further consent or 
approval of the members of the Company.”
8.	
AUTHORIZATION TO THE TRUST FOR SECONDARY 
ACQUISITION
	
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’), SEBI (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 and other applicable laws including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force (hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI Regulations’) 
if any, and subject to such other approvals, permissions 
and sanctions, as may be necessary and subject to such 
conditions and modifications as may be prescribed or 
imposed while granting such approvals, permissions 
and sanctions, consent of the members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded to Board of Directors of the 
Company (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’ which 
term shall be deemed to include any committee, including 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee which the 
Board has constituted to exercise its powers, including 
the powers, conferred by this resolution), for secondary 
acquisition of equity shares of the Company from the 
secondary market through a Trust (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘Trust’) to be set up for implementation of RLL ESOP 
2025 referred to in Resolution Nos. 5 and 6 of this Notice, 
at such price or prices, in one or more tranches and on 
such terms and conditions, as may be determined by the 
Board in accordance with SEBI Regulations, not exceeding 
2,40,000 (Two Lakh Forty Thousand only) equity shares of 
the Company being approximately 0.39% of the existing 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case of any corporate 
action(s) such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger, 
demerger, sale of division, expansion of capital, change in 
capital structure and others, if any, additional employee 
stock options of the Company shall be granted to the 
employees pursuant to the RLL ESOP 2025 for the purpose 
of making a fair and reasonable adjustment to the stock 
options granted to them, the number of paid-up equity 
shares in the above ceiling of approximately 0.39% of the 
existing paid-up equity share capital of the Company be 
deemed to be increased in proportion to the additional 
equity shares issued in the aforesaid corporate action(s);
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case the equity shares of 
the Company are either sub-divided or consolidated, the 
above ceiling of approximately 0.39% shall automatically 
stand increased or reduced, as the case may be, in the 
same proportion as the present face value of Rs.2/- 
(Rupees Two only) per equity share shall bear to the 
revised face value of the equity shares of the Company 
after such sub-division or consolidation;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the above resolution, the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things 
as may be necessary or expedient and to settle any 
questions, difficulty or doubts that may arise in this regard 
without being required to secure any further consent or 
approval of the Members of the Company.”
9. 	
APPROVAL FOR PROVISION OF MONEY BY THE 
COMPANY TO THE TRUST
	
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
67 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read with Rule 
16 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Act, the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being 
in force (hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI Regulations’) and 
other applicable laws and subject to such other approvals, 
permissions and sanctions as may be necessary and 
such conditions and modifications as may be prescribed 
or imposed while granting such approvals, permissions 
and sanctions and subject to acceptance of such 
condition(s) or modification(s) by the Board of Directors 
of the Company in its sole discretion (hereinafter referred 
to as the ‘Board’, which expression shall also include 
any Committee including Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee constituted by the Board for this purpose), 
consent of the Members of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded for making an interest free provision of money 
by way of loan, not exceeding 5% of the aggregate of the 
paid-up share capital and free reserves of the Company, 
from time to time, in one or more tranches, to the Trust 
as may be set up, for acquisition of equity shares of the 
Company, for implementation of RLL ESOP 2025 referred 
to in Resolution Nos. 5 and 6 of this Notice, subject to 
the overall limits specified under RLL ESOP 2025 and as 
permitted under SEBI Regulations and other applicable 
laws;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the above resolution, the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things 
as may be necessary or expedient and to settle any 
questions, difficulty or doubts that may arise in this regard 
without being required to secure any further consent or 
approval of the members of the Company.”
Registered Office:                   By Order of the Board of Directors
Plot No. G-35 and G-36,            For Raymond Lifestyle Limited
MIDC Waluj,
Taluka Gangapur, Chhatrapati
Sambhajinagar - 431136,
Maharashtra.
Priti Alkari
May 12, 2025 	
Company Secretary
Mumbai	
Membership No.: FCS 6389
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
4
Notes:
1.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) setting out material facts 
concerning the business under Item Nos. 3 to 9 of the 
accompanying Notice, is annexed hereto. The Explanatory 
Statement also contains the relevant details of the 
Director as required by Regulation 36(3) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard – 2 (“SS-2”) 
on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”).
2.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India 
(“MCA”) vide General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated 
April 8, 2020, 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 20/2020 
dated May 5, 2020 and 09/2024 dated, September 19, 
2024, (“MCA Circulars”) has allowed conduct of Annual 
General Meetings (“AGM”) by Companies through Video 
Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“VC/ OAVM”) 
facility up to September 30, 2025, in accordance with 
the requirements provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 
MCA General Circular No. 20/2020. The Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) also vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 
2020, and Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/
CIR/2024/133 dated October 3, 2024 (“SEBI Circulars”) 
has provided certain relaxations from compliance with 
certain provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In 
compliance with these Circulars, provisions of the Act and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 7th AGM of the Company 
is being conducted through VC/ OAVM facility, which does 
not require physical presence of members at a common 
venue. 
3.	
In terms of the MCA Circulars, physical attendance of 
members has been dispensed with and therefore, there 
is no requirement of appointment of proxies. Accordingly, 
the facility of appointment of proxies by members under 
Section 105 of the Act will not be available for the 7th AGM. 
However, pursuant to Section 112 and Section 113 of the 
Act, representatives of the members may be appointed 
for the purpose of voting through remote e-Voting, for 
participation in the 7th AGM through VC/ OAVM facility and 
e-Voting during the 7th AGM.
4.	
In terms of the MCA Circulars and relevant circulars issued 
by SEBI, the Notice of the 7th AGM and Annual Report for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025 is being sent only 
through electronic mode to those members whose email 
addresses are registered with the Company/ Depository 
Participants (“DPs”) / MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(“RTA) and will also be available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.raymondlifestyle.com/, on the 
website of BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com, on the 
website of National Stock Exchange of India Limited at 
www.nseindia.com and also on the website of National 
Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) at www.evoting.
nsdl.com. Since the 7th AGM will be held through VC/ 
OAVM facility, the Route Map is not annexed to this Notice.
5.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act 
read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended, SS-2 issued by 
the ICSI and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
read with MCA Circulars, the Company is providing remote 
e-Voting facility to its members in respect of the business 
to be transacted at the 7th AGM and facility for those 
members participating in the 7th AGM to cast vote through 
e-Voting system. The Company has engaged the services 
of NSDL to provide e-Voting and VC/ OAVM facility.
6.	
Members may join the 7th AGM through VC/ OAVM facility 
by following the procedure as mentioned below which 
shall be kept open for the members from 2:30 P.M. IST i.e., 
30 minutes before the time scheduled to start the 7th AGM 
and the Company may close the window for joining the 
VC/ OAVM facility 30 minutes after the scheduled time to 
start the 7th AGM.
7.	
Members may note that the VC/ OAVM facility provided 
by NSDL, allows participation of at least one thousand 
members on a first-come-first-served basis. The large 
members (i.e. members holding  2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, 
Institutional 
Investors, 
Directors, 
Key 
Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Auditors, etc. 
can attend the 7th AGM without any restriction on account 
of first-come-first-served basis.
8.	
Attendance of the members participating in the 7th AGM 
through VC/ OAVM facility shall be counted for the purpose 
of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
9.	
General instructions for accessing and participating in 
the 7th AGM through VC/ OAVM facility and voting through 
electronic means including remote e-Voting:-
A.	
Instructions for Remote e-Voting:
	
The remote e-Voting period will commence from 
Thursday, July 31, 2025 at 09:00 A.M. (IST) and end on 
Sunday, August 3, 2025 at 5:00 P.M (IST). During this 
period, members of the Company, holding shares in 
dematerialized form, as on the cut-off date i.e., Monday, 
July 28, 2025, may cast their vote electronically. The voting 
right of members shall be in proportion to their share in 
the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the 
cut- off date. Once the vote on a resolution is cast by the 
member, the member shall not be allowed to change it 
subsequently.
B.	
A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date 
should treat this Notice of the 7th AGM for information 
purpose only.
	
The details of the process and manner for remote e-Voting 
are explained herein below:
Step 1: Log-in to NSDL e-Voting system at https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system.
Step 1: How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
I.	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for Individual Members holding securities in demat 
mode
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 09, 2020 
on “e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies”, 
e-Voting process has been enabled to all the individual 
demat account holders, by way of single login credential, 
through their demat account(s)/ websites of Depositories/ 
Depository Participant(s) (“DPs”) in order to increase the 
efficiency of the voting process. Individual demat account 
holders would be able to cast their vote without having to 
register again with the e-Voting service provider (“ESP”) 
thereby not only facilitating seamless authentication but 
also ease and convenience of participating in e-Voting 
process.
	
Members are advised to update their mobile number and 
e-mail address with their DPs in order to access e-Voting 
facility.
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
5
Login method for Individual members holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual Members 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
NSDL
A.	 NSDL IDeAS facility
If you are already registered, follow the below steps:
1.	
Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.
nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile.
2.	
Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the ‘Beneficial Owner’ icon under ‘Login’ 
which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section.
3.	
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services under Value Added Services section.
4.	
Click on ‘Access to e-voting’ appearing under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting 
page.
5.	
Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider – NSDL and you will 
be re-directed to NSDL e-voting website for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
	
If you are not registered, follow the below steps:
a.	
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com
b.	
Select ‘Register Online for IDeAS’ Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp
c.	
After getting yourself registered, please follow steps given in points 1-5.
B.	 E-voting website of NSDL
1.	
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal 
computer or on a mobile phone.
2.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon ‘Login’ which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
3.	
A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen-digit demat account 
number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
4.	
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein you can see e-voting 
page. Click on Company name or e-voting service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
C.	 NSDL Mobile App
	
Members can also download NSDL Mobile App ‘NSDL Speede’ facility by scanning the QR code 
mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
         
NSDL Mobile App is available on
Individual Members 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
CDSL
1.	
Existing users who have opted for CDSL Easi/Easiest, can login through their User ID and password. 
The option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any further authentication. The users 
to login Easi/Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon 
and select New System Myeasi and then use your existing my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login to Easi/Easiest, the user will be able to see the e-voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by Company. On clicking 
the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-voting page of the e-voting service provider for casting 
your vote during the remote e-voting period. Additionally, there are also links provided to access the 
system of all e-voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-voting service providers’ website 
directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website at 
www.cdslindia.com and you may click on login icon and then click New System Myeasi and then click 
on registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN 
No. from an e-voting link in www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by 
sending OTP on registered Mobile No. and e-mail address as recorded in the demat account. After 
successful authentication, the user will be able to see the e-voting option where the e-voting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-voting Service Providers.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
6
Individual Members 
(holding securities 
in demat mode) 
login through 
their depository 
participants
1.	
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility.
2.	
Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-voting option. Click on e-voting option, you will be redirected 
to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
3.	
Click on company name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use ‘Forget User ID’ and ‘Forget Password 
option’ available at above-mentioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e., NSDL and CDSL:
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Members holding 
securities in demat with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com or call on 022-48867000
Individual Members holding 
securities in demat with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request 
at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact on 1800-21-09911.
II.	 Login Method for Members other than Individual Members holding securities in demat mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-voting website?
1.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on 
a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon ‘Login’ which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section.
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen.
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL e-services i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL e-services after using your log-in credentials, click on e-voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e., Cast your vote electronically.
4.	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) 
Your User ID is:
For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID For example: if your DP ID is 
IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******
For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID For example: if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** 
then your user ID is 12**************
5.	
Password details for Members other than Individual 
Members are given below:
a)	
If you are already registered for e-voting, then 
you can use your existing password to login and 
cast your vote.
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the 
first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’ which was communicated to you. 
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
(i)	
If your e-mail address is registered in your demat 
account or with the company, your ‘initial password’ 
is communicated to you at your e-mail address. 
Trace the e-mail sent to you from NSDL from your 
mailbox. Open the e-mail and open the attachment 
i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to 
open the .pdf file is your 8-digit client ID for NSDL 
account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account. 
The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial 
password’.
(ii)	
If your e-mail address is not registered, please follow 
the procedure with respect to registration of e-mail 
addresses as mentioned above in Note no.7 of this 
Notice.
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
‘Initial password’ or have forgotten your password:
a)	
Click on Forgot User Details/Password? (If 
you are holding shares in your demat account 
with NSDL or CDSL) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
7
b)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, your PAN, your 
name and your registered address etc.
c)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on 
the e-voting system of NSDL.
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to ‘Terms 
and Conditions’ by selecting on the check box.
8.	
Now, you will have to click on the ‘Login’ button.
9.	
After you click on the ‘Login’ button, Home page of 
e-voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system
How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system?
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all 
the companies ‘EVEN’ in which you are holding shares 
having voting cycle.
2.	
Select ‘EVEN’ of company for which you wish to cast your 
vote during the remote e-voting period.
3.	
EVEN of the Company is 134544.
4.	
Now you are ready for e-voting as the Voting page opens.
5.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent 
or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on ‘Submit’ and also 
‘Confirm’ when prompted.
6.	
Upon confirmation, the message ‘Vote cast successfully’ 
will be displayed.
7.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by 
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
8.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not 
be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for Members
1.	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, 
NRI etc.) are required to upload their Board Resolution/ 
Power of Attorney/ Authority Letter by clicking on “Upload 
Board Resolution/ Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-voting” tab on the screen or send scanned copy (PDF/ 
JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to 
the Scrutinizer by e-mail to dmassociatesllp@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the ‘Forgot User Details/Password’.
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Members and e-voting 
user manual for Members available at the download 
section 
of 
www.evoting.nsdl.com 
or 
call 
on
022-48867000 or send a request to Mr. Sanjeev Yadav, 
Assistant Manager–NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com or contact 
at NSDL, C-31, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
East, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400051.
Process for those Members whose email addresses are not 
registered with the depositories for procuring user id and 
password and registration of email address for e-voting for 
the resolution set out in this Notice:
1.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16-digit DPID + CLID or 16-digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
Statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhaar Card) 
to the Company’s email address at secretarial.lifestyle@
raymond.in.
2.	
If you are an individual member holding securities in demat 
mode, you are requested to refer to the login method 
explained at Step 1 (A) i.e., Login method for e-voting for 
individual members holding securities in demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively, shareholders/ members may send a request 
to NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and 
password for e-voting by providing above mentioned 
documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI Circular dated December 9, 2020 on 
e-voting facility provided by listed companies, individual 
members holding securities in demat mode are allowed 
to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participant(s). Members 
are required to update their mobile number and email 
address correctly in their demat account in order to 
access e-voting facility.
A	
Instructions for Members for participating in the 7th AGM 
through VC/ OAVM are as under:
a) 	
The members will be provided with a facility to attend 
the 7th AGM through VC/ OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access the same 
by following the steps mentioned above for “Access 
to NSDL e-Voting system”. The link for VC/ OAVM 
will be available in “Shareholder/ Member login” 
where the EVEN (“E-voting Event Number”) of the 
Company will be displayed. After successful login, 
the members will be able to see the link of “VC/ 
OAVM” placed under the tab “Join Meeting” against 
the name of the Company. On clicking this link, the 
members will be able to attend the 7th AGM. Please 
note that the members who do not have the User ID 
and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User 
ID/ Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-Voting instructions mentioned above in the 
notice, to avoid last minute rush.
b) 	
Members may join the Meeting through Laptops, 
Smartphones and Tablets. Further, members will 
be required to allow Camera and use Internet with 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
8
a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the 
Meeting. Members will need the latest version of 
Chrome, Safari, MS Edge or Firefox. Please note 
that participants connecting from Smartphones or 
Tablets or through Laptops connecting via mobile 
hotspot may experience Audio/ Video loss due to 
fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection 
to mitigate any glitches.
c) 	
Members can submit questions in advance with 
regard to the financial statements or any other matter 
to be placed at the 7th AGM, from their registered 
email address, mentioning their name, DP ID and 
Client ID number/ folio number and mobile number, 
to reach the Company’s email address at secretarial.
lifestyle@raymond.in. at least 48 hours in advance 
before the start of the meeting. Such questions by 
the members shall be taken up during the meeting 
and replied by the Company suitably.
d) 	
Members, who would like to express their view/ ask 
questions during the 7th AGM with regard to the 
financial statements or any other matter to be placed 
at the 7th AGM, need to pre-register themselves as a 
speaker by sending a request from their registered 
email address mentioning their name, DP ID and 
Client ID number/ folio number and mobile number, 
to reach the Company’s email address at secretarial.
lifestyle@raymond.in. at least 48 hours in advance 
before the start of the meeting. Those members who 
have pre-registered themselves as a speaker will be 
allowed to express their view/ ask questions during 
the 7th AGM, depending upon the availability of time.
e) 	
When a pre-registered speaker is invited to speak 
at the meeting, but he/ she does not respond, the 
next speaker will be invited to speak. Accordingly, all 
speakers are requested to get connected to a device 
with a video/ camera along with good internet speed.
f) 	
The Company reserves the right to restrict the 
number of questions and number of speakers, as 
appropriate, to ensure the smooth conduct of the 
7th AGM.
g) 	
Institutional Investors who are members of the 
Company, are encouraged to attend and vote in the 
7th AGM through VC/ OAVM facility.
	
Instructions for Members for e-Voting during the 7th 
AGM are as under:
a) 	
Members may follow the same procedure for 
e-Voting during the 7th AGM as mentioned above for 
remote e-Voting.
b)	
Only those members/ shareholders, who will be 
present in the 7th AGM through VC/ OAVM facility 
and have not cast their vote on the Resolution(s) 
through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not 
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through 
e-Voting system in the 7th AGM.
c)	
Members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-Voting prior to the 7th AGM may also participate in 
the h AGM through VC/ OAVM facility. However, they 
shall not be entitled to cast their vote again.
d) 	
The helpline details of the person who may be 
contacted by the member needing assistance with 
the use of technology, before or during the 7th AGM 
shall be the same persons mentioned for remote 
e-Voting and reproduced here for convenience:
	
Mr. Sanjeev Yadav, Assistant Manager or Ms. Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL, Trade World, ‘A’ 
Wing, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati 
Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013, at the 
designated email address: evoting@nsdl.com or at 
telephone no.: 022-48867000. Members may also 
write to the Company Secretary at the Company’s 
email address secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.in.
Other Guidelines for Members
a)	
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion to their 
share in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company 
as on the cut-off date i.e; Monday; July 28, 2025.
b)	
Any person who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes member after the Notice is sent through e-mail 
and holds shares as on the cut-off date i.e. Monday, 
July 28, 2025, may obtain, the User ID and password 
by sending a request to NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com or 
the Company’s email address at secretarial.lifestyle@
raymond.in. However, if you are already registered with 
NSDL for remote e-Voting then you can use your existing 
user ID and password for casting your vote. If you forget 
your password, you can reset your password by using 
“Forgot User Details/ Password” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022-48867000. In case 
of Individual shareholders who acquires shares of the 
Company in demat mode and becomes a Member of the 
Company after sending of the Notice and holds shares as 
on the cut-off date i.e. Monday July 28, 2025, may follow 
steps mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under “Log-in to 
NSDL e-Voting system.”
c)	
A person, whose name is recorded in the Register 
of Members or in the Register of Beneficial Owners 
maintained by the depositories as on the cut-off date only 
shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote e-Voting or 
casting vote through e-Voting system during the 7th AGM.
d)	
During the 7th AGM, the Chairman shall, after response 
to the questions raised by the members in advance or 
as a speaker at the 7th AGM, formally propose to the 
members participating through VC/ OAVM facility to vote 
on the resolutions as set out in the Notice of the 7th AGM 
and announce the start of the casting of vote through the 
e-Voting system. After the members participating through 
VC/ OAVM facility, eligible and interested to cast votes, 
have cast the votes, the e-Voting will be closed with the 
formal announcement of closure of the 7th AGM.
e)	
Mr. Dinesh Deora (Membership No. F5683, COP No. 4119) 
or in his absence Mr. T. Kaushik (Membership No. F10607 
COP No. 16207), Partners of DM & Associates Company 
Secretaries LLP, have been appointed as the Scrutinizer 
to scrutinize the remote e-Voting process and casting vote 
through the e-Voting system during the meeting in a fair 
and transparent manner.
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
9
f)	
The Scrutinizer shall after the conclusion of e-Voting at the 
7th AGM, first download the votes cast at the 7th AGM and 
thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-Voting 
and shall make a consolidated scrutinizer’s report of the 
total votes cast in favour or against, invalid votes, if any, 
and whether the resolution has been carried or not, and 
such Report shall then be sent to the Chairman or a 
person authorized by him, who shall then countersign and 
declare the result of the voting forthwith.
g)	
The Results declared along with the report of the Scrutinizer 
shall be placed on the website of the Company at 
www.raymondlifestyle.com and on the website of NSDL at 
www.evoting.nsdl.com after the declaration of Results by 
the Chairman or a person authorized by him. The Results 
shall also be communicated to the BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
10.	 Electronic copy of the Annual Report for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025 along with the Notice of the 
7th AGM of the Company, inter alia indicating the process 
and manner of e-voting is being sent to all the members 
whose email addresses are registered with the Company/ 
Depository Participant(s) for communication purposes 
unless any member has requested for a hard copy of 
the same. In case any member is desirous of obtaining 
hard copy of the Annual Report for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025 and Notice of the 7th AGM of the 
Company, may send request to the Company’s email 
address at secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.in mentioning 
Folio No./ DP ID and Client ID. Members, whose email 
address is not registered with the Company or with their 
respective Depository Participant(s), and who wish to 
receive the Notice of the 7th AGM and the Annual Report 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 and all other 
communication sent by the Company, from time to time, 
can get their email address registered by following the 
steps as given below:
	
Members holding shares in demat mode may update 
the email address through their respective Depository 
Participant(s) (“DP”).
11.	 SEBI has mandated the updation of PAN, contact details, 
Bank account, specimen signature and nomination 
details, against folio/ demat account. PAN is also required 
to be updated for participating in the securities market, 
deletion of name of deceased holder and transmission / 
transposition of shares. As per applicable SEBI Circular, 
PAN details are to be compulsorily linked to Aadhar details 
by the date specified by Central Board of Direct Taxes. 
Shareholders are requested to submit PAN, or intimate 
all changes pertaining to their bank details, mandates, 
nominations, power of attorney, change of address, 
change of name, e-mail address, contact numbers, 
specimen signature (as applicable) etc., to their DP in 
case of holding in dematerialised form or to Company’s 
RTA through Form ISR-1, Form ISR-2 and Form ISR-3 (as 
applicable) available on the Company’s website at www.
raymondlifestyle.com and on the website of RTA at https://
in.mpms.mufg.com/ in case of holdings in physical form.
12.	 Shareholders may note that SEBI vide its Circular no. 
SEBI/ 
HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated 
January 25, 2022 has mandated the listed companies 
to issue securities in dematerialised form only while 
processing certain prescribed service requests. Further 
SEBI 
vide 
its 
circular 
No.SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/65 dated May 18, 2022 has simplified 
the procedure and standardized the format of documents 
for transmission of securities. Accordingly, members are 
requested to make service requests by submitting a duly 
filled and signed Form ISR-4 and ISR-5, as the case may 
be, the formats of which are available on the Company’s 
website at www.raymondlifestyle.com and on the website 
of RTA at https://in.mpms.mufg.com/. Members are 
requested to note that any service request would only be 
processed after the folio is KYC Compliant.
13.	 In accordance with the provisions of Section 72 of the Act 
and SEBI circulars, the facility for nomination is available 
for the members of the Company in respect of the shares 
held by them. Members who have not yet registered 
their nomination are requested to register the same by 
submitting the Form SH-13. If a Member desires to opt 
out or cancel the earlier nomination and record a fresh 
nomination, he/she may submit the same in Form ISR-3 or 
Form SH-14, as the case may be.  Members are requested 
to submit the said details to their respective DP, in case 
the shares are held by them in dematerialised form.
14.	 Members may note that, in terms of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, equity shares of the Company can only be 
transferred in dematerialised form.
15.	 Documents referred to in the accompanying Notice of the 
7th AGM and the Explanatory Statement shall be made 
available at the commencement of the meeting and shall 
remain open and accessible to the members during the 
continuance of the 7th AGM. During the 7th AGM, Members 
may access the scanned copy of these documents, upon 
Log-in to NSDL e-Voting system at https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com.
16.	 The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding maintained under Section 170 of 
the Act and the Register of Contracts and Arrangements 
in which Directors are interested maintained under 
Section 189 of the Act shall be made available at the 
commencement of the meeting and shall remain open 
and accessible to the members during the continuance of 
the 7th AGM. During the 7th AGM, Members may access the 
scanned copy of these documents, upon Log-in to NSDL 
e-Voting system at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
17.	 Details as required under Regulation 36 of the Listing 
Regulations and SS-2 issued by ICSI, in respect of the 
Directors seeking re-appointment at the 7th AGM, forms 
an integral part of this Notice. Requisite declarations have 
been received from the Director seeking re-appointment.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
10
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT SETTING OUT ALL MATERIAL 
FACTS CONCERNING THE BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED 
AT THE 7TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AS STATED IN THE 
NOTICE DATED MAY 12, 2025: [ Pursuant To Section 102 Of 
The Companies Act, 2013]
Item No. 3: Ordinary Resolution
The Board of Directors at its Meeting held on May 12, 2025, 
upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, approved 
the appointment of M/s. R. Nanabhoy & Co., Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration Number:000010), to conduct the audit of the 
cost records of the Company on a consolidated remuneration 
up to ` 7,18,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakh Eighteen Thousand 
Only) (excluding all applicable taxes and reimbursement of out 
of pocket expenses incurred in connection with the audit) for 
the Financial Year ending March 31, 2026.
In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies 
Act read with Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended from time to time), the remuneration 
as mentioned above, payable to the Cost Auditor is required to 
be ratified by the Members of the Company. Accordingly, the 
Members are requested to ratify the remuneration payable to 
the Cost Auditors for the financial year ending March 31, 2026.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and/ or their relatives are in any way concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the proposed Resolution.
The Board recommends the Resolution set out at Item No. 3 for 
ratification of remuneration for approval by the Members as an 
Ordinary Resolution.
Item No. 4: Ordinary Resolution
This explanatory statement is provided in accordance with 
Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”). 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 204 and other 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment & Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being 
in force) (“the Act”), every listed company and certain other 
prescribed categories of companies are required to annex 
a Secretarial Audit Report, issued by a Practicing Company 
Secretary, to their Board’s report, prepared under Section 
134(3) of the Act.
Further, in terms of Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, every listed entity is required to conduct a 
Secretarial Audit and annex the Secretarial Audit Report 
to its annual report. Pursuant to the amendments made 
to regulation 24A by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. December 13, 2024 from financial year 2025-26 
onwards a listed entity must appoint a Secretarial Audit firm 
for a maximum of two terms of five consecutive years, with 
shareholder approval to be obtained at the Annual General 
Meeting. In compliance with the aforesaid provisions and 
based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the 
Board of Directors at its meeting held on May 12, 2025 have 
recommended and approved the appointment of M/s. DM & 
Associates (‘DM & Associates’), Company Secretaries LLP, 
(ICSI Firm Registration No. L2017MH003500) as the Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company for a period of five years from the 
financial year 2025-26 upto the financial year 2029-30. The 
appointment is subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The fees proposed to be paid to DM & Associates for the financial 
year commencing from FY 2025-26 to FY 2029-30 would be 
finalised between the Company Secretary and Secretarial 
Auditor along with the power to the Board of Directors to 
increase the remuneration by 5% to 10% per annum.
In addition to the secretarial audit, DM & Associates may 
provide such other permissible services from time to time as 
may be approved by the Board of Directors.
Brief description about D.M & Associates
DM & Associates is a firm of Practicing Company Secretaries, 
established by Mr. Dinesh Deora, who has been in this field for 
more than 30 years. The firm is primarily engaged in the areas 
of secretarial audit, corporate advisory services, internal audit 
services, legal due diligence, etc.
DM & Associates have also confirmed their eligibility and 
independence under regulation 24A of SEBI Listing Regulations 
and have expressed their willingness to accept the appointment 
upon approval.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out in 
item no. 4 for approval by the Members.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (KMP), 
and/ or their relatives have any financial or other interest in the 
proposed resolution.
Item Nos. 5 to 9
The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai Bench, 
through its order dated June 21, 2024, approved the Composite 
Scheme of Arrangement for the demerger of the Lifestyle 
Business from Raymond Limited (“Demerged Company”) into 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (“Resulting Company”).
Prior to the demerger, the Demerged Company had 
implemented the RL ESOP 2023, under which employee stock 
options were granted to certain eligible employees (“RL Option 
Holders”). Pursuant to Clauses 8.6 and 8.7 of the Composite 
Scheme of Arrangement, the Board of Directors of the Resulting 
Company was empowered to establish a stock option scheme 
on terms no less favorable to the RL Option Holders.
To preserve the value of the ESOPs following the demerger, 
and to ensure fair and reasonable adjustments, the Resulting 
Company has proposed to adopt and implement the RLL ESOP 
2025. Under this Scheme, eligible RL Option Holders will be 
granted options in ratio similar to what was offered to the equity 
shareholders i.e. 5:4 ratio, with an adjusted exercise price. All 
other terms and conditions remain consistent with those of the 
RL ESOP 2023, as required under the Composite Scheme and 
applicable laws.
The Scheme as originally envisaged in the Demerged Company 
was in force with effect from March 27, 2023 i.e. date on which 
the members of the Demerged Company have approved the 
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
11
Scheme. Now, after demerger of the Lifestyle Business into the 
Resulting Company, to endure the benefit of RL ESOP 2023 to 
RL Option holders and to expand the eligibility of the RL ESOP 
2023 to employees of the Resulting Company, RLL ESOP 2025 
Plan has been devised which will come into effect on the date 
when shareholders of the Company approve the same.
Your Company believes that Equity based compensation plans 
are an effective tool to reward the talents working with your 
Company and its Group Company(ies) including its Holding 
/ Subsidiary / Associate Company(ies) (Present and Future, 
if any). It provides an opportunity to employees to share the 
growth of the Company and its Group Company(ies) including 
its Holding / Subsidiary / Associate Company(ies) (Present and 
Future, if any) and to create long-term wealth in the hands of 
the employees.
With a view to motivate employees by seeking their contribution 
to the corporate growth, to create an employee ownership 
culture, to attract new talent and to retain it for ensuring 
sustained growth your Company intends to implement an 
employee stock option plan namely ‘Raymond Lifestyle 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2025’ (‘RLL ESOP 2025’/ ‘Plan’) 
for the employees of the Company and its Group Company(ies) 
including its Holding / Subsidiary / Associate Company(ies) 
(Present and Future, if any).
Based on the recommendation and approval of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee (‘NRC’/‘Committee’) and the 
Board of Directors of the Company, the proposal for approval 
and introduction of RLL ESOP 2025 is being placed before 
the Members of the Company in accordance with the SEBI 
Regulations.
RLL ESOP 2025 shall be administered and implemented 
through a Trust (hereinafter referred to as ‘Trust’) to be set up 
for acquisition of equity shares of the Company. The Company 
proposes to make an interest free provision of money, not 
exceeding 5% of the aggregate of the paid-up share capital and 
free reserves of the Company, from time to time, in one or more 
tranches, to the Trust for acquisition of equity shares of the 
Company, in accordance with SEBI Regulations, Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and other applicable laws.
In terms of Regulation 6 of SEBI Regulations, for offer of 
the Plan to the employees of the Company, approval of the 
Members by way of Special Resolution is required. Further, 
approval of the Members by way of separate Special Resolution 
is also required for extending the benefits of the Plan to the 
employees of the Group Company(ies) including holding 
company / subsidiary(ies) / associate company(ies) of the 
Company. Additionally, approval of Members is required 
for implementation of the Plan through a Trust mechanism, 
secondary acquisition of shares by the Trust and provision of 
loan by the Company to the Trust for acquisition of shares of the 
Company. Accordingly, the Resolutions contained at Item Nos. 
5 to 9 set out in the Notice are being placed for approval of the 
Shareholders of the Company.
I.	
The disclosure/main features of RLL ESOP 2025 
pursuant to the SEBI Regulations and the Act are as 
under:
a)	
Brief description of the Plan
	
The Plan contemplates grant of options to 
the employees of the Company and its Group 
Company(ies) including its Holding / Subsidiary / 
Associate Company(ies) (Present and Future, if any).
	
After vesting of options, the employees earn a right, 
but not an obligation, to exercise the vested options 
within the exercise period and obtain equity shares 
of the Company which shall be transferred by the 
Trust subject to payment of exercise price and 
satisfaction of any tax obligation arising thereon and 
other terms and conditions of the Plan. The Plan also 
contemplates issuance of fresh equity shares upto 
13,44,470 equity shares.
	
The NRC of the Company shall act as Compensation 
Committee for the supervision of Plan and Trust 
shall administer the Plan under the guidance of the 
Committee. All questions of interpretation of the 
Plan shall be determined by the Committee or Trust 
as per the terms of the Plan.
	
The Plan shall be called Raymond Lifestyle Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2025.
	
The objectives of the Plan are:
•	
To provide means to enable the Company to 
attract and retain appropriate human talent;
•	
To motivate the employees / directors with 
incentives and reward opportunities;
•	
To achieve sustained growth of the Company 
and the creation of shareholder value by 
aligning the interests of the employees / 
directors which will lead to long-term wealth 
creation; and
•	
To create a sense of ownership and participation 
amongst the employees / directors or otherwise 
increase their proprietary interest.
•	
To grant options to the option holders under RL 
ESOP 2023 (who were employees of Raymond 
Limited prior to the implementation of the RLL 
ESOP 2025) and who were either transferred 
to the Company and they continue to remain 
option holders under RL ESOP 2023.
b)	
Total number of Options to be offered and 
granted
	
The total number of stock options to be granted 
under the Plan shall not exceed 2.21% of the existing 
outstanding paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company i.e., 13,44,470 equity shares. Each option 
shall be convertible into one equity share of Rs. 
2/- (Rupees Two Only) each fully paid-up and shall 
be transferred by the Trust to the employee or the 
Trust may sell shares equivalent to such Options 
on the Stock Exchange if the option grantee opts 
for cashless exercise of Options, in the manner 
specified by the NRC.
	
In case of any corporate action(s) such as rights 
issue, bonus issue, merger, demerger, sale of 
division, expansion of capital, change in capital 
structure and others, if any, additional employee 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
12
stock options of the Company shall be granted to 
the Employees for the purpose of making a fair and 
reasonable adjustment to the stock options granted 
to them, the above ceiling in terms of number of 
equity shares shall be deemed to be increased in 
proportion to the additional equity shares issued in 
the aforesaid corporate action(s).
	
In case the equity shares of the Company are either 
sub-divided or consolidated, then the number of 
Equity shares to be transferred by the Trust and 
the price of acquisition payable by the option 
grantees under the Plan shall automatically stand 
augmented or reduced, as the case may be, in the 
same proportion as the present face value of Rs. 
2/- (Rupees Two only) per equity share shall bear 
to the revised face value of the equity shares of the 
Company after such sub-division or consolidation, 
without affecting any other rights or obligations of 
the said option grantees and the ceiling in terms of 
number of shares specified above shall be deemed 
to be adjusted accordingly.
c)	
Identification of classes of Employees entitled 
to participate in the Plan
	
Following classes of employees are entitled to 
participate in the Plan:
(i)	
an employee as designated by the Company, 
who is exclusively working in India or outside 
India;
(ii)	
a director of the Company, whether a whole-
time director or not, including a non-executive 
director who is not a promoter or member of the 
promoter group, but excluding an independent 
director;
(iii)	 an employee as defined in sub-clauses (i) or 
(ii), of a group Company(ies) including holding, 
subsidiary or associate company, in India or 
outside India but does not include –
a)	
an employee who is a promoter or a person 
belonging to the promoter group; or
b)	
a director who, either himself or through his 
relative or through any Body Corporate, directly 
or indirectly, holds more than 10% of the 
outstanding equity shares of the company.
(iv)	 Existing Option holders under RL ESOP 2023.
	
Explanation: Pursuant to the Composite 
Scheme of Arrangement, some of the option 
holders under RL ESOP 2023 have been 
transferred and become employees of the 
Resulting Company and Raymond Realty 
Limited and some continue to be employees of 
Demerged Company.
	
The Employees to whom the Options would be 
granted and their Eligibility Criteria (including 
but not limited to performance, merit, grade, 
conduct and length of service of the Employee) 
would be determined by the Committee, in its 
absolute discretion from time to time.
d)	
Requirements of vesting and period of vesting
	
The Options granted to any Employee shall vest 
within the Vesting Period in the manner as set forth in 
the Grant letter subject to maximum period of 5 years 
from the date of grant. There shall be a minimum 
period of one year between the Grant of Options and 
Vesting of Options. Subject to the terms of the Plan, 
the Vesting of Options shall be Time based and / or 
Performance based (market capitalization, revenue, 
EBITDA, Return on capital employed and such other 
parameters as may be determined by NRC) as 
mentioned in the Grant Letter.
	
Explanation: For the vesting period of adjusted 
options post demerger, the vesting period shall take 
into account the vesting period already lapsed prior 
to the de-merger.
e)	
Maximum period (subject to regulation 18(1) 
of SEBI Regulations) within which the Stock 
Options shall be vested
	
All the stock options granted on any date shall vest 
not later than 5 years from the date of grant of stock 
options.
f)	
 Exercise price
	
Exercise price means the price payable by the 
Employee / Grantee for exercising the Stock Options 
granted to him / her in pursuance of the Plan as may 
be determined by the NRC which shall not be less 
than the Market Price on grant date.
	
For the Options issued prior to the demerger, 
Exercise Price will be the adjusted exercise price 
determined post demerger. The adjustment shall 
be done basis the post demerger market capital of 
Raymond Limited and Raymond Lifestyle Limited.
	
Explanation - For the Options issued prior to the 
demerger under RL ESOP 2023, grant date will be the 
original date of grant under RL ESOP 2023.
g)	
Exercise period and the process of exercise
	
The exercise period would commence from the 
date of vesting and will expire on completion of 
maximum exercise period of 5 years from the date of 
respective vesting or such lesser period as may be 
decided by the Compensation Committee at its sole 
discretion from time to time and mentioned in the 
grant letter of the option grantee. The stock options 
will be exercised by the Employees by submitting an 
Exercise Letter to the Trust.
	
The stock option will lapse if not exercised within the 
specified exercise period.
h)	
The appraisal process for determining the 
eligibility of the Employees for the Plan
	
The Plan shall apply to all the Employees engaged 
in such Grades and Levels as may be decided at the 
discretion of the Committee from time to time. The 
Employees to whom the Options would be granted 
and their Eligibility Criteria (including but not limited 
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
13
to performance, merit, grade, conduct and length of 
service of the Employee) would be determined by 
the Committee, in its absolute discretion from time 
to time.
i)	
Maximum number of stock options to be offered 
and issued per Employee and in aggregate under 
the Plan
	
The maximum number of options granted per 
Employee will be determined by the Committee 
on a case to case basis and the aggregate number 
of Options that may be granted to an identified 
Employee under RLL ESOP 2025 in any one year 
shall be less than 1% of the issued capital of the 
Company at the time of Grant, unless a separate 
specific approval from Members of the Company 
through Special Resolution is obtained for granting 
Options that are 1% or more of the issued capital of 
the Company.
	
The maximum number of stock options, in aggregate, 
that may be granted pursuant to this Plan shall not 
exceed 2.21% of the existing outstanding paid-up 
equity share capital of the Company i.e. 13,44,470 
Equity Shares.
j)	
Maximum quantum of benefits to be provided 
per Employee under the Plan
	
The maximum quantum of benefits underlying 
the Stock Options granted to an Employee can 
be construed to be an amount equal to the 
appreciation in the value of the Company’s equity 
shares determined as on the date of exercise of 
stock options, on the basis of difference between 
the stock option Exercise Price and the Market Price 
of the equity shares on the exercise date.
k)	
Whether the Plan is to be implemented and 
administered directly by the Company or 
through a trust
	
The Plan is proposed to be implemented and 
administered through a Trust (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘RLL ESOP Trust’) to be set up in accordance with 
the SEBI Regulations and the applicable laws.
l)	
Whether the Plan involves new issue of shares 
by the Company or secondary acquisition or 
both
	
The Plan contemplates that the Trust shall acquire 
shares both by subscription to the fresh issue of 
shares by the Company and secondary acquisition 
as mentioned below:
Type of 
acquisition
No. of 
Equity 
shares
% of existing 
outstanding 
paid-up share 
capital
Fresh issue of 
Equity shares
11,04,470
1.81%
Secondary 
market 
acquisition
2,40,000
0.39%
Total
13,44,470
2.21%
m)	
Amount of loan to be provided for implementation 
of the Plan(s) by the Company to the Trust, its 
tenure, utilization, repayment terms, etc.
	
The Board or the Committee shall decide on the 
amount (not exceeding 5% of the aggregate of 
the paid-up share capital and free reserves of the 
Company), tenure, utilization, repayment and other 
terms of loan to be provided to the Trust for the 
purpose of implementation of the Plan subject to 
ceiling prescribed under the Act.
n)	
Maximum percentage of secondary acquisition 
that can be made by the Trust for the purpose of 
the Plan
	
The Trust can undertake secondary acquisition 
of equity shares of the Company so that the total 
number of shares under secondary acquisition held 
by the Trust shall not exceed 0.39% of the existing 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company. In 
case of any corporate action(s) such as rights issue, 
bonus issue, merger, demerger, sale of division, 
expansion of capital, change in capital structure and 
others, if any, additional employee stock options 
of the Company shall be granted to the Employees 
for the purpose of making a fair and reasonable 
adjustment to the stock options granted to them, 
the above ceiling in terms of number of equity shares 
shall be deemed to be increased in proportion to 
the additional equity shares issued in the aforesaid 
corporate action(s).
o)	
A statement to the effect that the Company shall 
conform to the accounting policies specified in 
regulation 15 of SEBI Regulations
	
The Company shall comply with the disclosure and 
accounting policies prescribed in Regulation 15 
of SEBI Regulations and any other authorities as 
applicable, from time to time.
p)	
Method of valuation of stock option by the 
Company
	
The Company shall use the Fair Value Method for 
valuation of the Options as prescribed under the 
Accounting Standards, as applicable and notified by 
appropriate authorities from time to time.
q)	
Declaration
	
In case, the Company opts for expensing of share-
based employee benefits using the intrinsic value, 
the difference between the employee compensation 
cost so computed and the employee compensation 
cost that shall have been recognized if it had used 
the fair value of the stock options shall be disclosed 
in the Directors’ Report and the impact of this 
difference on profits and on Earning Per Share 
(EPS) of the Company shall also be disclosed in the 
Directors’ Report.
r)	
Period of lock-in
	
The Shares allotted upon exercise of stock options 
under the Plan are not subject to any lock in period.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
14
s)	
Terms & conditions for buyback, if any, of 
specified 
securities 
covered 
under 
SEBI 
regulations
	
The Board in accordance with Applicable Laws shall 
lay down the procedure for buy-back of specified 
securities issued under this Plan, to be undertaken 
by the Company at any time under the SEBI (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018, which shall also 
include:
i.	
permissible sources of financing for buy-back;
ii.	
any minimum financial thresholds to be 
maintained by the company as per its last 
financial statements; and
iii.	
limits upon quantum of specified securities 
that the company may buy-back in a financial 
year.
II.	
The details required in the Explanatory Statement 
for the provision of money, under Section 67 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 16 of the 
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 
2014, as amended, are as follows:
a)	
Class of Employees for whose benefit the Plan is 
being implemented and money is being provided 
for purchase of shares
	
As mentioned in Clause I(c) above.
b)	
Particulars of the Trustee(s) or Employees in 
whose favour such shares are to be registered:
	
The Trust will acquire equity shares from the 
Company and secondary market. The shares will be 
registered in the name of all or any of the Trustees of 
the Trust to hold equity shares of the Company for 
and on behalf of the Trust. The equity shares acquired 
by the Trust shall be transferred to the Employees on 
exercise of vested stock options and registered in 
their respective names upon such transfer.
c)	
The particulars of trust and name, address, 
occupation and nationality of trustees and their 
relationship with the Promoters, Directors or 
Key Managerial Personnel, if any
	
Particulars of Trust
	
An Irrevocable Trust is proposed to be set-up with 
the name ‘RLL ESOP Trust’ having its office at such 
place as may be decided by the Board.
	
Particulars of Trustees
	
The Trustee(s) of RLL ESOP Trust would be appointed 
by the Board / Committee and in compliance with 
the applicable provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
Regulations. A person shall not be appointed 
as a Trustee, if he is a director, key managerial 
personnel or promoter of the company or its Group 
company(ies) including its Holding / Subsidiary 
/ Associate Company(ies) or any relative of such 
director, Key Managerial Personnel or Promoter or 
if he beneficially holds 10% or more of the paid-up 
share capital of the company.
d)	
Any interest of Key Managerial Personnel, 
Directors or Promoters in such Plan or Trust and 
effect thereof:
	
As per the SEBI Regulations and terms of the Plan, 
the Promoters and Independent Directors of the 
Company are not entitled to any stock options. The 
key managerial personnel and non-independent 
directors of the Company may be deemed to be 
concerned or interested in the Plan to the extent of 
their respective shareholding or number of options 
that may be granted to them pursuant to the Plan.
e)	
The detailed particulars of benefits which 
will accrue to the employees from the 
implementation of the Plan
	
The eligible Employees shall be granted stock 
options under the Plan which would vest subject 
to vesting conditions. After vesting and on exercise 
of the options, the Trust / Trustees shall transfer 
corresponding number of Equity Shares to the 
Employees at the pre-determined exercise price as 
per the terms of the grant. The Employees would get 
the benefit on sale of shares depending on sale price 
of such shares.
f)	
Details about who would exercise and how 
the voting rights in respect of the shares to be 
purchased or subscribed under the Plan would 
be exercised
	
The voting rights in respect of the shares will be 
exercised by the Employees on transfer of shares by 
the Trust to them upon exercise of the stock options. 
The Trustees of RLL ESOP Trust shall not vote in 
respect of the shares held by the Trust.
	
The draft copy of the Plan and Trust deed are available 
for inspection at the Company’s Registered Office 
during official hours on all working days. Alternately, 
Members may also send their requests to secretarial.
lifestyle@raymond.in from their registered e-mail 
addresses mentioning their names, folio numbers, 
DP ID and Client ID during the voting period.
	
None of the Promoters and Independent Directors 
of the Company and their relatives are concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise in the Resolutions 
stated at Item Nos. 5 to 9. Other Directors and 
Key Managerial Personnel may be deemed to be 
interested in the above resolutions to the extent of 
their respective shareholding in the Company and 
number of options which may be granted to them, if 
any, pursuant to implementation of the Plan.
	
The Board recommends the Special Resolutions set out in 
Item Nos. 5 to 9 of this Notice for approval of Members.
Registered Office:                   By Order of the Board of Directors
Plot No. G-35 and G-36,            For Raymond Lifestyle Limited
MIDC Waluj,
Taluka Gangapur, Chhatrapati
Sambhajinagar - 431136,
Maharashtra
Priti Alkari
May 12, 2025 	
Company Secretary
Mumbai	
Membership No.: FCS 6389
Notice
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
15
ANNEXURE- 1
Additional Information of Director being re-appointed as required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard- 2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India
Name of the Director
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
DIN
00020088
Date of Birth and Age
09/09/1965; 59 years
Date of appointment
07/09/2020
Qualifications
Commerce Graduate
Experience and Expertise
More than three decades of experience in the field of Industry, 
Business, Corporate Management.
Brief Resume
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania took over the reins of Raymond Limited as the 
Chairman & Managing Director in the year 2000. Ever since getting on the chair, 
with his single- minded focus, he has steered the destiny of Raymond Limited 
by making Raymond an internationally reputed fibre to fashion player. With 
over three decades of experience in the field of Industry, Business and Corporate 
Management, he has been at the helm of the affairs and operations of the 
Company along with the Board of Directors. He is involved in multidisciplinary 
functions such as policy planning, formulating vision & strategy and long-
term development activities of the Group. Being instrumental in the business 
expansion plans, the Raymond Group has made expansive and noteworthy 
progress.
Number of meetings of the Board attended 
during the year (FY 2024-25)
6 out of 7
List of Directorship held in all the 
companies
1.	
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
2.	
Raymond Limited
3.	
Raymond Realty Limited
4.	
J.K. Helene Curtis Limited
5.	
J.K. Investo Trade (India) Limited
6.	 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
7.	 JK Files & Engineering Limited
8.	 Avani Agricultural Farms Private Limited
9.	 Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
10.	 Smart Advisory and Finserve Private Limited
11.	 Super Car Club of India Private Limited
12.	 Body Basic Health Care Private Limited
13.	 Raymond (Europe) Limited
14.	 Silver Spark Middle East FZE
15.	 Jaykayorg S.A.
List of Membership / Chairmanship of 
Committees of Board held in all the 
Companies
J.K. Investo Trade (India) Limited
Membership: Audit Committee
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past 3 years
Nil
Shareholding 
in 
Raymond 
Lifestyle 
Limited
23 equity shares
Relationship with other directors manager 
and other Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company
Not related to any other Director or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company
Terms and Conditions of appointment/ 
re-appointment
As 
per 
the 
Nomination, 
Remuneration 
& 
Board 
Diversity 
Policy 
of 
the 
Company 
as 
displayed 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website 
i.e. 
www.raymondlifestyle.com
Details of remuneration last drawn (in FY 
2024-25)
 As mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance
Details of remuneration sought to be paid
As approved by the Shareholders 
Justification for choosing the appointee 
for appointment as Independent Director
Not applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
16
There are 
legacies that 
endure, and 
there are those 
that define their 
era.
Raymond 
Lifestyle 
is a rare 
convergence 
of both.
For over a century, we have been 
custodians of craft, stewards of 
style, and pioneers in India’s journey 
from fibre to fabric to fashion. Each 
decade has refined our purpose. Each 
generation has entrusted us with its 
expression of elegance.
As we turn a historic page and begin our 
first chapter as an independently listed 
entity, we are aware of how we have 
been more than just makers of clothing. 
We have been curators of taste, 
storytellers of style, and custodians of 
India’s sartorial evolution: from thread 
to thought, from fabric to identity.
We have built our reputation not on 
spectacle, but on substance. On a  
solid commitment to excellence. One 
where every weave, every silhouette, 
every innovation carries the imprint  
of discernment.
In an industry when trends come 
and go, we have remained focused 
on offering elegance that transcends 
fleeting fashion and quality that 
continues to resonate with our 
consumers for generations.
This is not merely a celebration of the 
years behind us. It is a statement of 
intent for the years ahead to continue 
crafting with care, to lead with 
conviction, and to honour the principles 
that have made us timeless.
Elegance
Crafted Over
a Century for 
Timeless
Foundations of Purpose
1925
to
1960
Our journey began in 1925 amid the forested landscapes 
of Thane, where we established a modest woollen mill to 
produce coarse fabrics and blankets for the Indian Defence 
Forces. 
Our Journey of 100 Years
A Legacy of 
Excellence:  
The Raymond 
Lifestyle Journey
From modest beginnings to becoming a benchmark in 
sartorial excellence, our journey has been shaped by passion, 
precision, and a quiet pursuit of perfection. Across a hundred 
years, we have evolved with intention while setting standards, 
honouring craftsmanship, and staying true to the values that 
define timeless style.
By 1943, we had grown in stature 
and ambition, enabling us to 
publish our first Annual Report, a 
testament to our evolving scale and 
accountability. 
The following year marked a 
pivotal shift as we joined the 
esteemed J.K. Group under 
the visionary leadership of 
Lala Kailashpat Singhania. 
This ushered in a new era 
of structured growth and 
strategic direction.
A defining milestone followed in 1958 with the 
launch of our first retail store, King’s Corner, at 
Ballard Estate in Mumbai, signifying our transition 
from a manufacturing-led business to a consumer-
facing brand.
In 1946, we took our first step 
in brand-building by placing our 
inaugural print advertisement, 
marking the beginning of a direct 
dialogue with consumers. 
Expansion through Innovation
The 1960s were marked by a strong push towards 
vertical integration and technological leadership. 
In 1964, we introduced Sulzer looms to our 
operations, redefining benchmarks in Indian textile 
manufacturing. That same year, we established 
our Combing Division, enabling the production 
of blended fabrics using cutting-edge global 
processes.
We entered the ready-made garments segment 
in 1966, and in 1967, collaborated with Danish 
specialists to advance our apparel capabilities. 
This also marked our first international venture 
with the formation of Raymond Woollen Mills 
(Kenya) Ltd., laying the foundation for our global 
aspirations.
1960
to
1990
A landmark initiative came in 1972 with the 
launch of a pioneering sheep breeding and 
wool research project in Dhulia, Maharashtra, 
supported by the Australian Government. This 
4,100-hectare initiative introduced Polwarth 
ewes and Merino rams to India and advanced 
techniques such as artificial insemination and 
embryo transfer, leading to the development 
of Gopal Merino Wool. The project ran until 
1982, placing us at the forefront of India’s wool 
industry for over a decade.
Our reach extended further with the creation of J.K. (England) Ltd., and by 
1969, our exports of woollen textiles touched ₹260 Million. That year, we 
received the Award for Outstanding Export Performance – recognition of 
our rising global profile.
In 1986, we launched Park Avenue, India’s first formal wear brand, 
a pioneering move that transformed men’s fashion in the country. 
That same year, our Jalgaon unit commenced operations, producing 
blankets and shawls, strengthening our portfolio of lifestyle offerings.
1990
to
2025
Enduring Legacy
In 2006, we commissioned our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in 
Vapi, a vertically integrated unit for formal wear. This milestone marked 
a major leap in our capabilities, enabling end-to-end production from 
fabric to finished garments under one roof, ensuring superior quality, 
efficiency, and innovation.
Between 2004 and 2016, we led an era of functional innovation with 
breakthroughs like Super 220s, Technosmart, and the iconic Super 
250s — the world’s finest suiting fabric made from 11.4-micron wool. 
Crafted from an exclusive wool lot won in a global auction, only 
sixty suit lengths were produced, setting a new global benchmark in 
luxury. This era also marked our entry in the Greenfield textile plant at 
Amravati.
In 2017, we commissioned a 
Greenfield manufacturing facility 
in Ethiopia under Silver Spark 
PLC, strengthening our global 
supply chain. The following 
year, we inaugurated India’s first 
Greenfield linen manufacturing 
plant in Amravati, reinforcing 
our commitment to integrated 
operations.
As we commemorate our centenary in 2025, we take pride in our 
transformation from a modest mill in Thane to an institution that has 
played a defining role in shaping India’s lifestyle and fashion landscape. 
Our journey has been defined by consistent innovation, a deep 
understanding of consumer aspirations, and a commitment to excellence 
that remains unwavering as we shape how India dresses and lives.
2024 was a 
landmark 
year with the 
successful 
demerger 
and listing 
of Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited, 
reflecting 
investor 
confidence and 
enabling sharper 
strategic focus.
Across the Pages
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports 
01
02
16 The Raymond Values
Our Journey of 100 Years
Crafted Over a Century for Timeless Elegance
Trust
18
36
30
74
78
Quality
Consumer Delight
Innovation
20_Message from the Executive Chairman
24_Message from the Group CFO
28_Our Board of Directors
89_Board’s Report
99_Management Discussion and Analysis 
154_Corporate Governance
Financial Statements 
186_Standalone
280_Consolidated
32_Corporate Overview
34_Financial Snapshot
38_Branded Textile
48_The Raymond Shop
52_Branded Apparel
66_Garmenting
70_High Value Cotton Shirting
76_Digitalisation 
Care
80_Environment
82_Social
86_CSR
88_Governance
Disclaimer
This document contains statements about expected future events and financials of Raymond Lifestyle Limited (the 
Company), which are forward-looking. By their nature, forward-looking statements require the Company to make 
assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. There is a significant risk that the assumptions, 
predictions, and other forward-looking statements may not prove to be accurate. Readers are cautioned not to place undue 
reliance on forward-looking statements as several factors could cause assumptions, actual future results and events to 
differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, this document is subject to the 
disclaimer and qualified in its entirety by the assumptions, qualifications and risk factors referred to in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis section of this Annual Report. Certain Image have been used just for representation purpose only.
Investor Information
Market Capitalisation 
(as on 31st March, 2025) 
:
₹ 6,377 Crores
CIN 
:
L74999MH2018PLC316288
BSE Code
:
544240
NSE Symbol
:
RAYMONDLSL
AGM Date
:
4th August, 2025
AGM Mode
:
Through 
Video Conferencing
For more investor-related information, 
please scan this QR code 
Or visit- https://raymondlifestyle.com/
disclosures/annual_reports
The 
Raymond 
Values – 
Woven 
into Our 
Cultural 
Fabric
A hundred 
years on, the 
principles that 
built Raymond 
remain the ones 
that continue 
to guide us – 
Trust, Quality, 
Innovation, 
Consumer 
Delight, and 
Care. These 
are not just 
ideals; they are 
embedded in 
every product 
we create, every 
experience we 
deliver, and every 
partnership we 
sustain. As one 
of India’s most 
trusted brands 
with global reach, 
we continue 
to uphold the 
highest standards 
of quality while 
investing in 
innovation to 
drive future-ready 
growth.
Trust
	 We are one of India’s most trusted brands with almost 
100% awareness
	 We will continue to strengthen our stakeholder 
relationships built over 100 years
Quality
We are recognised for our high-quality product offerings and 
there will be no compromise on delivering consistent highest 
quality standards
Innovation
	 We have been crafting world-class product offerings over 
the years
	 We will invest behind product and process innovation to 
drive disruptive growth
Consumer Delight
Consumers’ delight is the heart of everything that we do, and 
we strive to continuously excel in it through our products and 
services
Care
	 Our People are our biggest strength, and we nurture and 
invest in our talent
	 We care for our planet, and we will work towards this with 
responsibility and purpose
Trust
Over the course of a century, Raymond 
has cultivated and preserved a 
reputation anchored in trust — a 
foundational principle that has 
underpinned the organisation’s 
conduct, shaped its strategic 
direction, and governed its 
relationships across stakeholder 
groups.
Through independence, 
transformation, liberalisation, and 
reinvention, we have remained 
constant - Reliable, Familiar, and 
Trusted.
For nearly a hundred years, Indians 
have turned to Raymond – not just 
for what they wear, but for what they 
believe in.
In 2024, we achieved a significant 
A word we 
never took 
lightly. A bond 
we never 
broke.
milestone with the public listing of our 
lifestyle business. This event marked 
more than a financial achievement, 
it was a strong endorsement of our 
strategic direction and a reaffirmation 
of stakeholder confidence in our long-
term vision.
Trust, once established, is not a static 
asset but a dynamic responsibility, 
one that demands consistent 
reinforcement through principled 
actions, integrity, and a long-term 
commitment to excellence. As we 
enter our centenary year, we do so 
with a renewed commitment to uphold 
the standards that have defined 
us, and to build on this legacy with 
discipline, responsibility, and purpose 
for the years ahead.
Message from the Executive Chairman
Crafting the Next 
Century of Elegance
Dear Shareholders,
Raymond Group’s journey over the 
past few years has been remarkable. 
From achieving a net debt-free 
status and divesting our FMCG 
business to successfully demerging 
and listing our Lifestyle and Real 
Estate businesses, along with 
acquisition and consolidating our 
Engineering capabilities – we have 
consistently taken strategic steps to 
unlock shareholder value and drive 
sustainable growth.
For Raymond Group, 2024–25 was 
a year that passed with an indelible 
mark. It was a year that honoured our legacy while reshaping our future. It marked a 
decisive inflection point in our century-old journey – where legacy met leadership, 
and heritage embraced reinvention.
Transformation is a constant in any evolving economy - only companies rooted in 
clear natural strengths and convictions have the resilience to evolve, adapt, and 
endure. Over the past 100 years, Raymond Group has been curators of culture, 
enablers of aspiration, and stewards of India’s evolving identity – shaping moments 
that matter and becoming a part of every occasion that defines a generation. From 
crafting the finest fabrics to expanding our portfolio of products and strengthening 
We have evolved into a professionally managed 
organisation, fortified by robust systems, sound values, 
and a vision-driven approach designed to endure with 
grace and integrity across generations.
As we evolve into 
a future-ready 
enterprise, we remain 
committed to the 
highest standards of 
governance,
continued investment 
in manufacturing 
excellence, and 
accelerated 
technology 
adoption to drive 
competitiveness and 
long-term growth.
the ethos of ‘The Complete Man’, we 
continue to redefine men’s fashion, 
proudly occupying a growing share 
of their wardrobes with offerings that 
blend tradition with modernity.
While ambition drives this strategy, 
governance grounds it. Raymond 
Group’s transformation is rooted in 
strong governance and openness 
to change, we remain committed to 
enduring quality over fleeting trends, 
building a legacy that delivers lasting 
value. This reflects a deliberate shift 
toward institutional resilience and 
long-term relevance beyond today’s 
success. We have evolved into a 
professionally managed organisation, 
fortified by robust systems, sound 
values, and a vision-driven approach 
designed to endure with grace and 
integrity across generations.
We believe that leadership, 
especially across generations, must 
be grounded not just in ownership, 
but in accountability. To uphold 
this principle, we have constituted 
a new Board comprising seven 
distinguished independent directors 
whose collective wisdom and diversity 
of thought empower us to lead with 
clarity, conviction, and character. We 
are committed to build companies 
through robust governance, delivering 
strong shareholder returns, and 
creating businesses that endure. 
This is reflected in the successful 
demerger of our Lifestyle Business into 
a focussed and a net debt-free pure-
play listed entity, Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited, positioning us to build with 
sharper intent and greater agility. As we 
embark on our next chapter, we bring 
with us the creativity to envision, the 
discipline to execute, and the courage 
to lead.
Lifestyle 2.0
Reinvention is not an act of 
departure; it is an act of continuity, 
where we carry forward the essence 
of who we are, while embracing what 
we are yet to become.
We are well-prepared for this 
structural shift in consumption, with 
a strategy rooted not just in scale, but 
in sharper focus. As we deepen our 
presence in established markets and 
expand into emerging consumption 
hubs, we stand uniquely positioned 
as a comprehensive clothing 
solutions provider to cater to 
men’s need throughout the day – 
bringing together garments, suiting, 
shirting, wedding attire, ethnic 
wear, sleepwear, and innerwear 
that provide comfort, style, and 
functionality throughout the day.
The foundation of our next phase 
is anchored in a five-year strategic 
roadmap ‘Lifestyle 2.0’. It is a 
clear, purpose-built blueprint for 
transforming our lifestyle business 
into a more agile, future-forward 
enterprise. At its heart are three 
pillars:
	 Strengthening the Core – by 
consolidating our leadership 
position in branded textile. At the 
heart of this transformation is a 
commitment to premiumisation – 
introducing premium collections 
like Exotic and Regio Italia, 
crafted from wool-rich and all-
wool blends with refined Italian 
design sensibilities. The brand is 
expanding its reach across cities 
through asset-light models, while 
enhancing product innovation 
with ceremonial fabrics, multi-
directional stretch blends, and 
fine trousering. Custom tailoring 
services and performance 
textiles further differentiate the 
offering, catering to evolving 
consumer preferences. By 
optimising channel mix and 
deepening engagement through 
digital platforms, Raymond is not 
just consolidating its core – it’s 
redefining the future of Indian 
textiles with sophistication, scale, 
and purpose.
	 Accelerating Growth – by scaling 
our apparel and garmenting 
across both domestic and global 
markets we are making significant 
strides within the sector. We remain 
committed to increasing our retail 
footprint in a caliberated manner 
and are in the process of expanding 
our garmenting capacity.
	 Building New Categories – by 
aggressively expanding our play 
in ethnic wear, innerwear, and 
sleepwear. Ethnix by Raymond 
was launched in response to the 
growing demand for premium, 
curated ethnic wear in India’s 
evolving wedding and ceremonial 
space. In a largely unorganised 
category, Ethnix by Raymond 
stands out for its design strength, 
brand trust, and ability to meet 
both traditional and contemporary 
preferences. Aligned with our goal 
of occupying a larger share of the 
Indian man’s wardrobe, we also 
entered new categories with clarity 
and intent. SleepZ by Raymond 
brings structure to the fragmented 
sleepwear segment, while Park 
Avenue Innerwear extends a trusted 
brand into a high-demand space 
with a focus on comfort, quality, 
and retail efficiency. A landmark 
moment in our centenary year was 
the launch of The Chairman’s 
Collection – an apex in Indian 
menswear. Meticulously crafted 
using premium fabrics such as 
Giza and Supima cottons, this 
limited-edition line stands as 
a bold expression of intent. It 
reflects Raymond’s commitment 
to championing India’s heritage 
of craftsmanship while redefining 
luxury. With this collection, 
Raymond steps confidently into the 
global luxury space - showcasing 
Indian design, elegance, and 
excellence on the world stage 
with the dignity and confidence it 
deserves.
While our vision for transformation 
remains bold and future-focussed, 
we are acutely aware of the current 
market realities that demand 
resilience and agility. 2024–25 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
20
21
presented a complex operating 
landscape, marked by subdued 
consumer demand, prolonged heat 
waves, general elections, fewer 
wedding dates, inflationary pressures 
and broader macroeconomic 
headwinds that tempered 
performance across key verticals. 
As we enter 2025–26, our strategic 
priorities are clear and deliberate. 
We will double down on disciplined 
growth by consolidating our core 
operations, streamlining processes, 
and sharpening execution across 
business units. A key thrust will be on 
enhancing productivity within our 
existing retail network – leveraging 
data-driven insights, optimising store 
formats, and improving channel 
mix to drive higher throughput and 
profitability.
This phase of our journey is not 
just about recovery – it’s about 
recalibration. We aim to:
	 Strengthen operational resilience 
through robust governance and 
cybersecurity frameworks
	 Deepen consumer engagement by 
refining product assortments and 
elevating in-store experiences
	 Maximise retail efficiency by 
unlocking latent potential across 
our stores
	 Maintain fiscal prudence while 
investing selectively in high-return 
growth opportunities
The Momentum of a Nation 
in Motion
Despite global uncertainty, India 
remains one of the fastest-growing 
major economies, poised to become 
the world’s fourth largest with GDP 
growth of 6.5% in 2024–25. This 
momentum is driven by robust 
domestic consumption, a young 
and aspirational population, 
formalisation of the economy, 
and sustained infrastructure 
development. India today stands at 
a unique crossroads where global 
opportunity intersects with domestic 
dynamism. As global supply chains 
diversify under the ‘China Plus 
One’ strategy, India has emerged 
as a natural destination, offering 
unmatched scale, abundant talent, 
and a reform-friendly ecosystem. 
Even small shifts in global garment 
sourcing, such as the U.S. importing 
18 Million garments annually, present 
significant opportunities for India’s 
manufacturing exports. 
The retail sector mirrors this 
transformation. Contributing nearly 
10% to GDP and employing close 
to 8% of the workforce, Indian 
retail is evolving from an informal, 
fragmented sector into an organised, 
digital, and aspirational engine of 
growth. For Raymond, the evolving 
retail landscape presents not just 
a significant opportunity–but a 
profound responsibility. As formal 
retail penetration accelerates, 
particularly in underrepresented 
programmes that nurture responsible 
young citizens. By fostering academic 
excellence and holistic development, 
we reaffirm our belief that 
empowered minds are the foundation 
of a self-reliant and globally 
competitive Bharat.
Raymond’s century-long journey 
has been marked by resilience, 
ambition, and a deep bond with its 
people—shareholders, employees, 
and customers. Through every 
challenge, the Group has moved 
forward with purpose, building a bold 
identity rooted in trust and excellence. 
As we step into a new century, our 
commitment remains unwavering: 
to drive growth, expand strategically, 
and play a meaningful role in nation-
building. With every new beginning, 
we aim to strengthen our legacy and 
proudly contribute to the evolving 
story of India.
Going forward, Raymond 2.0 
will be anchored on these three 
powerful pillars that will define 
our future: Lifestyle, Real Estate, 
and Engineering. Our disciplined 
approach to capital allocation, 
markets, there is a growing appetite 
for trusted, homegrown brands that 
reflect the aspirations of a new India. 
As India embraces transformational 
change under Prime Minister 
Narendra Modi’s Viksit Bharat 2047 
vision - a comprehensive roadmap 
to become a fully developed nation 
by its centenary of independence 
– Raymond 2.0 emerges as a 
bold testament to progress. This 
pivotal moment in our evolution 
marks the reinvention of our iconic 
100-year-old brand into a modern, 
purpose-driven enterprise, deeply 
aligned with the nation’s aspirations. 
It’s a collective commitment to 
building a modern, self-reliant, 
and globally competitive India. 
Anchored in this collective aspiration, 
Raymond Group’s Lifestyle, Realty 
and Engineering businesses 
emerge not merely as business 
verticals—but as an embodiment of 
our commitment to nation-building. 
With a focus on delivering fabrics 
and homes that harmoniously blend 
affordability, aspirational living, and 
world-class quality. Complementing 
this, our Engineering division powers 
industrial innovation—producing 
precision components that support 
critical sectors from automotive to 
aerospace, helping strengthen India’s 
manufacturing excellence. Through 
this multifaceted endeavour, we 
contribute meaningfully to the Viksit 
Bharat 2047 mission—ensuring 
that every citizen has access to 
dignified clothing, shelter, vibrant 
communities, and the opportunity 
to thrive. 
Equally, we recognise that true 
progress begins with education. 
As part of our broader commitment 
A landmark moment in our centenary year was the 
launch of The Chairman’s Collection – an apex in Indian 
menswear. Meticulously crafted using premium fabrics 
such as Giza and Supima cottons, this limited-edition line 
stands as a bold expression of intent.
combined with our strategic assets 
and deep understanding of the Indian 
consumer positions us to deliver 
sustainable returns. As we evolve into 
a future-ready enterprise, we remain 
committed to the highest standards 
of governance, continued investment 
in manufacturing excellence, and 
accelerated technology adoption to 
drive competitiveness and long-term 
growth. These focus areas form the 
foundation of our vision—to lead 
with purpose, driven by performance, 
innovation, and enduring value 
creation.
Warm regards, 
Gautam Hari Singhania 
Executive Chairman,  
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
As India embraces 
transformational change 
under Prime Minister 
Narendra Modi’s Viksit 
Bharat 2047 vision, 
a comprehensive 
roadmap to become a 
fully developed nation 
by its centenary of 
independence, Raymond 
2.0 emerges as a bold 
testament to progress. 
to nation-building, we continue to 
invest in nurturing future citizens 
through the expansion of Singhania 
Schools, setting an ambitious target 
to educate over one lakh children 
across India. As a part of our CSR 
initiatives, we are empowering 
over 5,000 lives through focussed 
partnerships in health and education, 
supporting life-saving paediatric 
heart surgeries, cancer rehabilitation, 
holistic childcare for young cancer 
patients, school infrastructure 
upgrades, and citizenship education 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
22
23
On 5th September, 
2024, we 
marked a major 
milestone:
Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited 
began its journey 
as a net debt-free, 
demerged, and 
independently 
listed entity.
Message from the Group CFO
Honouring Our Legacy, 
Embracing the Future
Let me begin by thanking you for your 
continued trust and support, especially 
in a year as defining as this one. On 
5th September, 2024, we marked a 
major milestone: Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited began its journey as a net debt-
free, demerged, and independently 
listed entity. As we embarked upon 
this transformation, our intent was 
clear: to honour the legacy we are 
carrying forward while laying down the 
foundations of a more agile, future-
ready organisation.
Building the Core with 
Purpose
The year was about more than 
structural shift; the transition 
demanded that we look inward – not 
just to reorganise, but to transform. 
We approached this period with 
rigorous focus – optimising efficiencies, 
recalibrating priorities, and ensuring 
every decision was anchored in 
purpose and long-term value rather 
than transient sentiment. The goal 
was clear: to fortify our foundations 
while unlocking value from enduring 
strengths and emerging opportunities. 
This strategic coherence underpins 
our financial discipline and growth 
ambitions.
Navigating a Volatile 
Landscape
The year 2024–25 presented significant 
challenges with subdued consumer 
sentiment, elevated inflation driven by 
rising food and fuel prices, and global 
uncertainties impacting markets. 
Despite India’s strong GDP growth 
estimated at around 6.5%, consumer 
spending remained weak due to lower 
capital expenditure and cautious 
household behaviour prioritising 
essentials over discretionary items. 
Seasonal factors and a tough retail 
environment further dampened 
demand. However, India’s unique 
position amid global shifts, coupled 
with favourable measures in the 
2025–26 Union Budget such as tax 
cuts benefiting urban and middle-
class households are expected to 
boost purchasing power and support 
growth in segments like mid-income 
housing.
Against this backdrop, we responded 
decisively, prioritising continued 
investments in new EBOs, garmenting 
capacity, digital transformation, and 
brand equity. Importantly, we chose 
not to pass on certain input cost 
increases amid a sensitive pricing 
environment – underscoring our 
consumer-centric approach.
This financial year tested us with 
high inflation and muted consumer 
demand, which impacted both our 
revenue trajectory and margins, 
causing a degree of deleveraging. 
Additionally, we encountered 
unforeseen disruptions, including 
a ransomware attack. Our IT team 
with the support of cybersecurity 
experts, restored back normalcy of 
the operations, underscoring our 
resilience. This experience reinforced 
that sharper execution, financial 
agility, and disciplined capital 
allocation will be increasingly vital for 
future progress.
Steady Execution Amid 
Operational Pressures
In our Core Branded Textile segment, 
we maintained rigorous focus on 
premiumisation, innovation, and 
operational excellence. Though 
revenues declined due to soft 
consumer demand and high inflation, 
this segment sustained its growth 
momentum. Encouragingly, early 
signs indicate positive momentum for 
the upcoming autumn-winter 2025 
collection.
Our deliberate expansion into 
ceremonial fabrics, with over 150 
ethnic-inspired designs, reflects a 
nuanced understanding of evolving 
preferences in occasion-led tailoring. 
Recognising the importance of 
weddings and celebrations, we 
are enhancing our portfolio by 
developing high-potential fabric 
blends, reinforcing our mass-
premium offerings, and investing in 
digital commerce and design agility 
to stay closely aligned with evolving 
consumer tastes.
In Branded Apparel, while profitability 
was tempered by upfront retail 
expansion costs, elevated advertising 
spends, and adverse channel mix, 
resilience was evident in select brands 
and stores.
Park Avenue (PA) continued its 
repositioning as a hybrid formal-
casual brand, while Raymond Ready 
to Wear (RR) and Color Plus (CP) saw 
early traction from investments in 
distribution and brand awareness. 
Our strategic priorities here remained 
centred around casualisation, 
With 20+ new clients added across key global markets, the garmenting business is serving 
global retailers across the US, UK, Europe and Japan.
Dear Shareholders,
As Raymond Lifestyle marks 100 years 
of excellence, this moment serves 
as a graceful confluence of legacy 
and vision, honouring all that has 
been, while embracing all that lies 
ahead. It is an immense privilege to 
steward a legacy that has indelibly 
shaped the Indian fashion and lifestyle 
industry, coupled with the profound 
responsibility to architect its future 
trajectory.
While our heritage anchors us, it is our 
forward-looking mindset that propel 
us. Our investments today are targeted 
not just at efficiency and profitability, 
but at innovation, sustainability, and 
global competitiveness – the pillars 
that will define our next century.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
24
25
expanded reach and enhanced store 
efficiency.
Ethnix by Raymond, our ethnic 
wear brand, continued to gain 
traction, expanding to over 150 
operational stores, with a net 
addition of 35 stores. The carefully 
curated portfolio caters to a broad 
spectrum of celebratory occasions, 
from traditional sherwanis and 
bandhgalas to contemporary 
ethnic separates for diverse events, 
representing a significant growth 
multiplier.
We also launched SleepZ, 
targeting the largely unorganised 
men’s sleepwear segment with a 
structured, quality-focussed product 
line at an affordable price. Early 
adoption is promising, supported by 
60+ distributors and an expanding 
multi-brand retail presence. Further 
diversifying, Park Avenue Innerwear 
was introduced to meet lifestyle-
driven demands across daily wear, 
activewear, and luxe essentials, 
positioned from premium to mass-
premium segments.
We remain committed to our retail 
expansion strategy, resulting in 
the opening of 170 new stores 
during 2024–25 reaching a total 
of 1,688 stores. This growth is 
continuing through a franchise-led, 
asset-light model, complemented 
by measured store optimisation 
and productivity improvements via 
focussed cost management and 
curated assortments, reflecting 
a calibrated, thoughtful growth 
philosophy.
The Garmenting segment faced 
macroeconomic headwinds, 
increased training costs and 
underutilisation of capacity, which 
impacted short-term profitability. 
However, ongoing investments 
in capacity expansion, workforce 
training, and supply chain 
integration position the business 
well for steady, sustainable growth 
over the longer term.
With 20+ new clients added across 
key global markets, the garmenting 
business is serving global retailers 
across the US, UK, Europe and 
Japan. We continue to benefit 
from evolving global sourcing 
trends – particularly the ‘China 
Plus One’ shift and favourable 
trade agreements with markets 
like the US and UK are expected 
to enhance competitiveness. 
Further, our vertically integrated 
supply chain, which enables 
seamless conversion from fabric to 
garment, provides us with a distinct 
advantage and aligns tightly with 
our growth aspirations to be 
among the world’s top three suit 
manufacturers.
In the High-Value Cotton Shirting 
segment, our linen shirting range 
maintained strong demand, 
underscoring continued customer 
interest. Although revenue showed 
growth in the first half of the year 
driven by robust B2B domestic 
fabric sales, it softened in the 
latter half with EBITDA margins 
fluctuating throughout the 2024–25.
Performance of the Year
Despite a subdued demand 
environment, 2024–25 was 
marked by disciplined execution 
and a future-focussed financial 
strategy. Our total income stood at 
₹ 6,360 Crores, and we delivered 
an EBITDA of ₹ 651 Crores, with an 
EBITDA margin of 10.2%. While our 
operating margin was impacted by 
soft consumer sentiment, upfront 
growth investments, and adverse 
segment mix, we continued to focus 
on strengthening our foundation and 
maintained a sharp focus on working 
capital efficiency. Our decision to 
ensure freshness in the inventory 
and build it ahead of the festive 
and wedding season, to ensure we 
were demand-ready. As a result, 
we closed the year with a net cash 
position of ₹ 90 Crores, supported by 
tight controls over receivables and 
inventory. 
Looking Ahead
Our journey ahead is about bold, 
focussed growth—where every step 
is measured, every decision strategic, 
and every success a testament to 
Raymond’s enduring legacy and future 
ambition.
Moving Forward, Our 
Priorities are Sharply 
Defined:
	 Reinforce leadership position 
in core categories through 
continuous innovation and tighter 
integration.
	 Scale high-potential businesses 
across apparel, garmenting, and 
new categories with discipline 
and agility.
	 Embed governance, sustainability, 
and capital discipline at the heart 
of every growth aspect.
With your trust, we will not only 
continue to honour the iconic Raymond 
legacy but also forge a bold future, 
preserving its appeal as a timeless, 
elegant brand for generations ahead.
Warm regards, 
Amit Agarwal 
Group Chief Financial Officer
We closed the year 
with a net cash 
position of ₹ 90 
Crores, supported 
by tight controls 
over receivables and 
inventory.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
26
27
Our Board  
of Directors
Our newly formed Board of Directors reflects a deep alignment with Raymond 
Lifestyle’s values and future direction. Their role is instrumental in ensuring that our 
evolution is anchored in transparency, accountability, and long-term value. With their 
guidance, we are strengthening the foundations of an institution built to stand strong 
and be future-ready.
Executive Chairman
Mr. Gautam Singhania
Mr. Vineet Nayar
Independent Director 
Ex-Director, NSE, ONGC, LIC & UTI
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
Independent Director
Strategic Advisor World Bank
Ms. Anisha Motwani
Independent Director 
Over 50 years of diverse industry experience
Mr. Dinesh Lal
Independent Director 
Ex-CEO Coats
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
Independent Director 
Chief Promoter & CMD LKP Finance
Mr. Mahendra V Doshi
Independent Director
Ex-Chairman, ICICI, NSE & PFRDA
Mr. Girish C Chaturvedi
Independent Director
Ex-CEO, HCL
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
28
29
Quality
At Raymond Lifestyle, quality has 
never been a feature. It has always 
been a way of being.
From the purity of Merino wool in our 
worsted suiting to the breathability 
of cotton-rich shirting, every product 
begins with a choice. The choice of 
fibre, of process, of principle. And 
behind that choice lies discipline, 
precision, and a deep respect for the 
craft.
Our manufacturing philosophy 
blends the best of both worlds. At our 
facilities across India, laser-guided 
precision complements the skilled 
hands of experienced artisans. 
Automation here is not a substitute 
for skill, but a means to elevate and 
refine it.
Each fabric is tested across more 
than 20 parameters, from tensile 
Not just a 
finishing 
touch. 
It is the 
foundation. 
strength to drape and colour fastness 
to pilling. This helps us ensure that 
what reaches the consumer is not 
only flawless, but consistent as 
well. Because quality is not about 
a moment. It is about showing up 
the same way, every time. But our 
commitment to quality is more than 
technical. It is personal.
It is in the pride of the groom, the 
confidence of the graduate, the 
comfort of the everyday. It is in the 
assurance that when you choose 
Raymond, you choose something 
made with care, made to last, and 
made to mean something.
To us, quality is not just a standard.
It is our signature!
Corporate Overview
Raymond 
Since 1925 
With a century behind, 
Raymond Lifestyle is 
stepping into the next 
phase of growth, building 
on a strong foundation of 
industry leadership and 
operational excellence. 
As a prominent player in 
India’s Fashion and Retail 
sector, the business is 
distinguished by a portfolio 
of iconic men’s fashion 
brands and a widespread, 
integrated retail presence. 
The product range 
encompasses formal, 
casual, and ethnic wear, 
offered through high-
quality textiles and ready-
to-wear garments, all 
delivered with a consistent 
focus on craftsmanship, 
precision, and brand 
integrity. As we enter a 
new chapter, we remain 
committed to inspiring 
and enabling every man 
to express himself with 
elegance and confidence 
– true to our enduring 
motive of shaping The 
Complete Man.
Our Presence, Our Strength.
We have built a strong and expansive presence, bringing our legacy of 
craftsmanship and innovation closer to consumers across the country and beyond. 
From bustling metros to emerging markets, our retail network ensures that style, 
quality, and sophistication are always within reach. With every store and every 
touchpoint, we continue to strengthen our connection with customers, redefining 
the fashion retail experience.
National Presence
International Presence
Vision
To be the leading Fashion & Lifestyle company 
with loved brands, fashion-first approach and 
a delightful consumer experience to deliver 
superior stakeholder value.
Export to 90+
Countries
46
Stores across 6 countries
1,688
Retailing stores
10
Plants
4
Global offices
1
Plant
Disclaimer: This map is a generalised illustration only for the ease of the reader to understand the 
locations, and is not intended to be used for reference purposes. The representation of political boundaries 
and the names of geographical features/states do not necessarily reflect the actual position. The Company 
or any of its Directors, officers or employees cannot be held responsible for any misuse or misinterpretation 
of any information or design thereof.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
32
33
Financial Snapshot
The year 2024 – 25 
marked a defining phase 
for Raymond Lifestyle 
as we embarked on 
a new chapter as an 
independent entity 
following the demerger. 
This period of strategic 
transition was shaped 
by a complex external 
environment marked by 
inflationary headwinds, 
subdued consumer 
sentiment, and 
unforeseen operational 
disruptions. While these 
challenges weighed on 
short-term performance, 
they also reinforced the 
resilience of our business 
model and the relevance 
of our brands. Despite 
this, we remained 
focused on long-term 
priorities – strengthening 
brand equity, and building 
organisational capability 
to drive sustainable 
growth.
3,450
FY 2023-24
1,035
FY 2023-24
1,587
FY 2023-24
830
FY 2023-24
3,364
FY 2022-23
1,000
FY 2022-23
1,328
FY 2022-23
762
FY 2022-23
2,789
FY 2021-22
629
FY 2021-22
891
FY 2021-22
572
FY 2021-22
1,572
FY 2020-21
482
FY 2020-21
457
FY 2020-21
258
FY 2020-21
3,002
FY 2024-25
1,068
FY 2024-25
1,593
FY 2024-25
800
FY 2024-25
Revenue from Operations 	
(`in Crores)
EBITDA Margin  
(in %)
EBITDA 
(`in Crores)
Branded Textile  
Sales (`in Crores) 
EBITDA Margin (%) 
Garmenting  
Sales (`in Crores) 
EBITDA Margin (%) 
Branded Apparel  
Sales (`in Crores) 
EBITDA Margin (%) 
High Value Cotton Shirting 
Sales (`in Crores) 
EBITDA Margin (%) 
PAT* 
(`in Crores)
6,360
651
6,690
1,091 
FY 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
10.2%
38
16.3%
480
FY 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
PAT Margin  
(in %)
0.6%
7.2%
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Segmental Sales & EBITDA Margin (%)
10.4
3.2%
00
1.6%
17.6
6.5%
4.8
10.5%
20.9
7.9%
10.8
11.1%
20.9
10.1%
11.9
11.4%
14.0
4.7%
7.4
14.3%
2024–25 Segment-wise Sales Contribution
35
45%
25%
17%
13%
	
Branded Textile
	
Branded Apparel
	
Garmenting
	
High Value Cotton Shirting
Sales (in %)
*Post Exceptions
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
34
35
Consumer Delight
In India, where milestones are woven 
with tradition and emotion, we are 
honoured to be part of stories that 
span across generations. The enduring 
association of Raymond with life’s 
most significant occasions is reflected 
in the widely held sentiment that no 
wedding is complete without it — a 
testament to the brand’s deep cultural 
relevance and the legacy it has 
consistently upheld over generations.
From the elegance of a Sherwani, 
a custom Bandhgala to the region-
specific silhouettes like the Veshti 
or Dhoti, our ceremonial offerings 
are rooted in India’s rich culture and 
tailored with care. Through Ethnix and 
Made-to-Measure, we bring together 
heritage and personalisation, ensuring 
every customer feels celebrated.
But the Raymond experience extends 
far beyond the celebration aisle. Our 
apparel brands cater to every aspect 
of contemporary life from workwear to 
With millions 
of Indians 
making 
Raymond a 
part of their 
celebrations 
we ensure 
consumer 
delight through 
our products 
and retail 
experiences.
weekend casuals, festive collections, 
and travel essentials. From curated 
wardrobes to core essentials like 
innerwear and loungewear, our 
offerings are designed around real 
lives and evolving preferences.
Across every format – exclusive stores, 
digital platforms, personalised styling, 
or bespoke tailoring, our commitment 
is constant. The commitment to 
understand the consumer, serve with 
integrity, and deliver moments of ease, 
elegance, and joy.
At Raymond, we believe consumer 
satisfaction goes beyond delivering a 
flawless fit, it is about being present 
in the moments that matter — 
providing comfort, creating a sense 
of connection, and instilling quiet 
confidence through every product we 
offer.
And that makes us not just a brand of 
choice, but a brand for life!
38
Our Journey in Numbers 
(as of FY 2024–25)
Branded Textile 
The Genesis of Excellence
In 1925, as colonial imports 
dominated India’s textile landscape, 
Albert Raymond laid the foundation 
for a mill by the creek in Thane with 
a clear purpose – to create a high-
quality Indian alternative in a market 
led by British goods. Raymond 
Woollen Mill was established with 
a clear focus on quality and self-
reliance, rather than on achieving 
scale. 
The initial years were challenging, 
as we competed with established 
players. But in 1944, a new chapter 
began under the visionary leadership 
of Lala Kailashpat Singhania. With 
modern machinery, trained artisans, 
and an undeterred focus on quality, 
Raymond began its transformation. 
Post-independence, as the country 
found its independent identity, 
so did we. Raymond’s fine suiting 
fabrics represented the perfect 
blend of wool’s natural softness and 
polyester’s durability, enabling us to 
make aspirational fashion accessible 
to a generation transitioning into 
modernity. By the 1990s, Raymond 
had become more than a textile 
brand, it had established itself as a 
cultural icon. Our campaign, ‘The 
Complete Man,’ stood as a reflection 
of our values – grounded, refined, and 
distinctly Raymond.
Today, we are one of the world’s 
largest integrated manufacturer 
of worsted suiting fabric, with a 
capacity of 43 Million Metres of total 
Suiting Fabric. Our reach spans more 
than 600 Indian cities and towns, 
1925
supported by a network of 20,000+ 
touchpoints – a true reflection of our 
enduring relationship with the Indian 
consumer.
Our textile legacy is now expressed 
across four dynamic verticals 
of Suiting, Shirting, Made-to-
Measure, and Home Furnishing. 
From performance-driven fabrics 
for modern professionals to AI-
personalised bespoke garments and 
thoughtfully curated home décor, we 
continue to blend craftsmanship with 
innovation at every touchpoint.
Branded Textile was the foundation 
upon which the Raymond legacy 
was built, and it continues to remain 
integral to our strategic identity. Nearly 
a century since inception, it embodies 
the principles that have defined 
our organisation — a rich heritage, 
technical excellence, continuous 
evolution, and a strong alignment with 
national progress.
~43 Million Metres 
Total suiting fabric
 2,500+ 
Home Furnishing retail 
touchpoints across major cities
3 Decades 
Export leadership in worsted 
fabrics
600+ 
Cities and towns reached across 
India
20,000+ 
Touchpoints to ensure pan-India 
reach
Capacity
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
38
39
Highlights of the Year
Suiting
	
Stable and consistent growth 
in worsted product portfolio 
leveraging high impact product 
innovations ensuring competitive 
advantage
	
Captured positive booking trends 
for Autumn/Winter 2025–26, 
signalling continued growth in 
premium suiting
	
Launched the Bello Italiano 
collection, reinforcing premium 
positioning with exclusive 
Italian fabrics for high-net-worth 
individuals
	
Entered the ceremonial fabric 
segment, catering to the growing 
Indian wedding wear market
Made-to-Measure (MTM)
	
Expanded the MTM retail footprint 
to 50+ stores across 30+ cities, 
offering premium personalised 
apparel solutions
	
Measurements are taken by 
trained professionals using a 
structured, time-tested process; 
this ensures high accuracy and 
contributes to Raymond MTM’s 
strong First Time Right (FTR) 
performance, reducing the need 
for alterations
Home Furnishing
	
Grew by over 20% YoY, driven by 
bed linen and coordinated home 
décor
	
Built a lifestyle-oriented brand 
identity in the home furnishings 
space, increasing consumer 
awareness
Strengths
	
A robust manufacturing ecosystem 
across Vapi, Chindwara, and 
Jalgaon, ensuring complete 
control over the value chain and 
enabling backward integration 
to enhance product quality and 
efficiency
	
Raymond Lifestyle continues to 
hold a dominant position in the 
domestic suiting market with 
a broad portfolio that includes 
super-fine wool, poly-viscose, 
wool blends, cotton, linen and 
high-performance fabrics
	
Proprietary fabric technologies 
like TechnoSmart, AirTech, and 
wrinkle-resistant wool, ensure a 
superior personalised fit
	
Strong brick-and-mortar presence 
paired with digital commerce 
platforms and hybrid engagement 
tools, ensuring wide access, even 
in emerging markets and towns
	
Raymond Fine Fabrics, Raymond 
Premium, and Made-to-Measure 
(MTM) have established strong 
brand equity and deep-rooted 
consumer loyalty across 
generations, while Raymond 
Home continues to strengthen its 
positioning as a lifestyle-oriented 
brand with growing market 
relevance
	
Continued investments in 
backward integration to 
maintain flexibility, faster time to 
market, and better cost control, 
particularly across core segments
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
40
41
Challenges
	
Increased shift towards smart casual and relaxed attire, especially among 
younger consumers, impacting traditional suiting formats
	
Keeping up with seasonal preferences and fast-evolving design trends requires 
greater agility in design-to-market capabilities
	
Limited presence in the mass-market cotton shirting segment priced between 
₹200–500, where competitors have a stronger foothold
	
The shift to digital in consumer retail experiences demands faster adaptation 
and increased investment in tech infrastructure for seamless omni-channel 
strategies
	
Consumer awareness and acceptance for Home Furnishing are at an early 
stage, requiring sustained efforts to build mindshare and establish a premium, 
lifestyle-oriented brand identity
Way Forward
	
Focus on fabric blends suitable for multiple occasions (e.g., lightweight travel 
suits, stretch suits, jacket separates) and position offerings through lifestyle-
driven storytelling
	
Reinforce leadership in the wedding wear segment by expanding seasonal 
collections, bridal trousseau collaborations, and tailored ceremonies, targeting 
key consumer segments
	
Expand cotton range especially in the mass premium to gain market share and 
further strengthening premium range
	
Build upon India’s advantage as a textile hub to grow exports of premium wool 
blends and shirting fabrics to key international markets, especially Middle East, 
South Asia, and Europe
	
Leverage omni-channel booking engines, concierge home services in key 
cities, and digital catalogues to scale the MTM experience, targeting urban 
professionals and aspirational Gen Z segments
	
Launch coordinated collections of bed linen, cushions, and curtains under 
common themes, using TRS and select multi-brand outlets as experience zones
	
Extend usage of recycled fibres, zero-liquid discharge technologies, and solar 
energy across plants; incorporate product-level sustainability claims and 
traceability labels
Sales 
(`in Crores)
Sales Volume (Million Metres p.a.)
EBITDA 
(`in Crores)
3,002
54
16
420
3,450
59
20
721
FY 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
Segmental Performance
Suiting*
*Includes gifting solutions 
(Suiting and Shirting fabric)
B2C Shirting
Product Mix  
(in %)
Channel Mix  
(in %)
	
Suiting
	
B2C Shirting
	
Others
EBITDA Margin 
(in %)
20.9%
14.0%
23%
34%
15%
28%
81%
17%
2%
	
Wholesale
	
TRS
	
MBO
	
Others
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
42
43
Suiting
Shirting
Elegance for Every Occasion
Elevating Everyday Fashion
We are one of the largest vertically and 
horizontally integrated manufacturers 
of worsted suiting fabric globally, and 
the leader here in India. Our advanced 
fabric manufacturing plants in Vapi, 
Chhindwara, and Jalgaon give us an 
aggregate capacity of approximately 
43 Million Meters of suiting fabric, 
allowing us to work with everything 
from pure wool to poly-wool, silk, 
and other premium blends. Marketed 
under the brand ‘Raymond Fine 
Fabrics’, we are proud to be among 
the most preferred brands in the 
Textile sector. Starting as a woollen 
blanket manufacturer, we transitioned 
to worsted fabrics, and invested in 
retail, branding, and distribution.
Strategic Edge
	
Market leader with over 65% share 
in the branded suiting segment
	
Product spectrum from Super 80s 
to Super 250s, including innovative 
blends like wool-silk, bamboo-
viscose
	
Core suiting range is manufactured 
at Vapi and Chhindwara plants, 
known for their precision dyeing 
and finishing capabilities
	
‘TechnoSmart’ range with wrinkle-
resistance, breathability and UV 
protection – appealing to the 
urban, on-the-move customer
	
Trusted supplier to global retail 
brands in North America, Europe 
and the Middle East
	
Creating communication 
strategies to position Raymond as 
the preferred brand for wedding 
and occasion wear, with a core 
focus on suits, while also investing 
in building the Ready-To-Stitch 
(RTS) category through our ‘Why 
Stitch’ and ‘Benefit of Stitching’ 
campaigns
Our entry into shirting began with 
outsourced production, but since 
2005-06, we have developed robust 
in-house capabilities. Today, we are 
the market leader in B2C cotton 
shirting and a strong position in linen 
shirting. Our state-of-the-art linen 
manufacturing facility in Amravati and 
Kolhapur has further strengthened 
our position in the premium segment. 
We continue to expand our shirting 
portfolio with a sharp focus on product 
innovation, fabric quality, and evolving 
consumer needs.
Strategic Edge
	
Integrated operations from fibre to 
finished fabric, making Raymond 
self-reliant in cotton shirting at 
Amravati and Kolhapur
	
Annual capacity of 28+ Million 
Meters, focussing on cotton, linen 
and blended shirting fabrics
	
Linen collections gaining 
momentum, particularly in 
Southern and Western India
	
Increase of special finishes like 
anti-microbial, stretch, wrinkle 
resist, and spill resist shirting 
being supplied in OTC channels
	
Targeted retail push through MBOs, 
TRS and wholesale channels with 
attractive entry-level SKUs
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
44
45
Made-to-Measure (MTM) 
Home Furnishing
Personalisation Meets 
Precision
Elevating Living Spaces with 
Innovation & Elegance
Raymond Made to Measure is 
our premium offering that allows 
customers to personalise their 
garments, whether suits, jackets, or 
shirts, with precision. The process 
involves selection of fabrics and 
styles, expert consultation, detailed 
body measurements, and fittings 
to ensure a perfect silhouette. Our 
fashion advisors and master tailors 
work closely with each customer to 
deliver garments that reflect their 
individual style and fit. By offering 
machine-stitched, CAD-assisted 
personalised garments, MTM ensures 
consistency, quality, and a seamless 
customer experience, reinforcing 
Raymond’s leadership in customised 
apparel.
Strategic Edge
	
Established 50+ MTM stores that 
are operational across metros and 
emerging urban centres
	
Enabled a technology driven 
model with CAD/CAM, laser 
cutting, and fast track express 
delivery in 5 days
	
Extended product offerings beyond 
suits – including shirts, chinos, 
jackets and ethnic sets
	
Strengthened aspirational 
positioning supported by Luxury 
Concierge Service for HNIs and 
wedding clientele
Raymond Home is a contemporary 
home linen brand that offers a 
premium range of bedsheets, towels, 
and comforters. Since its launch in 
2013, it has emerged as one of India’s 
leading brands redefining home textile 
products. Our extensive portfolio 
includes aprons, napkins, table linen, 
diwan sets, and readymade curtains, 
in addition to quilts, blankets, and 
bathrobes. With a variety of patterns, 
shades, and natural themes, we cater 
to diverse design sensibilities – be 
it minimalistic or bold – enabling 
consumers to transform their living 
spaces with style and comfort.
Strategic Edge
	
Expanded product portfolio 
to include bed linen, curtains, 
cushion covers, towels, rugs, and 
comforters
	
Introduced niche offerings such 
as cooling pillows, anti-allergen 
bedsheets, and premium cotton 
towels
	
Established presence across TRS 
stores, Raymond Home outlets, 
and large-format retail chains like 
Shoppers Stop and HomeStop
	
Focussed on building Raymond 
Home as a lifestyle brand, not just 
a product range, with coordinated 
collections and style themes
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
46
47
In 1958, Raymond took a bold 
leap. Sensing a shift in consumer 
aspirations, we opened our first 
exclusive showroom at King’s Corner 
in Mumbai. It represented a first-
of-its-kind retail format, designed 
to consolidate the entire Raymond 
portfolio under one roof, thereby 
offering a seamless and elevated 
brand experience to consumers.
Driven by a strategic vision to enhance 
consumer accessibility and brand 
presence, The Raymond Shop has, 
over the decades, expanded into the 
1958
Powering Raymond’s Retail Engine
48
largest network of exclusive brand 
outlets in India’s textiles and apparel 
industry. It is a space where heritage 
meets modernity, and generations find 
something of their own.
With over 1,050 stores across the 
country, it is expanding into metros 
and Tier 2 and 3 cities.
Today, every Raymond Shop is more 
than just a retail outlet. It represents 
a trusted brand and a destination for 
quality and timeless style.
The Raymond Shop
1,050+
The Raymond Shop (TRS) across the 
country
Our Journey in Numbers 
(as of FY 2024–25)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
48
49
Highlights of the Year
	
Maintained a strong nationwide 
footprint with 1,098 stores, 
reinforcing our position as the 
largest exclusive brand outlet 
network in India’s textile and 
apparel sector
	
Strengthened independent identity 
for shirting, moving beyond its 
association with suiting, supported 
by visual merchandising upgrades 
and direct marketing
Strengths
	
Offers a complete product 
spectrum, from suiting fabrics to 
shirting and readymade apparel, 
under one cohesive brand 
experience
	
TRS anchors Raymond’s B2C 
leadership in cotton and linen 
shirting across India
	
Around 70–75% of TRS sales are 
driven by fabric, delivering high-
margin, loyalty fuelled revenues
	
Works on asset light model 
as majority of stores are on 
franchisee model
Challenges
	
Fabric sales remain highly 
seasonal, with 85% of annual 
revenue concentrated around 
festive and wedding periods
	
Limited presence in malls (only 
60 stores) restricts visibility 
among younger, trend-conscious 
consumers
	
Digital transformation needs 
acceleration to tap into rising 
online demand, especially for 
shirting and apparel
Store Count
Way Forward
	
Drive sharper category focus, 
elevate in-store experiences, and 
attract new customers 
	
Build strong seasonal and 
occasion wear apparel collections 
to drive conversions
	
Calibrated expansion through new 
store openings in top 50 malls in 
India
	
March 2024
	
Closures during the Year
	
Additions during the Year
	
March 2025
MTM
44
11
2
53
TRS
1,065
29
62
1,098
EBO
409
169
41
537
Total
1,518
72
242
1,688
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
50
51
Branded Apparel
By the late 1960s, a new India 
was beginning to emerge: urban, 
ambitious, and ready to embrace 
change. Tailor-made clothing was still 
the norm, but it no longer matched the 
pace or personality of a generation on 
the move. Raymond sensed this shift 
early.
In 1968, Raymond set up one of India’s 
first readymade garments plants in 
Thane. The following year, Raymond 
Apparel Limited was born marking 
not just our entry into garments, but a 
redefinition of how India would dress 
in the decades to come.
From there, the journey unfurled 
with every new brand launch, each 
capturing a facet of the modern 
Indian wardrobe. Park Avenue, 
India’s first formal wear brand, 
launched in 1986, brought sharper 
fits in formal wear, innovative 
fabrics, hybrid style dressing to a 
new class of professionals. Today, 
it continues to be our largest brand 
with over `500 Crores in revenue, 
and expanding into casualwear and 
use of new age fabrics, innovation 
led products range, digital-first 
expressions of urban confidence.
In 1999, Parx arrived – vibrant, relaxed, 
and trend-led – becoming the voice 
of youthful dressing and value-
driven style. With the acquisition of 
ColorPlus in 2003, we introduced a 
new aesthetic – premium, understated 
casualwear designed for the 
well-travelled Indian. Today, loyal 
customers drive substantial sales, 
1968
Pioneering India’s Branded  
Ready-to-Wear Journey
as the brand continues to evolve with 
sub-lines like CP Sports and CP Jeans.
Raymond Ready to Wear, once a 
quiet player, has quickly emerged as 
a growth engine, tripling its exclusive 
store count in just two years. It 
offers versatile collections that span 
formals, festive wear, ceremonial 
range and lifestyle apparel.
To expand its presence across 
varied occasions in a man’s life and 
embracing evolving lifestyles, Ethnix 
by Raymond was launched less than 
two years ago, and has already scaled 
to over 150 stores and achieved strong 
brand recall. As we prepare to take 
it to international markets, it signals 
a confident stride into celebration 
wear with both tradition and flair. New 
forays like Sleepz by Raymond and 
Park Avenue Innerwear reflect our 
commitment to comfort, essentials, 
and round-the-clock style.
Together, through our portfolio of 
brands that have become integral in a 
man’s life, Raymond is evolving with 
him through different phases of life. 
Reflecting the values of The Complete 
Man, they blend heritage and 
innovation, comfort and confidence, 
everyday wear and personal meaning.
600+
Cities and Towns
530+
EBOs
4,500+
MBO Counters
1,400+
LFS Counters
Our Journey in Numbers 
(as of FY 2024–25)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
52
53
Highlights of the Year
	
Park Avenue retained its position 
as Raymond’s largest apparel 
brand, with strong growth in 
casual wear and successful digital 
campaigns
	
Ethnix by Raymond rapidly 
expanded to 150+ stores, building 
a strong ethnic brand identity
	
Raymond Ready to Wear more 
than tripled its exclusive store 
count, from 30+ to 90+ outlets 
from 2022–23 to 2024–25, 
establishing itself as one of the 
fastest-growing brands in the 
portfolio
	
ColorPlus maintained its premium 
positioning with strong loyalty, 
generating significant sales from 
repeat customers, while also 
expanding the CP Sports and CP 
Jeans segments
	
Parx maintained its position as a 
youth-focussed, mid-value brand
	
Successfully launched Sleepz 
by Raymond, signing up 60 
distributors and activating 2,000+ 
PoS, creating a strong trade-led 
presence
	
Launched Park Avenue Innerwear 
with premium product positioning, 
reaching 1,800+ counters via 80+ 
distributors
	
Expanded reach through a 
balanced omnichannel strategy, 
strengthening exclusive stores, 
MBOs, LFS, and digital platforms
	
Focussed brand storytelling and 
consumer engagement resulted in 
improved visibility and relevance 
across demographics
Strengths
	
A multi-brand apparel portfolio catering to diverse lifestyle needs, from 
premium formals and occasion wear to casualwear and innerwear
	
Robust retail network: 1,050+ The Raymond Shops, 4,500+ MBOs, presence 
in 1,450+ LFS counters, and growing EBO footprint of 530+ stores across key 
brands
	
Category innovation across brands – Flex Tech (Park Avenue), CP Sports 
(ColorPlus), value-driven casualwear (Parx), and ceremonial offerings (Ethnix), 
wedding collection (Raymond Ready-to-Wear)
	
Celebrity-led digital campaigns and influencer associations have strengthened 
brand recall, especially among younger and occasion-led shoppers
	
High customer retention in premium categories such as ColorPlus and Park 
Avenue, supported by quality and consistent brand experience
From sharp tailoring for 
the boardroom to refined 
ease for the weekend, and from 
ceremonial sophistication to 
everyday essentials, Raymond’s 
apparel brands define the 
modern man’s wardrobe.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
54
55
Challenges
	
Fabric-led perception still 
overshadows apparel-first 
positioning in key channels like 
Raymond Shops
	
Flat performance in certain 
segments due to macroeconomic 
factors and delayed seasonal 
recoveries
	
Ethnic wear is still in a scaling 
phase with limited presence 
in offline space, online and 
large format channels; it needs 
continued investment
	
Broader supply chain constraints 
and input costs continue to impact 
sourcing efficiencies
Way Forward
	
Strengthening individual brand 
identities through sharper 
product differentiation and 
targeted marketing, especially in 
casualwear and occasion wear
	
Expanding EBO footprint for key 
brands like Park Avenue, Ethnix, 
and Raymond Ready to Wear to 
drive direct-to-consumer visibility
	
Extending seasonal and occasion-
based apparel collections to drive 
higher store-level conversions
	
Increasing investment in tech-
driven merchandising, geo-
targeted campaigns, and demand 
forecasting tools for agile inventory 
management
	
Targeting strong growth through a 
mix of retail expansion, product 
innovation, and omnichannel 
integration
Sales 
(`in Crores)
EBITDA 
(`in Crores)
1,593
118
1,587
189
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
Segmental Performance
EBITDA Margin 
(in %)
11.9%
7.4%
Brand Sales Mix (Revenue Mix) 
(in %)
34%
20%
18%
16%
12%
Sales Channel Mix (Revenue Mix)  
(in %)
	
EBO
	
MBO
	
TRS
	
Other
	
LFS
26%
20%
16%
15%
23%
	
PA
	
RTW
	
CP
	
Parx
	
New Offerings 
and Accessories
FY 2024-25
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
56
57
Branded Apparel
Raymond Ready-to-Wear
A Wardrobe for Every Occasion
Designed for the modern gentleman who values timeless style and everyday 
ease, Raymond Ready to Wear has emerged as a go-to destination for premium 
menswear. With versatile offerings ranging from boardroom formals to celebratory 
attire and smart casuals, the brand effortlessly blends craftsmanship, comfort, and 
contemporary style.
	
Refined Formal Wear Line: Tailored for executives and professionals, offering 
sharp silhouettes and premium fabrications that elevate workplace dressing
	
Ceremonial Collection: A premium range featuring Elaborate Tuxedos, 
Bandhgala, and Three-Piece Suits in jewel tones and bright pastels, crafted with 
fine Italian fabrics for grand occasions
	
Performance Wear Innovations: Blending style with function, this collection 
integrates stretch, crease-resistance, and breathability, offering comfort and 
ease for modern lifestyles
Strategic Edge
	
Fabric Legacy Meets Fashion: 
Leverages Raymond’s textile 
mastery to deliver high-end, ready-
to-wear apparel with impeccable 
fit and finish
	
Retail Acceleration: Expanded 
rapidly from 30+ to 90+ exclusive 
brand outlets (EBOs), with strong 
traction on e-commerce platforms
	
Premium Appeal with Versatility: 
Balances timeless elegance with 
functional innovation to meet the 
needs of modern, style-conscious 
consumers
	
Growth-Driven Positioning: 
Among Raymond’s fastest-growing 
apparel brands, surpassing 
ColorPlus in revenue, and poised 
to be a key driver of future apparel 
growth
Park Avenue 
The Shift Towards Smart Hybrid Wear
Park Avenue has long been a trusted name in formal wear, but the modern 
consumer now demands versatility. The brand is evolving to meet these 
expectations, bringing together professional and casual elements into its designs. 
Key focus areas include:
	
Expanding the Flextech and Airlite collections, designed for comfort and 
adaptability
	
Strengthening distribution across MBOs and LFS outlets to reach more 
customers and maintain Park Avenue as our largest brand
	
Introducing multi-functional designs that transition seamlessly between work 
and leisure
Strategic Edge
	
Segment Leader: Raymond’s 
largest apparel brand with ~₹ 500 
Crores in revenue, reflecting its 
stronghold in the mid-premium 
menswear market
	
Expansive Reach: Available 
across 1,050+ Raymond Shops, 
1,450+ MBOs, LFS chains, and 
120+ exclusive brand outlets
	
Casualwear Expansion: Targeting 
an increase in casualwear share 
from 20% to nearly 30% of total 
turnover
	
Modern Messaging: Driven 
by digital-first campaigns and 
celebrity endorsements to 
resonate with the urban consumer
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
58
59
ColorPlus
Parx
Evolving Fashion, Engaging Millennials
Keeping Pace with Changing Trends
Built on a foundation of comfort, style, and craftmanship, ColorPlus is redefining 
premium casualwear. With a growing focus on younger consumers, the brand is 
expanding its offerings in:
	
The ever-popular chinos and semi-casual trousers segment, known for its 
superior fit and fabric
	
The CP Sport line appeals to a new generation that seeks stylish yet effortless 
fashion
	
Travel-friendly apparel, combining lightweight fabrics with versatile designs
As a brand that speaks to the youth, Parx continues to capture the pulse of fast-
evolving fashion trends. Its approach revolves around:
	
Strengthening its Denim and Athleisure collections, tapping into the rising 
demand for trendy casuals
	
Growing its online presence, making it more accessible to younger consumers
	
Enhancing brand communication to establish a stronger, more relatable identity
Strategic Edge
	
Premium Positioning: Offers high-
end casualwear using fabrics like 
Irish linen and double-mercerised 
cotton, while maintaining a 
younger appeal (35+)
	
Retail Strength: Present across 
650+ MBOs, 130+ EBOs, and LFS 
channels; significant portion of 
business driven by loyal, returning 
customers
	
Cautious Online Strategy: 
Prioritises brand integrity and 
exclusivity while exploring digital 
growth opportunities
Strategic Edge
	
Youth Connection: A brand that 
resonates with fashion-forward 
millennials and Gen Z
	
Retail Footprint: Extensive 
presence across 1,400+ MBO 
counters, 1,050+ Raymond Shops, 
and LFS chains
	
Digital-First Push: Strengthening 
online visibility and brand recall 
through dynamic campaigns
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
60
61
Ethnix by Raymond
Bringing Heritage at the Forefront
In a country where tradition and fashion go hand in hand, Ethnix by Raymond 
stands as a symbol of refined elegance in ethnic menswear. Designed for India’s 
festive and wedding markets, Ethnix brings together the finest craftsmanship, 
luxurious fabrics, and contemporary designs to create a wardrobe that exudes 
sophistication.
Ethnix is where heritage meets modern expression. With silhouettes tailored for 
celebration and detail rooted in tradition, the collection speaks to a new generation 
of men who seek authenticity with a contemporary edge. From ceremonial 
statements to festive classics, each piece is designed to honour the moment with 
grace, style, and unmistakable craftsmanship.
A Signature Collection for 
Every Occasion
Ethnix brings forth a diverse range 
of meticulously designed pieces, 
ensuring a regal and stylish presence 
at every celebration.
	
Wedding and Ceremonial 
Wear: A sophisticated lineup of 
Bandhgala, Achkans, Sherwanis, 
and Jodhpuris adorned with 
intricate embroidery, rich fabrics, 
and regal hues
	
Classic Kurta Sets: Elegant and 
versatile ensembles, perfect for 
traditional gatherings, available in 
fine silks, jacquards, and textured 
cotton blends
	
Festive Collection: A dynamic 
range infused with modern 
silhouettes, intricate thread work, 
and embellishments that redefine 
occasion wear
	
Fusion Attire: A contemporary 
take on ethnic wear, blending 
structured tailoring with 
cultural aesthetics for a fresh, 
sophisticated look
Strategic Edge
	
Design Language: A differentiated 
approach that caters to all 
occasions, offering high-quality 
ethnic wear at accessible pricing; 
with a strong presence in the 
wedding category, Ethnix ensures a 
perfect balance between tradition 
and modernity
	
Optimised Portfolio: A well-
curated mix of core wedding attire 
(Sherwanis, Bandhgala, and ornate 
Kurta sets) alongside smart ethnic 
wear suited for occasions beyond 
weddings
	
Retail Expansion: A rapid 
expansion plan, growing from 114 
stores in 2023–24 to 152 stores 
in 2024–25, with a focus on Tier 1 
and Tier 2 cities while selectively 
entering Tier 3 and Tier 4 markets
	
Multi-Channel Presence: 
Leveraging The Raymond 
Shop (TRS) network, strategic 
partnerships with Large Format 
Stores (LFS), and premium Multi-
Brand Outlets (MBOs) for greater 
accessibility
	
Brand Strengthening: Consistent 
investment in marketing and digital 
outreach to enhance brand recall 
and establish Ethnix as a leader in 
the premium ethnic wear segment
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
62
63
SleepZ 
Elevating Comfort in Sleepwear
Raymond SleepZ marks the brand’s entry into the sleepwear segment, offering both 
Indian and Western nightwear. The collection includes Kurta-Pajama sets, Dhotis, 
and contemporary loungewear, catering to diverse consumer preferences. As the 
first branded player in an otherwise fragmented market, SleepZ is set to redefine 
the category by providing superior comfort, premium fabrics, and stylish designs.
Park Avenue Innerwear 
A Premium Take on Everyday Essentials
Park Avenue extends its fashion expertise into the innerwear segment, targeting 
semi-premium and premium consumers, a category that accounts for over 50% of 
the market. 
The collection is structured under key sub-brands:
	
Classic: Everyday essentials with timeless designs
	
Livin: Trend-driven innerwear catering to young, fashion-conscious consumers
	
Sofflex: A premium offering with super soft comfort and modern aesthetics
	
Drytech: Made for movement, active performance wear designed to keep you 
cool & dry!
	
Breathe: Luxury underwear, featherlight fabric for barely there feel!
Strategic Edge
	
First-Mover Advantage: Being the 
first national branded player in the 
category, SleepZ is positioned to 
capture a large share of the market 
by offering well-crafted, high-
quality alternatives to unbranded 
products
	
Wide Distribution Network: The 
brand is leveraging Raymond’s 
strong retail presence to appoint 
distributors PAN India, ensuring 
accessibility across multiple 
touchpoints
	
Competitive Pricing: By offering 
premium sleepwear at attractive 
price points, SleepZ aims to 
shift consumer preference from 
unbranded to branded offerings
	
Launch Momentum: Officially 
launched in August 2024, the 
brand is gaining traction across 
retail stores and is expected 
to witness strong demand as 
consumers embrace premium 
sleepwear
Strategic Edge
	
Competitive Positioning: With a 
focus on mid-premium and above 
price segments, Park Avenue 
Innerwear ensures high-quality 
products that cater to aspirational 
buyers
	
Brand Leverage: By capitalising 
on Park Avenue’s strong fashion 
credibility, the innerwear line 
establishes itself as a stylish and 
reliable choice
	
Omnichannel Expansion: 
A strategic MBO-focussed 
distribution plan ensures 
widespread availability, making 
the products accessible across 
multiple retail formats
	
Appealing to the New-Age 
Consumer: With trendy designs 
and modern packaging, the brand 
resonates with the lifestyle-driven 
preferences of today’s customers
SleepZ
SleepZ
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
64
65
66
Garmenting
Over Two Decades of Global 
Garmenting Excellence
Long before we entered the global 
stage, we had already begun 
perfecting the art of garmenting at 
home. Since the late 1960s, Raymond 
had been producing ready-to-wear 
apparel for the Indian market, 
combining sharp styling, precise fits, 
and the ease of modern dressing.
By the early 2000s, India’s role in 
global fashion had started to shift. 
The world was no longer just looking 
at us as a market. It looked at us as a 
manufacturing powerhouse. Skilled 
talent, competitive infrastructure, and 
an inherent culture of craftsmanship 
made India an ideal hub. And 
Raymond was ready.
In 2003, we started Silver Spark 
Apparel Limited, marking a pivotal 
step in our export journey. With it 
came a focussed, future-facing 
garmenting infrastructure built to meet 
international standards while staying 
true to Raymond’s legacy of quality.
From a single unit to five state-of-the-
art facilities across India and Ethiopia, 
our global garmenting business now 
produces over 5.59 Million garments 
annually. With 70+ production lines 
and a workforce of over 10,000 people 
across India and Ethopia, 95% of 
whom are women. We are proud to 
be India’s largest exporter of men’s 
tailored suits, jackets, and trousers.
Our vertically integrated model 
ensures control and consistency, with 
over 70% of shirting and 55% of suiting 
fabrics sourced in-house. Today, 
2003
we serve 50+ leading global brands 
across 45+ countries.
What began with suits has now 
evolved into a broader fashion 
offering, including hybrid jackets, 
tailored casuals, and premium 
segments. Backed by innovations like 
3D digital prototyping, used in over a 
quarter of our collections, we continue 
to push the boundaries of design, 
efficiency, and excellence.
And while Raymond garments 
travel the world, our roots remain 
grounded in India. We continue to 
serve the Indian market with the same 
dedication to heritage tailoring, now 
reimagined with a modern sensibility.
Our ambition is clear. With scale, 
technology, and design on our side, 
we are moving with intent, towards 
becoming one of the top suit 
manufacturers globally.
Capacity
8.4 Million 
Pieces
10,000+ Workforce
With 95% Women Employees
45+ Countries across  
4 Continents
in Export Footprint 
Largest Exporter
of Men’s Tailored Suits, Jackets, 
and Trousers from India
50+
Leading Global Brands and 
Retailers Served
70+
Garmenting Lines
Sourced In-house
70%
Shirting Fabrics
55%
Suiting Fabrics
Our Journey in Numbers 
(as of FY 2024–25)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
66
67
Highlights of the Year
	
Achieved strong order book 
growth, driven by rising demand for 
premium fashion, hybrid jackets, 
and formal wear
	
Sustained high demand from the 
US and Europe, with successful 
onboarding of new global 
customers
	
Cemented our position as a 
preferred supplier to leading 
international fashion and lifestyle 
brands
	
Expanding garmenting capacity 
by nearly one-third to support 
China+1 mandates and Make in 
India goals
	
Achieved `1,068 Crores revenue in 
2024–25, growing from `18 Crores 
in 2004–05, demonstrating a CAGR 
of ~20–22% over two decades
	
Scaled up production to 70+ 
garmenting lines
	
Advanced unit expansion to 
support our ambition of 10 Million 
units/year
	
Expanded global client base, 
especially in the US, UK, and 
Europe, tapping into China+1 and 
Bangladesh+1 supply shifts
	
Launched new categories like 
hybrid jackets, fashion jackets, 
and women’s suits
	
Strengthened Made-to-Measure as 
a high-potential growth lever, both 
domestically and globally
	
Successfully scaled 3D digital 
prototyping, reducing sample 
development time and improving 
cost efficiency
Strengths
	
Five advanced facilities across 
India and Ethiopia producing 
diverse menswear lines for global 
brands
	
70% in-house shirting and 50–55% 
suiting fabric sourcing for quality 
and cost control
	
25-30% of collections use 3D 
digital co–creation, aiming for 
70–75% adoption
	
Partner to 50+ global brands 
including Brooks Brothers, Hugo 
Boss, and Tommy Hilfiger
	
Proven ability to diversify product 
lines rapidly in response to market 
trends
Challenges
	
Navigating Red Sea crisis and 
geopolitical tensions with agile 
logistics strategies
	
Competing with low-cost Asian 
peers through efficiency and 
value-added offerings
	
Managing demand swings in the 
US and Europe amid inflation and 
slowdowns
	
Balancing India’s wage structure 
with productivity improvements to 
stay competitive
With world-class production 
facilities and a vertically 
integrated supply chain, we deliver 
impeccably tailored suits, jackets, 
shirts, and denim, solidifying 
Raymond’s position as a premier 
clothier to the world.
Way Forward
	
Aiming to be one of the largest suit 
manufacturers with capacity of 
10 Million units annually after the 
completion of the expansion
	
Greater focus on hybrid jackets 
and tailored casuals beyond core 
suiting
	
Leveraging China+1 and new trade 
policies to win global business
	
Leveraging expanded capacity to 
deepen global presence, increase 
MTM volume, and boost fashion 
apparel share
Volume Sold 
(Million Pieces)
6.0
5.7
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Sales 
(`in Crores)
1,068
1,035
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
EBITDA 
(`in Crores)
50
104
10.1%
4.7%
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Segmental Performance
EBITDA Margin 
(in %)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
68
69
Capacity
28+ Million Metres
Kolhapur Plant
5+ Million Metres
Amravati Plant (Linen)
1,450+ Tonnes of Linen 
Yarns
Linen and Blended Fabric
70
High Value Cotton Shirting
Weaving Precision and Innovation 
in Shirting Fabric
By the 2010s, India’s shirting 
market had begun to shift. Utility 
was no longer enough. Consumers 
were seeking fabrics that spoke of 
refinement, design intelligence, and 
an elevated experience. At Raymond 
Lifestyle, this was the moment to 
reimagine shirting not just as a 
product, but as a statement of craft 
and class.
Already established as a leader in 
premium suiting, we recognised 
an opportunity to bring the same 
meticulousness and material 
mastery into shirting. Thus began 
our journey into High-Value Cotton 
Shirting, a strategic move designed 
to meet changing tastes and to 
shape them. 
From day one, the focus was on 
building depth from vertically 
integrated manufacturing to finer 
fabric innovation. We introduced 
branded selvages to reinforce 
authenticity and invested in in-
house capabilities that allowed 
complete control over quality. Our 
early collaboration with Italian 
experts added another layer of 
sophistication, refining both our 
technical acumen and aesthetic 
sensibilities.
This sparked several industry firsts, 
India’s first production of ultra-
fine cotton counts, the creation of 
shirting fabrics that met global luxury 
benchmarks, and the introduction 
of new categories like jacquards, 
casual fabrics, bottom weights, and 
2006
printed silk. Linen, once an imported 
offering, is now a core strength, 
backed by our advanced linen plant 
and in-house spinning capabilities. 
It allows us to manage the entire 
journey, from flax to finished fabric, 
with precision and care.
With state-of-the-art facilities 
in Kolhapur and Amravati, and 
yarn spinning capacity exceeding 
2,000 tonnes, we have created a 
system that supports scale without 
compromising finesse. Our presence 
in the premium B2B space continues 
to grow, backed by enhanced cost 
efficiency and complete control over 
quality.
Today, Raymond shirting fabrics 
are not merely available, they are 
in demand. Preferred by leading 
Indian manufacturers, esteemed 
by international design houses, and 
chosen by discerning individuals who 
value superior quality. 
Our Journey in Numbers 
(as of FY 2024–25)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
70
71
Highlights of the Year
	
Strengthened premium positioning with expanded offerings in high-value 
shirting and linen
	
Successfully launched premium silk shirting, diversifying the product portfolio
	
Expanded presence in B2B segments, reinforcing market leadership
Strengths
	
Leadership in fine cotton (up to 3x355) and linen (up to 150 lea) 
	
Spinning super fine linen yarns (120s & 130s) in-house, full vertical 
integration ensures control from raw fibre to final fabric
	
Strong B2B presence domestically and globally, with long-standing 
relationships across premium and luxury brands
	
Product diversity across shirting types – Jacquards, premium casual 
wear, women’s wear, jackets/bottom weights, silk blends enabling 
market segmentation 
	
The Kolhapur and Amravati facility has been a key contributor in establishing 
leadership position with product superiority and strengthening Raymond’s 
position as a top player in this category
	
Premiumisation strategy anchored in innovation and brand-led differentiation, 
like the Raymond-branded selvage and Regio Line
Backed by strong 
design capabilities 
and one of the widest shirting 
assortments in the country, we craft 
premium cotton and linen fabrics. 
Our in-house spinning of fine linen yarn 
– which powers 20+% of our shirting 
fabric portfolio – adds a distinctive 
edge to our offerings, tailored 
for the refined tastes of our 
consumers. 
Volume Sold 
(Million Metres)
25.2
27.0
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Sales 
(`in Crores)
800
830
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
EBITDA 
(`in Crores)
114
14.3%
94
11.3%
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Segmental Performance
EBITDA Margin 
(in %)
Challenges
	
Growing international competition in premium 
fabrics
	
Ongoing tariff-related uncertainties in key 
export markets present a structural challenge, 
impacting trade flows and cost competitiveness. 
Additionally, such pressures contribute to volatility 
in the currency, further affecting input costs and 
profitability
	
Volatility in linen and cotton fibre prices continues 
to influence yarn costs, thereby exerting pressure 
on margins, particularly in entry-level segments 
where pricing flexibility remains limited
	
Tarifs and impact on currency to be added
Way Forward
	
Expand Regio Line into B2B offerings, unlocking premium 
demand for silk shirting and functional fabrics
	
Scaling shirting and linen production to meet growing premium 
demand
	
Expanding B2B presence with new partnerships and deeper 
market penetration
	
Investing in high-performance, sustainable fabric innovations to 
align with global trends
	
Accelerating export growth by tapping into new trade 
opportunities and global markets
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
72
73
Innovation
Innovation drives how we create, 
differentiate, and how we stay future 
ready for our consumers. It leads 
every decision, from how we craft our 
textiles to how we elevate the end-
user experience.
With advanced yarns and precision 
weaving, we have designed garments 
that stretch effortlessly, resist 
wrinkles, stay breathable, and repel 
spills. In short, offering functionality 
wrapped in finesse.
The latest Bello Italiano range brings 
together the finesse of Italian design 
with Raymond’s tailoring expertise. 
The result is a premium range of sharp, 
high-quality fabrics crafted using 
superfine yarns, ideal for tailoring 
sophisticated suits. For festive and 
special occasions, our Ceremonial 
Fabrics offer intricate jacquards and 
rich textures, produced on advanced 
looms for enhanced detailing and 
depth.
The quest for 
Innovation 
empowers us 
to craft finest 
fabrics.
Our commitment to innovation 
extends beyond the loom and real 
fabric to embrace technology and 
digitalisation to craft a seamless 
journey for every customer. We began 
our digital transformation journey by 
recognising the need to connect with 
a new generation of digitally savvy 
consumers. This led us to pioneer 
e-commerce platforms, leverage data 
analytics, and integrate technology 
into our retail experiences. 
Today, we continue to push the 
boundaries of what is possible with 
technology. From virtual try-on 
experiences to AI-powered design 
tools and sustainable manufacturing 
practices, we are committed to 
using innovation to enhance every 
touchpoint with our brand.
Innovation is a core value that guides 
us at Raymond. It is a way of thinking, 
creating, and elevating. With every 
fabric, we are crafting the next chapter 
of Indian fashion with intelligence, 
intent, and elegance.
Digitalisation
Driving Growth through  
Digital Innovation
In a world where digital 
is the default, Raymond 
is redefining its core 
through intelligent 
technologies, data-led 
systems, and smart 
automation. From 
customer touchpoints 
to backend operations, 
digitalisation is driving 
sharper insights, quicker 
decisions, and enhanced 
agility across our value 
chain.
In 2024–25, we deepened our 
commitment to becoming an AI-
enabled, data-intuitive organisation—
focused on elevating customer 
experiences, streamlining operations, 
and empowering our teams across the 
ecosystem.
Enhancing the Omnichannel Customer Experience
With over 10 Million customers integrated into our CRM, Raymond delivers 
hyper-personalised engagement across physical stores and digital platforms. 
Our AI and generative technologies enable:
	
Targeted offers
	
Real-time recommendations
	
Context-aware campaigns
A flagship initiative, InstaHeart, our in-store QR-based engagement tool, 
uses real-time AI insights and cohort behaviours to deliver personalised 
offers to walk-in customers. This has significantly boosted both footfall and 
conversion rates.
Meanwhile, our digital gifting campaigns for brands like ColorPlus, Ethnix, 
and Park Avenue feature personalised vouchers and AI-generated videos that 
greet customers by name and reference past shopping choices—achieving 
an industry-leading 15% response rate.
Retail Intelligence and 
Dynamic Pricing
Raymond has infused AI across retail 
operations to enable smarter, faster 
decisions:
	
Predictive assortment tools tailor 
inventory to regional preferences
	
RayPulse, Raymond’s internal 
app, benchmarks sales in real-
time across MBOs and LFS
	
Dynamic pricing engines manage 
slow-moving inventory through 
occasion-driven offers, enhancing 
margins and reducing deep 
discounting
Our cloud-based NPS dashboard, 
refreshed daily, ensures we continuously 
act on real-time consumer feedback.
Scalable Digital Platforms
	
MyRaymond is one of our fastest-growing AI powered ecommerce 
platforms, integrating live store inventory and delivering personalised online 
experiences
	
RaymondMart supports B2B partners with seamless ordering, tracking, 
loyalty management, and feedback integration
	
Quick Commerce now spans 300+ pin codes, offering curated product 
bundles like the Pampering Combo Box, strengthening our last-mile delivery 
footprint
Smarter Operations and Connected Systems
Key enterprise workflows are now digitised across manufacturing and the supply 
chain, delivering improved real-time visibility and decision-making.
	
AI-powered Tableau Pulse dashboards offer instant, query-based insights
	
A master data harmonisation drive has elevated data quality across 
departments
	
Ongoing ERP upgrades and cloud migration are setting the foundation for a 
fully scalable, AI-ready enterprise
Empowering a Future-Ready Workforce
Raymond’s people strategy is evolving with a digital-first approach, leveraging 
technology to enhance employee engagement, productivity, and skill 
development.
	
New HRMS and communication tools support a more connected workforce
	
Field staff leverage RayPulse for real-time performance tracking and 
incentive management
	
AI-generated video messages now greet customers post-purchase, tailored 
to their shopping behaviours
	
Virtual try-on experiences, powered by generative AI, are being piloted to 
enhance in-store convenience
With intelligent digital systems embedded throughout 
the organisation, Raymond is building a smarter, faster, 
and more connected future—reimagining fashion retail 
for the modern era.
Looking Ahead
In the year ahead, Raymond’s digital focus will include:
	
Completing our cloud infrastructure transformation
	
Scaling AI adoption across all business functions
	
Deepening automation in operations
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
76
77
Care
At Raymond Lifestyle, care is a 
philosophy that governs our way of life 
and is integral to the way we show up 
for people.
From our earliest days, we have built 
more than just products. We have built 
relationships with our employees, 
our partners, our consumers, and 
the communities around us. And 
with every decision we take, we aim 
to honour that trust with empathy, 
responsibility, and purpose.
We continue to invest in cleaner, 
smarter manufacturing practices. 
Our factories prioritise safety, 
Crafting a 
Responsible 
Future, 
Together
inclusivity, and well-being. Our 
governance frameworks are built on 
transparency and ethical intent. And 
our environmental commitments 
go beyond compliance, reflecting a 
deeper promise to leave the world 
better than we found it. 
Social (S)
Governance (G)
100% 
Return to Work Rate
Zero 
Instances of Bribery or Corruption
Single Digit 
Employee Turnover Rate
ZERO 
Fatalities since Last 5 Years
20% 
Gender Diversity Target by 2030
Environment (E)
20% 
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 Emissions 
by 2030
20% 
Renewable Energy Target by 2030
30% 
Decrease in Waste to Landfill by 
2030
ZERO Liquid 
Discharge (ZLD) by 2030
Here is how we are committing to putting care into action:
Environment
Committed to a 
Sustainable Future
At Raymond Lifestyle, 
environmental 
responsibility is a natural 
extension of our values. 
Our environmental 
initiatives are designed 
to create a lasting 
impact, ensuring that 
we safeguard natural 
resources, reduce our 
ecological footprint, 
and build a sustainable 
future. Through strategic 
interventions, innovative 
technologies, and 
collaborative efforts, we 
continue to reinforce 
our commitment 
to environmental 
stewardship.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction
In alignment with our target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 20% 
by 2030 (from the 2024–25 baseline), we have rolled out a comprehensive 
emissions reduction programme across our manufacturing units. Key initiatives 
include replacing coal with biomass briquettes, transitioning from LPG to PNG, 
upgrading to energy-efficient IE4 motors, and deploying waste heat recovery 
systems. Renewable energy deployment is central to this effort, with solar power 
installations at facilities like Vapi and SSAL, and power purchase agreements for 
green energy across multiple units. These actions collectively reflect our proactive 
approach to decarbonising our operations.
Responsible Raw Material Sourcing 
Our responsible raw material sourcing practices further reinforce our commitment 
to sustainability. We prioritise natural and sustainable fibres, including GOTS-
certified organic cotton, European Flax Certified linen, and 100% Responsible Wool 
Standard-certified wool. Additionally, we are increasing our procurement of Global 
Recycled Standard (GRS)-certified polyester, while integrating circular design 
principles to enhance product longevity and recyclability. Recognising the sourcing 
risks of cotton and wool from water-stressed regions, we work closely with tier-1 
suppliers to promote responsible water and land management practices.
Renewable Energy Adoption
As part of our commitment to achieving 20% renewable energy usage by 2030, we 
are steadily increasing our reliance on clean energy sources. Rooftop solar plants, 
such as the 640-kW system at Vapi, and ongoing investments in energy efficient 
technologies, are enabling us to meet our operational needs and sustainability 
goals.
Water Management and Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD)
Efficient water usage and circularity are at the core of our water management 
strategy. Our Chhindwara plant has implemented a state-of-the-art ZLD system 
using Reverse Osmosis and Multiple Effect Evaporators to recycle nearly all 
wastewater. The one at Kolhapur recycles 75% of its wastewater, with active efforts 
to scale up to 100%. Across other locations, effluent treatment and centralised 
processing systems ensure regulatory compliance and sustainable water use.
Waste Management and Circularity
We aim to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill through a strong culture of waste 
segregation, recycling, and resource recovery. From reclaiming packaging materials 
in Amravati to centralised waste segregation in Kolhapur and certified e-waste 
disposal in Jalgaon, our facilities exemplify waste-conscious operations. We also 
divert fabric and production-related waste to specialised recyclers, promoting 
circularity and minimising landfill contributions.
Hazardous Chemical Reduction
We prioritise safety and sustainability in our chemical usage. Across our plants, 
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are segregated at source, managed per 
regulatory norms (e.g., MPCB and ZDHC), and disposed of through certified 
vendors. We are also transitioning to low-toxicity dyes and chemicals, reflecting our 
commitment to safer production processes and reduced environmental impact.
Through these 
focussed efforts, we 
are not only aligning 
with our ESG targets 
but also embedding 
environmental 
responsibility into 
every facet of our 
operations. Thus, 
driving long-term 
value for the planet 
and our stakeholders.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
80
81
Social
Building a Culture of 
Talent and Inclusion
As we celebrate a 
century of Raymond, 
we are reimagining 
our workforce as a 
strategic enabler—one 
that powers our growth, 
strengthens our culture, 
and prepares us for the 
future. Our people have 
always been at the heart 
of Raymond Lifestyle, and 
today, we are investing 
in their continuous 
development to ensure 
they remain agile, 
skilled, and future-ready. 
Through initiatives like 
the Raymond Leadership 
University and its flagship 
Leadership Academy, we 
are building structured 
pathways for learning 
and leadership across all 
levels. At the same time, 
we are strengthening 
our focus on diversity, 
well-being, and inclusive 
growth—ensuring 
every employee feels 
valued, supported, and 
empowered to contribute 
meaningfully.
Attracting and Retaining Future-Ready Talent
We continue to focus on bringing in high-quality talent and ensuring long-term continuity through targeted interventions. 
Our approach to employer branding and talent ringfencing has helped build a more stable, committed workforce.
	
Strategic hiring from top design and business schools
	
Strengthened employer brand presence
	
Focussed retention through a ‘ringfencing’ approach to manage talent
	
Performance-linked compensation and structured career conversations
	
Culture of recognition that celebrates success across levels
Employee Development and Leadership
Cultivating a robust, agile, and future-ready talent pipeline is a strategic 
priority. The Raymond Leadership University (RLU) serves as a 
comprehensive, structured platform unifying our efforts in leadership 
development, functional excellence, and behavioural mastery. It comprises 
several functional schools, including manufacturing, quality, supply chain, 
finance, and HR. The curriculum for the RLU is designed by Raymond’s 
internal experts in collaboration with partners like a renowned skill 
university and the Institute for Technology and Management, Navi Mumbai, 
ensuring a blend of experience, industry requirements, and academic rigour.
At the core of RLU is the Raymond Leadership Academy (RLA), our 
flagship initiative for nurturing leadership excellence at every level. We have 
architected three meticulously designed leadership journeys under RLA:
	
Transformational Leadership – Senior leadership
	
Emerging Leaders – Mid-level managers
	
Future Leaders – Young talent (in partnership with IIM Lucknow) 
We enable talent development through structured career conversations and 
customised Individual Development Plans (IDPs) that address capability 
gaps. Participants engage in real-world action learning projects, with active 
involvement from senior leaders and line managers. A talent-governance 
board, comprising CEOs and the President-HR, oversees the process, while 
programme effectiveness is tracked through qualifying marks and applied 
project outcomes.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
82
83
Diversity and Inclusion
Fostering diversity is a strategic commitment and a cultural 
cornerstone, integral to innovation and customer-centricity. 
We are proud to have a 50% female workforce at 
Raymond Lifestyle, reflecting our commitment to creating 
opportunities and a supportive environment. We aspire to 
expand representation across functions and business units.
	
Inclusive Hiring: Dedicated referral schemes and 
role earmarking for women across retail and backend 
functions
	
Empowerment Programmes: Group-level ‘Shakti’ 
initiative and business-specific programmes like 
Unnati (Retail) and Unnathi (Garmenting), focussing on 
personality development, financial literacy, upskilling, 
and mindfulness
	
Broader Inclusion: Hiring Persons with Disabilities, 
offering gender-neutral parental leave, conducting 
sensitivity training, and providing accessible 
infrastructure
Through these integrated efforts, we are not only broadening 
the talent pool but also enriching the organisational culture, 
ensuring diversity is reflected in thinking, decision-making, 
and leadership.
Employee Engagement and Culture
Sustained employee engagement is the bedrock of 
organisational agility, customer excellence, and cultural 
cohesion. Our employee engagement strategy is built on 
continuous listening, intentional recognition, meaningful 
growth opportunities, and inclusive communication. We 
leverage Amber, our AI-powered engagement bot, as a real-
time pulse checker to capture authentic sentiments, flag 
concerns, and tailor action plans.
Key engagement initiatives include:
	
Recognition & Reward (R&R): Robust, multi-level 
programmes like the Raymond Lifestyle Annual Awards 
celebrate achievements and provide timely appreciation 
and visibility
	
Career Mobility & Role Enrichment: Proactively 
providing opportunities for lateral movements, cross-
functional exposure, and internal mobility
	
Learning & Development: Through Raymond University, 
employees across bands and formats upgrade skills via 
structured and self-paced journeys tailored to unique 
role challenges
	
Retail-specific Engagement: Dedicated drives for 
retail teams, such as store-level contests, customer 
appreciation shout-outs, and interactive team huddles, 
fostering camaraderie and alignment
Our approach is adaptive, data-driven, and human-centric, 
ensuring every employee feels seen, valued, and inspired.
Innovation and Collaboration
We firmly believe that collaboration fuels innovation and 
drives sustained excellence. We institute purpose-built 
platforms and processes to break down silos and catalyse 
collective intelligence.
	
Cross-functional Platforms: ‘Unite & Include’, 
‘Confluence’, and agile CFTs connect teams to ideate, 
learn, and solve challenges collectively
	
Employee Voice: Ideas are captured via townhalls, 
suggestion boxes, Amber, and integrated into the Annual 
Operating Plan
	
Process Innovation: Action Learning Projects and Quality 
Circles drive continuous improvement on the ground
Innovation at Raymond Lifestyle is embedded into everyday 
processes through structured employee participation. Action 
Learning Projects tackle real business challenges, while 
Quality Circles in manufacturing drive ongoing improvements 
in quality and efficiency. This participative approach creates 
a dynamic innovation ecosystem – empowering employees 
closest to the customer, product, and process to lead 
meaningful change.
Work-Life Balance and Employee  
Well-being
At Raymond, we believe that employee well-being is a 
strategic imperative rooted in the belief that a fulfilled, 
healthy, and balanced workforce drives sustained business 
performance. Our Employee Well-being Programmes offer 
preventive and proactive care anchored around four key 
pillars:
	
Mental Health Support: Providing confidential access to 
therapy and counseling services, reinforced through our 
Employee Assistance Programme (EAP)
	
Wellness Initiatives: Promoting health and vitality 
through campaigns like fitness challenges and 
awareness drives around healthy eating and active 
lifestyles
	
Health Screenings & Workshops: Conducting periodic 
health check-ups, nutrition sessions, and stress 
management workshops
	
On-site Infrastructure & Amenities: Equipped 
campuses with facilities including a fully equipped gym, 
swimming pool, play zone, and crèche services
Manager sensitisation programmes and flexibility in work 
arrangements are promoted to encourage empathy and 
understanding around individual needs.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
84
85
CSR
Empowering Communities 
through Purposeful Partnerships
At Raymond Lifestyle, 
we believe our social 
responsibility extends 
beyond business. We 
believe in empowering 
communities with dignity, 
opportunity and ensuring 
wellbeing for those in 
need. Our CSR efforts 
are focussed on two 
impact areas: Health 
and Education, and 
we continue to support 
these through carefully 
chosen partnerships with 
trusted implementing 
partners.
By working alongwith 
specialist organisations 
we ensure that 
our contributions 
are impactful and 
sustainable.
Restoring Confidence and Saving Lives
Building Informed and Active Citizens
Looking Ahead
Our CSR approach is rooted 
in long-term impact through 
focussed partnerships. 
In 2024–25, we stayed 
committed to our existing 
partners and themes without 
launching new geographies or 
programmes.
We continue to believe that 
by supporting expert-led 
initiatives in health and 
education, we can create 
lasting, positive change. 
Appeals from organisations 
like CPAA reinforce the 
ongoing need, and we remain 
committed to playing our 
part with care, purpose and 
integrity.
Through every programme 
we support, our goal remains 
clear – to uplift lives and 
empower communities, one 
thoughtful step at a time.
Health
Education
Cancer Rehabilitation with Indian 
Cancer Society (ICS)
We extended our support to ICS’s 
rehabilitation programme for underprivileged 
cancer patients. The initiative provided 
services such as vocational training, 
prosthetics, nutritional aid, education 
scholarships, yoga therapy and counselling, 
benefitting over 550 individuals this year.
Stories like that of Meena, a survivor who 
now earns a livelihood as a beautician 
after receiving training and a prosthesis, 
remind us of the power of resilience and why 
rehabilitation is as vital as treatment.
Paediatric Heart Surgeries
Through our partnership with the Rotary 
Club and Jupiter Hospital, we funded 50 
life-saving heart surgeries for children. 
These interventions helped ease both 
emotional and financial distress for families 
and offered children a chance at a healthy 
future.
Childcare Support with St. Jude India 
ChildCare Centres
We supported 20 family units across 
centres in Chennai, Kolkata, Jaipur and 
Guwahati, offering children undergoing 
cancer treatment and their families safe 
accommodation, emotional care and 
support services. This year, over 300 
individuals benefitted, reflecting the depth 
of holistic care these centres provide.
School Renovation in Andhra Pradesh
We also supported infrastructure upgrades 
in government schools in Hindupur, 
Andhra Pradesh, through the Smart Andhra 
Pradesh Foundation, improving learning 
environments for hundreds of students.
Citizenship Education with CMCA
In partnership with CMCA, we reached over 4,600 students in Karnataka 
and Odisha through civic clubs and library-based mentorship programmes. 
These initiatives nurture curiosity, critical thinking and social responsibility.
Children led local projects, from community profiling to awareness drives. 
One participant, Ritika, shared how the programme inspired her to dream of 
becoming a rights advocate.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
86
87
Governance
Upholding Integrity  
and Transparency
At Raymond Lifestyle, corporate governance forms the foundation of our responsible 
and ethical business conduct. We are committed to upholding highest levels of 
transparency, accountability, and integrity in every decision we make, fostering 
lasting trust among our stakeholders. Our robust governance framework is guided by 
clearly defined policies and structured oversight mechanisms, aligned with global 
best practices.
Governance Framework
Our governance framework is built to enable sustainable growth while proactively 
managing risk. The Company’s Board of Directors, supported by specialised 
committees, ensures that decision-making remains responsible, transparent, and 
fully aligned with regulatory and ethical standards.
With 77.78% of our Board comprising independent directors, we bring clarity, 
objectivity, and balance to strategic decision-making. Our governance practices are 
thoughtfully designed to uphold financial integrity, ethical conduct, and regulatory 
alignment, reinforcing our credibility and leadership across the industry.
Sustainability 
Team
Chief 
Manufacturing 
Excellence
ESG 
Committee
CSR Committee
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee
Audit Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Investment 
and Finance 
Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Board of 
Directors
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
88
Dear Members,
Your Board of Directors are pleased to present the Seventh 
Annual Report on the business and operations of the Company 
together with the Audited Financial Statements for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025 (“year under review”).
1.	
CORPORATE OVERVIEW AND GENERAL INFORMATION
	
The Company, originally incorporated in 2018, underwent 
significant strategic restructuring between 2020 and 
2024 to streamline its business operations and unlock 
shareholder value.
	
In 2020, the Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) 
business of J K Helene Curtis Limited was demerged and 
transferred into the Company. Simultaneously, Raymond 
Consumer Care Private Limited (formerly JK Ansell Private 
Limited), which held the sexual wellness manufacturing 
business, was amalgamated with the Company. This 
amalgamation consolidated various consumer-focused 
ventures under the Company.
	
A pivotal strategic decision was executed in April 2023, 
when the FMCG business was divested to Godrej 
Consumer Products Limited through a slump sale, 
realizing a consideration of ₹ 2,825 Crore. This transaction 
allowed the Company to sharpen its focus on core 
competencies.
	
Building on this strategic realignment, the fiscal year 2024-
25 witnessed a significant transformation. The Company’s 
name was change from Raymond Consumer Care Limited 
to Raymond Lifestyle Limited. Simultaneously, the objects 
of the Company were amended to formally include the 
business of Textile and Apparel manufacturing, along with 
related ancillary activities, reflecting a clear shift in the 
strategic direction.
	
Further solidifying this transformation, the Hon’ble 
National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’), Mumbai 
Bench, approved the Composite Scheme of Arrangement 
(‘Scheme’) between Raymond Limited (‘RL’), Ray Global 
Consumer Trading Limited (‘RGCTL’) and the Company 
on June 21, 2024. Pursuant to this Scheme, the entire 
lifestyle business of Raymond Limited was demerged 
and transferred to the Company, effective from June 30, 
2024. The Company got listed on Stock Exchanges w.e.f. 
September 5, 2024.
	
As a result of these comprehensive corporate actions, 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited now stands as a leading 
Fashion and Retail Company. The Company encompasses 
iconic men’s fashion brands and leverages a vast retail 
network to offer a diverse range of fashion products and 
services, including branded textiles and apparel across 
formal, casual and ethnic wear segments.
	
This demerger of the core Lifestyle Business from 
Raymond Limited represents an affirmative step towards 
simplifying the Group structure and is designed to unlock 
the full potential of the Lifestyle Business through a newly 
listed entity, leveraging its existing strengths in Branded 
Textile, Branded Apparel and Garmenting. The Company 
remains committed to building capacities for enhanced 
performance and delivery across all its verticals.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
2.	
FINANCIAL SUMMARY AND STATE OF COMPANY AFFAIRS 
	
A summary of your Company’s financial results for the Financial Year 2024-25 is as under:
₹ in Lakh
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Revenue from operations
4,68,128
5,07,359
6,17,674
6,53,541
Operating Profit / (Loss)
5,745
52,971
12,229
64,898
Tax Expenses / Credit (Incl. Deferred Tax)
(417)
(12,822)
(2,182)
(16,027)
Profit after Tax
(900)
39,230
3,819
47,952
	
The Standalone Gross Revenue from operations for 
FY 2024-25 was ₹ 4,681.28 Crore (Previous Year: 
₹ 5,073.59 Crore). The Operating Profit stood at 
₹ 57.45 Crore as against ₹ 529.71 Crore in the Previous 
Year. The Loss for the year stood at ₹ 9.00 Crore against a 
Profit of ₹ 392.30 Crore reported in the Previous Year.
	
The Consolidated Gross Revenue from operations 
for FY 2024-25 was ₹ 6,176.74 Crore (Previous Year: 
₹ 6,535.41 Crore). The Consolidated Operating Profit 
stood at ₹ 122.29 Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 648.98 
Crore). The Consolidated Profit after tax stood at 
₹ 38.19 Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 479.52 Crore).
	
The Standalone Segment Revenue from operations for 
FY 2024-25 (a) Textile: Branded Fabric was ₹ 727 Crore 
(Previous Year: ₹ 920 Crore).
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
89
3.	
MATERIAL EVENTS DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW
1)	
Scheme of Demerger of Lifestyle Business of 
Raymond Limited into the Company
	
During the year under review, the Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench, vide its 
Order dated June 21, 2024, approved the Composite 
Scheme of  Arrangement between Raymond Limited, 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (formerly known as 
Raymond Consumer Care Limited), Ray Global 
Consumer Trading Limited and their respective 
shareholders and Creditors (“the Scheme”). The 
Appointed Date for the Scheme was April 1, 2023. 
The Effective Date for the Scheme was June 30, 
2024.
2)	
Change in Name of the Company
	
During the year under review, the name of the 
Company was changed from Raymond Consumer 
Care Limited to Raymond Lifestyle Limited effective 
May 02, 2024. 
3)	
Change in Share Capital
a. 	
Authorised Share Capital:
	
In terms of the Scheme, the Authorised Share 
Capital of the Company was increased from 
₹ 3,03,00,000 consisting of 1,51,50,000 
Equity 
Shares 
of 
₹ 
2/- 
each 
to 
₹ 13,43,00,000 divided into 6,71,50,000 Equity 
Shares of ₹ 2/- each.
b. 	
Paid-up Share Capital:
i. 	
In terms of the Scheme, 1,49,00,000 
Equity Shares of ₹ 2/- each amounting 
to ` 2,98,00,000 held by the erstwhile 
holding company Ray Global Consumer 
Trading Limited was canceled resulting 
into reduction on Share Capital.
ii.	
Upon 
Demerger 
of 
the 
Lifestyle 
undertaking from Raymond Limited to 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (formerly 
known as Raymond Consumer Care 
Limited), the Company had issued 
5,32,58,985 
Equity 
Shares 
to 
the 
shareholders 
of 
Raymond 
Limited. 
Further, consequent to the amalgamation 
of Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited 
into Raymond Lifestyle Limited, the 
Company issued 76,64,644 Equity Shares 
of ₹ 2/- each to the shareholders of Ray 
Global Consumer Trading and had also 
canceled 1,49,00,000 Equity Shares held 
by Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited 
in the Company.
iii.	
As on March 31, 2025, the paid-up 
equity share capital of the Company is ₹ 
12,18,47,258 consisting of 6,09,23,629 
Equity Shares having face value of ₹ 2/- 
each.
	
The Company does not have any 
outstanding paid-up preference share 
capital.
	
During the year under review, the 
Company has not issued any shares with 
differential voting rights nor granted any 
stock options or sweat equity or warrants.
	
As on March 31, 2025, none of the 
Directors 
of 
the 
Company 
hold 
instruments 
convertible 
into 
Equity 
Shares of the Company.
	
There is no instance where the Company 
failed to implement any corporate action 
within the specified time limit.
4)	
Listing at BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited:
	
In terms of the Scheme, the Company was listed on 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited effective September 05, 2024.
4.	
DIVIDEND AND RESERVES
	
In view of losses, no dividend has been recommended by 
the Board of Directors for the year under review.
5.	
DEBT SECURITIES & CREDIT RATING
	
During the year under review, your Company has not 
issued any new listed Debt Securities.
	
Pursuant to the Composite Scheme of Arrangement, 
1000, 7.6% Secured, Listed, Rated, Redeemable, Non-
Convertible Debentures (Series ‘A’) of the face value of 
₹ 10,00,000/- each for cash at par, aggregating to ₹ 100 
Crore (Rupees One Hundred Crore only) and 2000, 9% 
Secured Listed Rated Redeemable Non-Convertible 
Debentures (Series “B”) of the face value of ₹10,00,000/- 
each for cash at par, aggregating to ₹ 200 Crore (Rupees 
Two Hundred Crore only) issued on Private Placement 
basis by Raymond Limited stands transferred to the 
Company. In accordance with the repayment schedule, 
Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) issued and 
transferred under Series A were redeemed by the 
Company during the year under review.
	
The details of listed NCD’s outstanding as on March 31, 
2025 are as under:
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
90
Series
Date of allotment
Amount
(₹ in 
Crore)
Coupon
 Redemption date/
Schedule
Credit Rating at the 
time of NCD issue
Series B
February 10, 2021
200
9.00% p.a.
Equal Instalments on
February 09, 2028;
February 09, 2029;
February 09, 2030;
February 09, 2031
CARE AA
Total
200
-
-
-
	
Axis Trustee Services Limited has been appointed as the 
Trustee for the aforesaid NCD’s.
6.	
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
Your Company has consistently applied applicable 
accounting policies during the year under review. 
Management evaluates all recently issued or revised 
accounting standards on an ongoing basis. The Company 
discloses consolidated and standalone financial results 
on a quarterly basis which are subject to limited review and 
publishes consolidated and standalone audited financial 
results on an annual basis. There were no revisions made 
to the financial statements during the year under review.
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company 
are prepared in accordance with the applicable Indian 
Accounting Standards (“Ind-AS”) as issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and forms an 
integral part of this Report.
	
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”) read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014, a statement containing salient features 
of the financial statements of Subsidiaries/Associate 
Companies/Joint Ventures is given in Form AOC-1 and 
forms an integral part of this Report.
7.	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
	
The Company undertakes Related Party Transactions 
with its subsidiaries and group companies engaged in 
manufacture and trading of textiles, branded apparel and 
garmenting business.
	
The Audit Committee approves all the Related Party 
Transactions in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”). Omnibus approval 
is obtained on a yearly basis for transactions which are 
repetitive in nature. Transactions entered into pursuant 
to omnibus approval are verified by the Corporate Risk 
Assurance Department and details of all Related Party 
Transactions are placed before the Audit Committee and 
the Board for review and approval/ noting on a quarterly 
basis.
	
All transactions entered with related parties during the 
year under review were on arm’s length basis and not 
material in nature and thus a disclosure in Form AOC-2 
in terms of Section 134 of the Act is not required. There 
were no material Related Party Transactions during the 
year under review with the Promoters, Directors or Key 
Managerial Personnel.
	
Details of all Related Party Transactions are mentioned 
in the notes to financial statements forming part of the 
Annual Report. The Company has developed a robust 
framework through Standard Operating Procedures for the 
purpose of identification and monitoring of such related 
party transactions.
	
The Company has put in place a mechanism for certifying 
the Related Party Transactions statements placed before 
the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors from an 
independent chartered accountant firm. The firm reviews 
that the Related Party Transactions are at arm’s length and 
in the ordinary course of business and a certificate to that 
effect is placed before the Audit Committee and Board of 
Directors at quarterly meetings.
	
The Board of Directors have formulated a Policy on dealing 
with Related Party Transactions. The said policy was 
amended on January 30, 2025.
	
The updated policy is available on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at the link https://
raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Related-Party-
Transaction-Policy2.pdf
	
None of the Directors has any pecuniary relationship or 
transactions vis-à-vis the Company except remuneration, 
profit-based commission and sitting fees.
8.	
PARTICULARS 
OF 
LOANS, 
GUARANTEES 
OR 
INVESTMENTS BY THE COMPANY
	
Details of Loans, Guarantees and Investments covered 
under the provisions of Section 186 of the Act are given 
in the notes to financial statements forming part of the 
Annual Report.
9.	
PERFORMANCE OF SUBSIDIARIES
	
The separate audited financial statements in respect of 
each of the subsidiaries shall be kept open for inspection 
at the Registered Office of the Company. The Company 
will also make available these documents upon request 
by any Member of the Company interested in obtaining 
the same. The separate audited financial statements in 
respect of each of the subsidiaries are also available on 
the website of the Company at https://raymondlifestyle.
com/disclosures/sub_annual_reports.
	
The performance in brief for the major subsidiary 
companies is given hereunder:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
91
	
Domestic subsidiaries:
	
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited (“RLCL”):
	
RLCL manufactures high value fine cotton and linen 
shirting for both domestic and international customers. 
The revenue from operations of RLCL for FY 2024-25 was 
at ₹ 799.66 Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 830.07 Crore). The 
Profit after tax was ₹ 36.87 Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 22.27 
Crore).
	
Silver Spark Apparel Limited (“SSAL”):
	
SSAL has a reputed overseas clientele for formal suits, 
jackets and trousers and the export order book led to 
a strong sales growth performance. The revenue from 
operations of the Company at Standalone level is ₹ 873.14 
Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 821.89 Crore). The Company 
incurred a loss for year of ₹ 994 Crore (Previous Year: Profit 
of ₹ 46.73 Crore). On a Consolidated level, the revenue 
from operations of the Company stood at ₹ 1024.65 crore 
(Previous Year: ₹ 1,018.99 Crore). The Profit after tax was 
₹ 16.42 Crore (Previous year Profit of ₹ 59.60 Crore) for the 
year under review.
	
Celebrations Apparel Limited (“CAL”):
	
The Gross Revenue of CAL for FY 2024-25 stood at 
₹ 1.03 Crore (Previous Year: 1.03 Crore). CAL earned 
a Profit after tax of ₹ 0.63 Crore (Previous Year: Profit of 
₹ 0.64 Crore).
	
Ray Global Consumer Products Limited (“RGCPL”):
	
RGCPL a wholly owned subsidiary of Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited, has incurred a Loss of ₹ 0.003 Crore. (Previous 
Year Loss: ₹ 0.0005 Crore).
	
Overseas subsidiaries:
	
Jaykayorg AG (“Jaykay”):
	
Jaykay 
has 
recorded 
a 
profit 
of 
CHF 
11355 
(equivalent to ₹ 0.12 Crore) for the year ended 
December 31, 2024 [Previous Year: Profit of CHF 28,570 
(equivalent to ₹0.21 Crore)].
	
Raymond (Europe) Limited (“REL”):
	
“REL” has recorded a Profit of GBP 42637 (equivalent 
to ₹ 0.44 Crore) for the year ended December 31, 
2024 [Previous Year: Profit of GBP 63,628 (equivalent to 
₹0.65 Crore.
	
R & A Logistics INC, USA (“RALI”):
	
RALI is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Silver Spark 
Apparel Limited. RALI recorded a Profit of USD 
6,74,831(equivalent to ₹ 5.71 Crore) [Previous Year: Profit 
of USD 15,64,460 (equivalent to ₹ 12.95 Crore)] for the 
year ended March 31, 2025.
	
Silver Spark Middle East (FZE) (“SSME”):
	
SSME is the wholly owned subsidiary of Silver Spark 
Apparel Limited incorporated in Sharjah Airport Free 
Zone (SAIFZONE), Sharjah, UAE. SSME is engaged in 
Investment, trading of Apparel and related products for 
Asia and US customers. The Gross Revenue of SSME for 
FY 2024-25 stood at ₹ 212.11 Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 
181.20 Crore). SSME registered a Profit of ₹ 11.11 Crore 
(Previous Year: Profit ₹ 16.34 Crore).
	
Silver Spark Apparel Ethiopia PLC (“SSAEP”):
	
SSAEP is a step-down subsidiary of Silver Spark Apparel 
Limited in Ethiopia. SSAEP is a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Silver Spark Middle East (FZE). SSAEP is engaged in the 
manufacturing of formal suits, jackets, trousers and vest 
coats. The Gross Revenue of SSAE for FY 2024-25 stood 
at ₹ 68.51 Crore (Previous Year: ₹ 50.53 Crore). SSAE 
registered a Profit of ₹ 14.56 Crore (Previous Year: Loss of 
₹ 14.08 Crore).
	
Raymond America Apparel INC (‘RAAI’):
	
RAAI is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Silver Spark 
Apparel Limited. RAAI is a newly incorporated entity in 
New Jersey, which was acquired last year by the Company, 
and it is yet to commence business operations. 
10.	 MATERIAL SUBSIDIARY
	
Considering the criteria mentioned in Regulation 16 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, none of the subsidiaries qualifies 
as a Material Subsidiary of the Company for FY 2024-25.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a 
Policy for determining material subsidiaries which is in line 
with the requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations. The said 
policy was amended on January 30, 2025. The Policy has 
been uploaded on the website of the Company at https://
raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Material-Subsidiary-
Policy2.pdf
11.	 DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
	
All Independent Directors of the Company have given 
declarations that they meet the criteria of independence 
as laid down under Section 149(6) of the Act and 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In 
terms of Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Independent Directors have confirmed that they are not 
aware of any circumstances or situation which exists 
or may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or 
impact their ability to discharge their duties.
	
All the Directors have also affirmed that they have 
complied with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
& Ethics. In terms of requirements of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Board has identified core skills, expertise 
and competencies of the Directors in the context of the 
Company’s businesses, which are detailed in the Report 
on Corporate Governance.
	
Further, in terms of Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 
6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014, Independent Directors of the 
Company have confirmed that they have registered 
themselves with the databank maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs. The Independent Directors 
who were required to clear the online proficiency self-
assessment test have passed the test.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
92
	
In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors 
fulfil the conditions of independence, are independent 
of the management, possess the requisite integrity, 
experience, expertise, proficiency and qualifications to 
the satisfaction of the Board of Directors. The details of 
remuneration paid to the members of the Board and its 
Committees are provided in the Report on Corporate 
Governance.
	
As per the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, following 
are the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on 
the date of this Report:
1.	
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania – Executive Chairman 
and Managing Director (w.e.f. September 1, 2024);
2.	
Mr. Sameer Shah* - Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. 
July 1, 2024); and
3.	
Mrs. Priti Alkari – Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer.
	
* Mr. Sameer Shah has tendered his resignation as 
Chief Financial Officer on May 03, 2025 effective 
from July 31, 2025.
	
During the year under review, the Board of the Company 
was reconstituted as under:
1.	
Mrs Nawaz Gautam Singhania (DIN: 00863174) 
ceased to be Director w.e.f April 25, 2024 pursuant 
to Section 169 of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	
Mr. Dinesh Lal (DIN: 00037142), Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi (DIN: 00110996), Mr. Veneet Nayar 
(DIN:02007846) and Mrs. Anisha Motwani (DIN: 
0694349) were appointed as Independent Directors 
w.e.f July 9, 2024.
3.	
Mr. Debjit Rudra (DIN: 01393433) ceased to be 
Executive Director & CEO w.e.f July 9, 2024
4.	
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada (DIN: 08086902) ceased to 
be Independent Director w.e.f July 16, 2024.
5.	
Mr. Rajiv Sharma (DIN: 10748015) was appointed 
as 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director 
w.e.f August 24, 2024. He was redesignated 
as 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director 
w.e.f 
November 1, 2024.
6.	
Mr. 
Ravindra 
Dhariwal 
(DIN:00003922) 
was 
redesignated from Non-Executive Independent 
Director 
to 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director w.e.f November 1, 2024 and ceased to be 
director w.e.f April 11, 2025.
7.	
Mr. Sunil Kataria was appointed as Managing 
Director w.e.f July 1, 2024 and ceased to be Director 
/ Managing Director w.e.f March 31, 2025.
8.	
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania (DIN: 06863609) was 
appointed as Executive Chairman and Managing 
Director w.e.f September 1, 2024.
12.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
	
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of their knowledge and ability, 
confirms that:
a)	
in the preparation of the Annual Accounts for the year 
ended March 31, 2025, the applicable accounting 
standards have been followed along with proper 
explanation relating to material departures, if any;
b)	
the Directors have selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2025 and 
of the loss of the Company for the year ended on that 
date;
c)	
the Directors have taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud 
and other irregularities;
d)	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
concern basis;
e)	
the Directors had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
f)	
the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
13.	 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
	
Your Company believes that the process of performance 
evaluation at the Board level is pivotal to its Board 
Engagement and Effectiveness. The Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy of the Company empowers the 
Board to formulate a process for effective evaluation of the 
performance of individual Directors, Committees of the 
Board and the Board as a whole pursuant to the provisions 
of the Act and Regulation 17 and Part D of Schedule II to 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
The Board has carried out the annual performance 
evaluation of its own performance, Board Committees and 
the Directors individually. A structured questionnaire was 
prepared after taking into consideration inputs received 
from the Directors, covering various aspects of the 
Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the composition 
of the Board and its Committees, Board culture, execution 
and performance of specified duties, obligations and 
governance.
	
A separate exercise was carried out to evaluate the 
performance of individual Directors, who were evaluated 
on parameters such as level of engagement and 
contribution, independence of judgement, safeguarding 
the interest of the Company and its minority shareholders 
etc.
	
The Independent Directors of the Company met on 
March 21, 2025, without the presence of Non-Independent 
Directors and members of the management to review the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors and the Board 
of Directors as a whole; review the performance of the 
Executive Chairman & Managing Director of the Company 
and to assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the management and the Board of 
Directors. The performance evaluation of the Independent 
Directors was also carried out by the entire Board.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
93
	
The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the 
evaluation process.
	
Dedicated time was reserved for Board feedback on the 
Agenda. Board interaction between meetings was stepped 
up through Board calls on various topics. Specific items 
were also added in the Board agenda from a governance 
perspective.
14.	 NOMINATION, 
REMUNERATION 
AND 
BOARD 
DIVERSITY POLICY
	
The Board of Directors have framed a Nomination, 
Remuneration and Board Diversity policy which lays down 
a framework in relation to remuneration of Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel and Senior Management of the 
Company.
	
The Policy broadly lays down the guiding principles, 
philosophy and the basis for payment of remuneration to 
Executive and Non-executive Directors (by way of sitting 
fees and commission), Key Managerial Personnel, Senior 
Management and payment of remuneration to other 
employees.
	
The Board Directors approved various policies to align 
with the provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations on 
July 17, 2024.
	
The Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity 
Policy is available on the website of the Company viz. 
https://raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Nomination-
Remuneration-&-Board-Diversity-Policy.pdf
	
The policy also provides the criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and Independence 
of Director and criteria for appointment and removal of 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel / Senior Management 
and performance evaluation which are considered by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board 
of Directors.
	
The Policy sets out a framework that assures fair and 
optimum remuneration to the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel, Senior Management Personnel and other 
employees such that the Company’s business strategies, 
values, key priorities and goals are in harmony with their 
aspirations. The policy lays emphasis on the importance 
of diversity within the Board encourages diversity of 
thought, experience, background, knowledge, ethnicity, 
perspective, age and gender are considered at the time of 
appointment.
	
The Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity 
policy is directed towards rewarding performance, based 
on achievement of goals. It is aimed at attracting and 
retaining high calibre talent.
15.	 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND IT’S COMMITTEES
	
The Board/Committee meetings are pre-scheduled and 
a tentative annual calendar of the meetings is circulated 
to the Directors well in advance to help them plan their 
schedules and ensure meaningful participation. Only in 
the case of special and urgent business, should the need 
arise, the Board’s approval is taken by passing resolutions 
through circulation, as permitted by law, which are noted 
in the subsequent Board meeting. In certain special 
circumstances, the meetings of the Board are called at 
a shorter notice to deliberate on business items which 
require urgent attention of the Board. The Company has 
complied with Secretarial Standards – I issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India on the Meetings 
of the Board of Directors.
	
The Board met 7 (seven) times during the year under 
review and have accepted all recommendations made by 
various committees.
	
The details of the number of meetings of the Board held 
during the Financial Year 2024-25 and the attendance 
of Directors forms part of the Report on Corporate 
Governance.
16.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
The Board of Directors has the following Committees as 
on March 31, 2025:
a)	
Audit Committee
b)	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
c)	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
d)	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
e)	
Risk Management Committee
f)	
Environmental Social and Governance (ESG)
Committee
g)	
Investment and Finance Committee
h)	
Information and Technology Committee
	
The details of the Committees of the Board along with 
their composition, number of meetings and attendance 
at the meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report forming part of the Annual Report FY 2024-25.
17.	 AUDITORS & REPORTS OF THE AUDITORS
a)	
Statutory Auditor:
	
M/s. Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP, Chartered 
Accountants 
(ICAI 
FRN 
001076N/N500013)
(an affiliate of Grant Thornton network) were 
appointed as Statutory Auditors of the Company 
for a period of five consecutive years at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of the Members held on 
May 27, 2024 to hold office for five years from 
the conclusion of the 6th AGM of the Company till 
the conclusion of the 11th AGM at a remuneration 
mutually agreed upon by the Board of Directors and 
the Statutory Auditors.
	
The Statutory Auditors’ Report forms part of the 
Annual Report. The Statutory Auditor’s report does 
not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse 
remark for the year under review. There was no 
instance of fraud during the year under review, which 
required the Statutory Auditors to report to the Audit 
Committee and / or Board under Section 143(12) of 
Act and Rules framed thereunder.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
94
 b)	
Cost Auditor:
	
As per the requirements of the Section 148 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time, your 
Company is required to maintain cost records for 
Rubber Products-Male Contraceptives (Condoms) 
and such accounts are accordingly prepared and 
records are maintained therein. The Cost Audit 
Report for the year ended March 31, 2024 was filed 
with the Central Government within the prescribed 
time limit.
	
The Company wishes to report that during the 
financial year 2024-25, the demerger and transfer 
of the lifestyle business from Raymond Limited was 
concluded. This strategic realignment has brought 
the Company within the purview of Section 148 of 
the Companies Act, 2013, read in conjunction with 
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 
2014, regarding the maintenance of cost records and 
conducting cost audits of Textile units. The Company 
is fully committed to ensuring compliance with these 
regulations.
	
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation 
of 
Audit 
Committee, 
has 
re-appointed
M/s. R. Nanabhoy & Co., Cost Accountants, (Firm 
Registration Number: 000010) as Cost Auditor to 
audit the cost accounts of the Company for the FY 
2024-25 for it’s Textile units situated at Chhindwara, 
Jalgaon & Vapi and manufacturing unit of Rubber 
Products-Male Contraceptives (Condoms) situated 
at Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar. As required under the 
Act, a resolution seeking member’s approval for the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor forms part 
of the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting 
for their ratification.
c)	
Secretarial Auditor:
	
According to provisions of Section 204 of the Act and 
rules made thereunder, the Company has appointed 
M/s. DM and Associates Company Secretaries 
LLP (Firm Registration No. L2017MH003500) to 
undertake the Secretarial Audit of the Company for 
the FY 2024-25, based on consent received from 
M/s. DM and Associates Company Secretaries LLP. 
The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed as Annexure 
‘A’ and forms an integral part of this Report.
	
Pursuant to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
(Third 
Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, effective December 13, 2024, 
and in accordance with Regulation 24A of SEBI 
Listing Regulations, a listed entity is now required 
to appoint a Secretarial Audit firm for a maximum 
of two terms of five consecutive years, subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
	
In compliance with these amended provisions 
and based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, the Board of Directors, at its meeting 
held on May 12, 2025, has recommended and 
approved the appointment of M/s. DM & Associates 
Company Secretaries LLP, (‘DM & Associates’) 
(ICSI Firm Registration No. L2017MH003500), 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company. This 
appointment is for a period of five years, commencing 
from the financial year 2025-26 upto the financial 
year 2029-30. The resolution for their appointment 
will be placed before the members for their approval 
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 24A of SEBI Listing 
Regulations read with SEBI Circular No. CIR/CFD/
CMD1/27/2019 dated February 08, 2019, the Annual 
Secretarial Compliance Report of the Company 
form part of this Report and is also uploaded on the 
website of the Company i.e. https://raymondlifestyle.
com/uploads/Annual_Secretarial_Compliance_
Report-May_29_2025.pdf
	
The Secretarial Audit Report and Secretarial 
Compliance Report for the financial year 2024-25 
contains one observation which is self-explanatory 
and no further explanation /justification is required 
from management.
18.	 INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS, ITS 
ADEQUACY AND RISK MANAGEMENT
	
Internal Financial Control and Risk management are 
integral to the Company’s strategy and for the achievement 
of the long-term goals. Our success as an organisation 
depends on our ability to identify and leverage the 
opportunities while managing the risks. In the opinion 
of the Board, the Company has robust internal financial 
controls which are adequate and effective during the year 
under review.
	
Your Company has an effective internal control and 
risk-mitigation system, which is constantly assessed 
and strengthened with new/revised standard operating 
procedures. The Company’s internal control system 
is commensurate with its size, scale and complexities 
of operations. M/s. Ernst & Young LLP, Chartered 
Accountants were the internal auditors of the Company 
for the FY 2024-25.
	
Business risks and mitigation plans are reviewed and 
the internal audit processes include evaluation of 
all critical and high risk areas. Critical functions are 
reviewed rigorously and the reports are shared with the 
Management for timely corrective actions, if any. The 
major focus of internal audit is to review business risks, 
test and review controls, assess business processes 
besides benchmarking controls with best practices in the 
industry.
	
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors actively 
review the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal 
control systems and are also apprised of the internal audit 
findings and corrective actions. The Audit Committee 
suggests improvements and utilizes the reports generated 
from a Management Information System integral to the 
control mechanism. The Audit Committee and Risk 
Management Committee of the Board of Directors, 
Statutory Auditors and Business Heads are periodically 
apprised of the internal audit findings and corrective 
actions.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
95
	
The Company endeavours to continually sharpen its risk 
management systems and processes in line with a rapidly 
changing business environment. During the year under 
review, there were no risks which in the opinion of the 
Board threaten the existence of the Company. However, 
some of the risks which may pose challenges are set out 
in the Management Discussion and Analysis which forms 
part of this Annual Report.
	
The Company had identified a ransomware infection 
within their network that resulted in the encryption of 
critical user data and disrupted the operations for a brief 
period. The threat actor infiltrated the network via VPN 
using compromised credentials associated with a local 
VPN user from February 11, 2025 to February 16, 2025. 
The Company immediately involved external experts 
and isolated the infected infrastructure. The Company 
promptly took steps to contain and remediate the impact 
of the incident.
19.	 VIGIL MECHANISM / WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
	
Your Company is focused to ensure that ethics continue to 
be the bedrock of its corporate operations. It is committed 
to conducting its business in accordance with the highest 
standards of professionalism and ethical conduct in line 
with the best governance practices.
	
In order to strengthen the whistle blower mechanism and 
to protect the identity of whistle blower, the Company has 
appointed M/s. KPMG Advisory Services Private Limited to 
handle complaints received by the Company.
	
The Company has a Whistle blower Policy in compliance 
with the provisions of Section 177(10) of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
During the year under review, the policy was modified to 
make it more comprehensive and adequate to deal with 
issues and to align it with current market practices.
	
The Policy also provides adequate protection to the 
Directors, employees and business associates who 
report unethical practices and irregularities. The Policy 
provides details for direct access to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Any incidents that are reported are 
investigated and suitable action is taken in line with the 
Whistle Blower Policy.
	
The Whistle Blower Policy has been appropriately 
communicated within the Company across all levels and 
is available on the website of the Company at https://
raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
	
The Company affirms that no personnel has been denied 
access to the Audit Committee.
20.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
	
	In accordance with the provisions of the Act read with 
Rules made thereunder, the Company was required to 
make CSR contribution for the FY 2024-25.
	
The Report on CSR activities as required under 
the 
Companies 
(CSR 
Policy) 
Rules, 
2014
along with the brief outline of the CSR policy is 
annexed as Annexure ‘B’ and forms an integral
part of this Report. The Company’s CSR Policy has been 
uploaded on the website of the Company at https://
raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Corporate-Social-
Responsibility-Policy.pdf For details regarding the CSR 
Committee, please refer to the Corporate Governance 
Report, which is a part of this report.
21.	 ENVIRONMENT, 
HEALTH 
& 
SAFETY 
AND 
SUSTAINABILITY
	
The Company is conscious of the importance of 
environmentally clean and safe operations. The Company’s 
policy requires conduct of operations in such a manner 
so as to ensure safety of all concerned, compliances of 
environmental regulations and preservation of natural 
resources.
	
The Company is intensifying its sustainability efforts, 
addressing ESG challenges like water management, 
renewable energy integration, and governance. Following 
achievements such as Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) at 
Chhindwara and significant rainwater harvesting at Vapi, 
the company has set 2030 targets. These targets include 
a 15% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from 
a 2024-25 baseline, 25% renewable energy adoption, 
elimination of waste to landfill, full ZLD at Chhindwara, 
single-digit employee turnover, zero workplace fatalities, 
40% female representation, and 100% independent 
directors on all committees. Progress includes a fully 
operational ZLD plant at Chhindwara, 75% wastewater 
recycling at Kolhapur, and a 640 kW rooftop solar 
installation at Vapi. Energy efficiency improvements 
and a reclaimed-packaging program are also in place, 
with hazardous waste managed per MPCB and ZDHC 
guidelines. These initiatives highlight Raymond Lifestyle’s 
dedication to its ESG objectives.
22.	 DISCLOSURES UNDER SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF 
WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION 
& REDRESSAL) ACT 2013
	
In compliance of provisions of the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”) and Rules 
framed thereunder, the Company has formulated and 
implemented a policy on prevention, prohibition and 
redressal of complaints related to sexual harassment of 
women at the workplace.
	
The Company is committed to providing a safe and 
conducive work environment to all its employees and 
associates. All women employees whether permanent, 
temporary or contractual are covered under the above 
policy. The said policy has been uploaded on the internal 
portal of the Company for information of all employees. 
An Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) has been set up 
in compliance with the POSH Act. Details of complaints 
received during the year under review under POSH Act are 
as under:
a. 	
number of complaints filed during the year : Nil
b. 	
number of complaints disposed of during the year : 
Nil
c. 	
number of complaints pending as on end of the 
financial year : Nil
d.	
number of complaints pending for more than ninety 
days: Nil
23.	 EMPLOYEE 
STOCK 
OPTION 
SCHEMES 
(“ESOP 
Scheme”)
	
The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 
May 12, 2025,  approved the “Raymond Lifestyle 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2025” (the “ESOP 
Scheme”). The Company will seek the approval of its 
members for the ESOP Scheme at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
96
	
This ESOP Scheme has been formulated in line with the 
Composite Scheme of Arrangement between Raymond 
Limited, Raymond Lifestyle Limited, and Ray Global 
Consumer Trading Limited. The Composite Scheme 
stipulated that option holders under the Raymond 
ESOP Scheme 2023 would be entitled to benefits no 
less favourable than those available to ESOP holders of 
Raymond Limited.
	
To ensure this continuity of benefit for eligible employees, 
the Raymond Lifestyle Employees Stock Option Plan 
2025 has been designed to mirror the Raymond ESOP 
Scheme 2023. Under the proposed ESOP Scheme, 
existing option holders of the Raymond ESOP Scheme 
2023 will receive benefits commensurate with the 
exchange ratio determined under the Composite Scheme 
of Arrangement. Specifically, for every 5 options held in 
Raymond Limited, 4 options of Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
will be granted to the eligible employees. Furthermore, 
the exercise price of these new options will be suitably 
adjusted to maintain the same level of benefit entitlement 
for the option holders.
24.	 HUMAN RESOURCES AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
	
The Human Resources function is akin to the backbone 
of the Company and has fuelled Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited’s turnaround by working as a strategic partner 
to the business. The technical and quality demands of 
the industry combined with our own vision to expand 
significantly over the next few years have ensured that we 
build an agile, engaged, and energized work force.
	
At Raymond Lifestyle Limited, we continue to retain focus 
on our core values of Trust and Customer Satisfaction 
and also ensure employee satisfaction at the same 
time. Raymond Leadership Competencies of ‘Passion 
for Results’, ‘Deliver Superior Results Consistently’, 
‘Demonstrate a Sense of Urgency’ and ‘Demand 
Accountability and Task Ownership’ helps your Company 
to achieve its core objectives of building organizational 
capability, 
skill 
enhancement 
and 
enhancing 
competencies.
	
Various employee-centric interventions like employee-
friendly 
policies, 
mental 
health 
initiatives 
and 
organisational development through leadership coaching 
helps the employees create value and achieve a sense of 
satisfaction in what they do. The employees are motivated 
through various skill-development, engagement and 
voluntary 
programs. 
Your 
company 
ensures 
that 
employees are aligned with the organizational culture and 
values whilst never losing sight of our business objectives. 
Technical and safety training programmes are given 
periodically to workers.
	
The Company has a robust performance evaluation 
process through which individual goals are aligned to 
organizational goals so that the individuals and the 
organisation grow in tandem.
	
During the year under review, the Industrial relations 
remained generally cordial.
25.	 QUALITY AND ACCOLADES
	
Your Company continues to win awards year-after-
year, reiterating its credible market position. Some 
awards received during FY 2024-25 by the Company, its 
subsidiaries are as given below:
•	
Proximity Based Marketing by E4M Indian Digital 
Marketing Awards to Ethnix by Raymond.
•	
The Great Indian Plant Champion by TransformMedia 
to Textile plant, Amravati
•	
Innovator in Procurement - 13th Edition Procurement 
Excellence Summit & Awards 2025 by UBS Forums.
•	
Preparatory Team - Par Excellence Award by National 
Convention on Quality Concepts.
•	
Strategic Vendor of the Year Award by Tailored 
Brands, Inc, New York.
•	
Gold awards at the 9th edition of ADGULLY by Digixx 
Summit & Awards.
•	
ET Now recognition for Best organisations for women 
2025 by Economic Times.
•	
Retail Icon of the Year at the 9th Edition of the Future 
of Retail & E-Commerce Summit 2025 by UBS 
Forums.
•	
India Tax Icon at the 2nd Great Indian Tax Leaders 
Summit & Awards 2025 by Transformance.
•	
Best Digital Marketing Professional by BW Marketing 
World.
•	
Diversity & Inclusion Learning Initiative by ETHR 
Future Skills Awards 2025, Economic Times.
•	
Excellence in Cost Management by Institute of Cost 
Accountants of India.
•	
Most Preferred Workplace 2025 by Marksmen Daily.
•	
Swachhata Award 2025 by SD Foundation, Arogya 
Bharati, and Jalgaon Municipal Corporation.
•	
Most Trusted Partner by Fashion Factory.
•	
30 - Top Most Retail Minds by ASIA - AFRICA - GCC 
Retail & Shopping Centre (Congress & Awards).
•	
Most Trusted Tailored Menswear Brand by TRA’s 
Brand Trust Report.
26.	 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
	
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report on the 
operations of the Company, as required under the SEBI 
Listing Regulations is provided in a separate section and 
forms an integral part of this Report.
27.	 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
	
As per Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, a separate section on corporate 
governance practices followed by the Company, together 
with a certificate from the Company’s Auditors confirming 
compliance forms an integral part of this Report.
28.	 ANNUAL RETURN
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92(3) of the Act 
read with Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, the Annual Return of the Company in 
Form MGT-7 has been placed on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at the following link:
https://raymondlifestyle.com/disclosures/sub_annual_
reports
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
97
29.	 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
	
Your Company realizes the importance of being 
transparent and accountable as an organization, which 
in turn, helps in strengthening the trust that stakeholders’ 
have placed in the Company. We consider disclosure 
practice as a strong tool to share strategic developments, 
business performance and the overall value generated 
for various stakeholder groups over a period of time. In 
compliance with Regulation 34 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(“BRSR”) is annexed as Annexure ‘C’ and forms an 
integral part of the Director’s Report.
30.	 INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND 
(IEPF)
	
A detailed disclosure with regard to the IEPF related 
activities undertaken by your Company during the year 
under review forms part of the Report on Corporate 
Governance.
31.	 SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY 
THE REGULATORS OR COURTS
	
No significant and material order has been passed by 
the regulators, courts, tribunals impacting the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future. The 
Stock Exchanges had levied penalty on the Company for 
non-compliance with certain provisions of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, details of which are given in the Annual 
Secretarial Compliance Report for FY 2024-25.
32.	 STATUTORY INFORMATION AND OTHER DISCLOSURES
(a)	
The 
information 
on 
conservation 
of 
energy, 
technology 
absorption 
and 
foreign 
exchange 
earnings and outgo pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) 
of the Act, read with the Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is annexed as Annexure ‘D’ 
and forms an integral part of this Report.
(b)	
The Disclosure required under Section 197(12) of 
the Act read with the Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, is annexed as Annexure ‘E’ 
and forms an integral part of this Report.
(c)	
A statement comprising the names of top 10 
employees in terms of remuneration drawn and 
every person employed throughout the year, who 
were in receipt of remuneration in terms of Rule 
5(2) and Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 is annexed as Annexure ‘F’ and forms an 
integral part of this annual report. The said Annexure 
is not being sent along with this annual report 
to the members of the Company in line with the 
provisions of Section 136 of the Act. Members who 
are interested in obtaining these particulars may 
write to the Company Secretary at the Registered 
Office of the Company or send an email at 
secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.in. 
The 
aforesaid 
Annexure is also available for inspection by 
Members at the Registered Office of the Company, 
21 days before and up to the date of the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting during the business hours 
on working days.
	
None of the employees listed in the said Annexure 
is a relative of any Director of the Company. None of 
the employees hold (by himself/herself or along with 
his/her spouse and dependent children) more than 
two percent of the Equity Shares of the Company.
(d)	
The Company has not accepted any deposits, within 
the meaning of Section 73 of the Act, read with the 
Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 
as amended.
(e) 	 The Company has complied with the provisions of 
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 during the year under 
review.
(f)	
No application has been made under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code. The requirement to disclose 
the details of application made or any proceeding 
pending under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 (31 of 2016) during the year along with 
their status as at the end of the financial year is not 
applicable.
(g)	
The requirement to disclose the details of difference 
between amount of the valuation done at the time 
of onetime settlement and the valuation done while 
taking loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions 
along with the reasons thereof, is not applicable.
33.	 COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
	
During the year under review, the Company has complied 
with the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by  The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
34.	 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
	
Statements in this Directors’ Report and Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report describing the Company’s 
objectives, projections, estimates, expectations or 
predictions may be “forward-looking statements” within 
the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. 
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed 
or implied. Important factors that could make difference 
to the Company’s operations include raw material 
availability and its prices, cyclical demand and pricing in 
the Company’s principal markets, changes in Government 
regulations, Tax regimes, economic developments within 
India and the countries in which the Company conducts 
business and other ancillary factors.
35.	 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
	
Your Director wish to place on record deep appreciation, 
for the contribution made by the employees at all levels 
for their hard work, commitment and dedication towards 
the Company. Their enthusiasm and untiring efforts have 
enabled to the Company to scale new heights.
	
Your Director thank the Government of India, the State 
Governments and various regulatory authorities for their 
co-operation and support to facilitate ease in doing 
business.
	
Your Director also wish to thank its customers, business 
associates, distributors, channel partners, suppliers, 
investors and bankers for their continued support and 
faith reposed in the Company.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Gautam Hari Singhania
Executive Chairman
Mumbai, May 12, 2025	
DIN: 00020088
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
98
1. 	
Global Economy Overview and Outlook
	
The global economy is still grappling with major challenges. 
Slower growth, stubborn inflation, and increasing 
geopolitical instability are all contributing factors. Leading 
economic organizations recently predicted a decline in 
worldwide economic activity, with the United States and 
China being particularly affected.
	
Higher US tariffs are likely to affect the global economy 
by increasing inflation and slowing growth, though a 
worldwide recession isn’t expected. The global economy 
seems to be settling into a low-growth pattern, which won’t 
be enough to support long-term economic development. 
To boost growth and development, global and national 
policies are needed to improve the external economic 
environment, enhance macroeconomic stability, ease 
structural limitations, and address climate change.
	
Global economic growth forecasts for 2025 are looking 
grim, with major organizations predicting a significant 
slowdown. The United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development (UNCTAD) projects a low 2.3% growth, 
attributing it to escalating trade tensions and ongoing 
uncertainties. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has 
also cut its 2025 forecast sharply to 2.8% from an earlier 
3.3%. Similarly, the Peterson Institute for International 
Economics (PIIE) expects global GDP growth to slow to 
2.7% in 2025, with only a slight improvement to 2.8% in 
2026, a notable drop from 2024’s 3.2% growth.
2. 	
Indian Economy Overview and Outlook
	
India is projected to continue its lead as the fastest-
growing major economy in 2025, with a 6.5% growth 
rate, according to reports from both the World Bank and 
UNCTAD. This growth will likely be fueled by sustained 
momentum in the services sector and an acceleration in 
manufacturing activity, thanks to government efforts in 
improving logistics infrastructure and implementing tax 
reforms.
	
India stands out among countries driving global growth 
through increased government spending and supportive 
monetary policies. While robust domestic demand, 
a shrinking trade deficit, and controlled inflation are 
bolstering its economy, persistent weak global demand 
continues to pose trade challenges. Although the risk 
of foreign investor outflows remains, a rise in domestic 
investment offers a significant buffer. The Reserve 
Bank of India’s (RBI) proactive policies have also been 
instrumental in stabilizing liquidity and managing inflation 
expectations.
	
Overall, India’s economic outlook is strong, but global 
market uncertainties, financial volatility, and trade 
disruptions remain key risks. Continued policy support 
and domestic resilience will be vital to maintaining this 
economic momentum.
3. 	
Macroeconomic Environment
	
The financial year 2024-25 was characterized by a 
complex and evolving global economic landscape. 
Geopolitical tensions and macroeconomic uncertainties 
in international markets continued to pose challenges. 
For India, while the economy demonstrated resilience 
and maintained its position as one of the fastest-growing 
major economies, it was not immune to these pressures.
	
Persistent high inflation, particularly during the first half of 
the fiscal year, exerted significant pressure on consumer 
wallets, leading to subdued demand for discretionary 
goods. This directly impacted the textile and apparel 
sector, which is highly sensitive to consumer sentiment 
and disposable income levels. While inflationary 
pressures began to moderate towards the end of the 
year, the impact on consumption patterns was visible 
throughout the period.
4. 	
Industry Overview
	
The Indian textile and apparel industry, a cornerstone 
of the national economy, contributes significantly to 
GDP, industrial output, and employment. The industry is 
undergoing a significant transformation, driven by evolving 
consumer behavior, technological advancements, and a 
greater focus on sustainability. Key developments include 
a noticeable shift from unbranded to branded products, 
the rapid growth of e-commerce and omnichannel retail, 
and increasing demand for casual wear and specialized 
product categories like ethnic wear. Government 
support through initiatives like the Production-Linked 
Incentive (PLI) scheme continues to encourage domestic 
manufacturing and investment in the sector.
	
Apparel Industry
	
The global apparel market is a significant force, valued at 
US$ 1.84 trillion in 2025 and representing 1.65% of global 
GDP. It’s set for steady growth, projected to hit US$ 2.04 
trillion by 2029 with a CAGR of 2.61%. India’s apparel 
industry is particularly well-positioned for this expansion, 
fueled by innovation, government backing, and rising 
global demand. The future leaders in this market will 
be those embracing eco-friendly practices. India is 
poised to become a central hub for textile innovation 
and sustainable production, continuing to export high-
quality goods and serve its booming domestic market. 
To fully achieve this potential, the industry must prioritize 
ongoing innovation, infrastructure improvements, and 
environmental responsibility.
5. 	
Business Overview
	
Raymond Lifestyle Limited is a leading, diversified entity 
in the fashion and retail space in India. The Company has 
a strong portfolio of iconic brands and an extensive retail 
network that caters to a wide spectrum of consumers. The 
business is structured across the following key segments:
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
99
•	
Branded Textile: The flagship business, renowned for 
its high-quality suiting and shirting fabrics.
•	
Branded Apparel: A comprehensive portfolio of 
ready-to-wear brands including Park Avenue (formal 
wear), ColorPlus (smart casuals), Parx (casual wear), 
and Ethnix by Raymond (ethnic wear).
•	
Garmenting: A B2B business that manufactures 
and supplies garments to leading domestic and 
international brands.
•	
High-Value Cotton Shirting: A specialized business 
focusing on the production of premium cotton and 
linen shirting fabrics for leading global brands.
	
The Company’s products reach consumers through 
a multi-channel distribution network, including an 
expansive web of over 1,600 exclusive and multi-brand 
retail stores across India.
6.	
Performance Review (Financial and Operational)
	
Raymond Lifestyle Limited navigated a challenging year, 
with its performance reflecting the broader industry 
headwinds.
	
Financial Performance Highlights (Consolidated, YoY):
Particulars
FY 2024-25 
(₹ Cr)
FY 2023-24 
(₹ Cr)
YoY Change
Total Income
6,360
6,690
(5%)
EBITDA
651
1,091
(40%)
EBITDA Margin 
(%)
10.2%
16.3%
Profit Before Tax 
(PBT)
122
649
(81%)
PBT Margin (%)
1.9%
9.7%
Net Profit (Post-
Exceptionals)
38
480
(92%)
	
The 
company’s 
performance 
was 
significantly 
impacted by:
1.	
Weak Consumer Demand: High inflation led to 
reduced discretionary spending, impacting sales 
volumes and leading to scale deleverage.
2.	
Changing 
Consumer 
Spending 
Patterns: 
The 
consumer behavior is changing with a greater 
emphasis on discretionary spending on things 
like healthcare and travel, rather than apparel and 
textiles. This shift in priorities coupled with pile-up 
with consumer due to large inventory clearance by 
all FMCG companies post COVID-19 period has led 
to reduced demand for textiles and apparel.
3.	
Investment in Expansion: Profitability was also 
impacted by upfront investments in retail store 
expansion and an adverse sales mix during the year.
	
Operational Highlights: Despite the challenges, the 
company demonstrated operational resilience:
•	
Retail Expansion: Continued its aggressive retail 
expansion, adding 170 new stores in FY25, taking the 
total network count to 1,688 stores as of March 31, 
2025. This includes a growing presence for its ethnic 
wear brand, ‘Ethnix by Raymond’.
•	
Strong Balance Sheet: The company successfully 
maintained a net debt-free position, ending the year 
with a net cash surplus of ₹90 Crore.
•	
Additionally, the Company encountered unforeseen 
disruptions, 
including 
a 
ransomware 
attack. 
Company’s IT team with the support of cybersecurity 
experts, restored back normalcy of the operations, 
underscoring resilience. This experience reinforced 
that sharper execution, financial agility, and 
disciplined capital allocation for future progress.
Segment-wise Analysis (FY25 vs FY24):
•	
Branded Textile: This segment was significantly 
affected by weak consumer demand and the 
operational disruption from the ransomware attack. 
Revenue stood at ₹3,002 Cr, a decline of 13% from 
the previous year. EBITDA fell by 42% to ₹420 Cr, with 
margins contracting to 14.0% from 20.9%.
•	
Branded Apparel: Revenue for this segment 
remained flat at ₹1,593 Cr. However, EBITDA saw 
a steep decline of 38% to ₹118 Cr, with margins 
falling to 7.4% from 11.9%. This was primarily due 
to upfront investments in retail expansion and an 
unfavorable channel mix.
•	
Garmenting: The garmenting segment showed 
a modest revenue growth of 3% to ₹1,068 Cr, 
supported by new customer acquisitions in 
international markets. However, EBITDA declined 
by 52% to ₹50 Cr due to an adverse sales mix and 
higher training costs for new customer onboarding.
•	
High Value Cotton Shirting: Revenue for this segment 
declined by 4% to ₹800 Cr. In contrast, EBITDA grew 
by 21% to ₹114 Cr, supported by a one-time subsidy 
of approximately ₹53 Crore in Q4 FY25.
7. 	
Opportunities and Threats
	
Opportunities:
•	
Premiumization and Casualization: A growing 
aspirational consumer base and increased brand 
consciousness are driving demand for premium 
products and a shift towards more versatile, casual 
wear.
•	
Retail Penetration: The expansion of organized retail, 
both in metropolitan areas and Tier 2/3 cities, is 
creating new avenues for growth and brand visibility.
•	
Government Support: Initiatives like the Production-
Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for textiles aim to 
boost domestic manufacturing, especially in the 
man-made fiber (MMF) and technical textiles 
segments.
•	
‘China Plus One’ Strategy: Global brands are actively 
looking to diversify their sourcing, presenting a 
significant opportunity for Indian manufacturers to 
increase their share of global exports. Potential Free 
Trade Agreements (FTAs), such as the one with the 
UK, could further accelerate this trend.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
100
Threats & Challenges:
•	
Intense Competition: The industry faces stiff 
competition from countries like Bangladesh and 
Vietnam, which have advantages in terms of scale 
and cost structures.
•	
Input Cost Volatility: Fluctuations in the prices of key 
raw materials, especially cotton, can significantly 
impact margins.
•	
Subdued Demand: As witnessed in FY25, weak 
consumer demand, both domestically and in key 
international markets, remains a primary threat to 
volume growth.
•	
Sustainability 
and 
Regulatory 
Compliance: 
Increasing global focus on ESG (Environmental, 
Social, 
and 
Governance) 
standards 
requires 
significant investment in sustainable practices and 
transparent supply chains.
8. 	
Risks, Concerns, and Mitigations
The company’s business is exposed to several risks:
•	
Macroeconomic Risks: Continued inflation and a 
slowdown in economic growth could further dampen 
consumer sentiment and discretionary spending.
•	
Market-related Risks: The apparel market is intensely 
competitive and subject to rapidly changing fashion 
trends and consumer preferences.
•	
Operational Risks: The business is vulnerable to 
supply chain disruptions (as evidenced by the 
ransomware attack), volatility in raw material prices, 
and the complexities of managing a large and 
expanding retail network.
	
The company is actively working to mitigate these 
risks by diversifying its product portfolio with a focus 
on high-growth areas like ethnic and casual wear, 
strengthening its supply chain, and leveraging its 
brand equity to maintain a competitive edge.
9. 	
Internal Control Systems and Their Adequacy
	
The company has a robust internal control framework, 
which is essential for its complex and widespread 
operations. The framework is designed to ensure the 
accuracy and reliability of financial reporting, the 
efficiency of operations, the safeguarding of assets, and 
strict compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. 
The internal audit function continuously monitors the 
adequacy and effectiveness of these controls, and its 
findings are reviewed by the Audit Committee of the 
Board, ensuring the highest level of oversight.
10. 	 Human Resources
	
Our employees are our most valuable asset and the driving 
force behind our success. The company is committed 
to fostering a culture of excellence, continuous learning, 
and inclusivity. We focus on attracting, developing, and 
retaining the best talent in the industry. Through various 
training and development programs, we aim to enhance 
the skills and capabilities of our workforce, ensuring 
they are equipped to meet the evolving demands of the 
business.
11. 	 Sustainability and ESG Initiatives
	
Raymond Lifestyle is committed to sustainable and 
responsible business practices, as detailed in its FY25 
SASB and climate-related disclosure reports.
•	
Environmental: The company has a stringent 
approach 
to 
chemical 
management, 
moving 
beyond a simple Restricted Substances List (RSL) 
to a comprehensive Manufacturing Restricted 
Substances List (MRSL) framework. It actively 
monitors and manages its water usage and effluent 
treatment. There is a clear focus on sourcing 
sustainable raw materials, with 100% of its wool 
being certified under the Responsible Wool Standard 
and increasing use of recycled polyester.
•	
Social: The company emphasizes worker health 
and safety, fair labor practices, and product quality 
across its supply chain.
•	
Governance: A well-defined governance structure, 
including dedicated ESG and Risk Management 
committees at the board level, ensures that climate-
related risks and opportunities are integrated into the 
core business strategy.
12. 	 Outlook
	
While FY25 was a challenging year, the management 
remains optimistic about the future. Early signs of demand 
recovery were visible towards the end of the fiscal year. 
The company’s strategic priorities for the future include:
•	
Capitalizing on Market Recovery: Leveraging its 
strong brand and expanded retail network to capture 
the expected revival in consumer demand in FY26.
•	
Continued Retail Expansion: Persisting with its 
strategy to deepen its reach across the country, 
enhancing accessibility for consumers.
•	
Focus on Profitable Growth: Driving operational 
efficiencies and optimizing the product and channel 
mix to improve profitability.
•	
Leveraging FTAs: Proactively preparing to take 
advantage of emerging export opportunities from 
potential trade agreements.
	
The company’s focus on building a sustainable business, 
backed by a strong brand and a robust balance sheet, 
positions it well to navigate future challenges and 
capitalize on the long-term growth story of the Indian 
apparel and retail sector.
13. 	 Cautionary Statement
	
Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis 
describing the Company’s objectives, projections, 
estimates, and expectations may be ‘forward-looking 
statements’ within the meaning of applicable securities 
laws and regulations. Actual results could differ materially 
from those expressed or implied. Important factors that 
could make a difference to the Company’s operations 
include economic conditions affecting demand/supply 
and price conditions in the domestic and overseas 
markets in which the Company operates, changes in 
Government regulations, tax regimes, and other statutes.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
101
Annexure A
Form No. MR-3
Secretarial Audit Report
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
For the Financial Year Ended March 31, 2025
To,
The Members,
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
Plot G-35 & 36 MIDC
Waluj Taluka, Gangapur,
Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar– 431136
Dear Members,
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the audit period covering the financial year ended March 31, 
2025, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on March 31, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
1.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
there under;
2.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made there under;
3.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and bye-
laws framed there under;
4.	
The provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999 and the rules and regulations made there under to 
the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial borrowings;
5.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
b.	
The Securities Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021;
c.	
The 
SEBI 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations,2015; and
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
6.	
Provisions of the following Regulations and Guidelines 
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act,1992 (‘SEBI’) were not applicable to the 
Company under the financial year under report:
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993, regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client; and
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021.
We report that we have relied on the compliance certificates 
issued by its officers and taken on record by the Board of 
Directors at their meeting(s) for systems and mechanism 
formed by the Company for compliances under other applicable 
Acts, Laws and Regulations to the Company. For Income tax 
laws and compliance with applicable accounting standards we 
have relied on the Audit report issued by the Statutory Auditors. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
102
The following are the major head / group of Acts, Laws and 
Regulations as applicable to the Company:
a.	
Factories Act, 1948,
b.	
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951;
c.	
Labour Laws and other incidental laws related to labour 
and employees appointed by the Company either on its 
payroll or on contractual basis related to Salary & Wages, 
Bonus, Gratuity, Provident Fund, ESIC, Compensation and 
Benefits etc.
d.	
Competition Act, 2002
e.	
Consumer Protection Act, 2019
f.	
The Hazardous Waste (Management & Handling and 
Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2008.
g.	
Boilers Act, 1923
h.	
Gas Cylinders Rules, 2004
i.	
Standards of Weights & Measures (Enforcement) Act, 
1985
j.	
The Static & Mobile Pressure Vessels (Unfired) Rules, 
2018
k.	
Foreign Trade (Development & Regulation) Act, 1992
l.	
The Legal Metrology Act, 2009
m.	
Acts prescribed under Direct Tax and Indirect Tax Laws by 
the Central and respective State Governments.
n.	
Land Revenue laws of respective States;
o.	
Labour Welfare Act of respective States;
p.	
Trade Marks Act 1999 & Indian Copy Right Act 1957;
q.	
Acts prescribed under prevention and control of 
pollution;
r.	
Acts prescribed under Environmental protection;
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i) 	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
(ii) 	 The Listing Agreement entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited;
During the period under review the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards etc. mentioned above except for the following 
observation(s):
On March 17, 2025, both BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited levied a penalty of ₹10,000 
each (excluding GST) under Regulation 17(1A) of the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015, in relation to the continuation of 
Mr. Mahendra Doshi as an Independent Director beyond the 
age of 75 years. We were informed by the Management that the 
Company had obtained shareholder approval through a special 
resolution on December 4, 2024. However, prior to SEBI’s Third 
Amendment to the Listing Regulations (effective December 13, 
2024), Regulation 17(1A) did not specify a timeline for obtaining 
shareholders’ approval. The amendment clarified that such 
approval must be obtained either at the time of appointment or 
before attaining 75 years of age. Despite the amendment being 
prospective, the penalty was imposed. The Company submitted 
a waiver application in this behalf, which is currently pending 
with both the stock exchanges as on the date of this report.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the Company 
is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The 
changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance, and for meeting convened under 
shorter notice, if any, were in compliance with section 173(3) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting 
members’ views are captured and recorded as part of the 
minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, following 
specific events took place in relation to the Composite Scheme 
of Arrangement:
1.	
Effectiveness 
of 
the 
Composite 
Scheme 
of 
Arrangement:
	
On June 30, 2024, the Composite Scheme of Arrangement, 
of Raymond Limited (the ‘Demerged Company’ or ‘RL’) and 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (Formerly Known as Raymond 
Consumer Care Limited) (the ‘Resulting Company’) and 
Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited (the ‘Transferor 
Company’ ) and their respective shareholders (“Scheme”) 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 230 to 232 read 
with Section 66 and other applicable sections/ provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed 
thereunder, became effective and the lifestyle business 
of Raymond Limited was transferred to Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited.
2.	
Allotment of Shares Pursuant to the Scheme:
	
In accordance with the terms of the Scheme, the 
Committee for Allotment and Listing of Shares of the 
Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting held on 
July 17, 2024, allotted:
a.	
5,32,58,985 equity shares of ₹2/- each of Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited to the equity shareholders of 
Raymond Limited in the ratio of 4:5 (i.e., 4 shares 
of ₹2 each for every 5 shares of ₹10 each held in 
Raymond Limited); and
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
103
b.	
76,64,644 equity shares of ₹2/- each of Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited to the equity shareholders of Ray 
Global Consumer Trading Limited in the ratio of 2:1 
(i.e. 2 shares of ₹2/- each for every 1 share of ₹10/- 
each held in Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited).
3.	
Listing of shares on recognized Stock Exchanges:
	
The Company received trading approval from BSE 
Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited on 
September 5, 2024. Accordingly, the entire paid-up share 
capital comprising of 6,09,23,629 equity shares was 
listed and admitted to trading on the said exchanges on 
the same date.
4.	
Fractional Entitlements and Proceeds Distribution:
	
As per the provisions of the Scheme, fractional 
entitlements aggregating to 62,251 equity shares were 
allotted to a dematerialized account titled “Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited – Fractional Shares Account”, managed 
by Trustees appointed by the Board of Directors of the 
Company. The said shares were disposed of by the 
Trustees between November 26, 2024, and December 3, 
2024, at an average price of ₹2,037.43 per share, yielding 
net proceeds of ₹12,68,12,614 (net of ₹19,144 incurred 
towards selling expenses and taxes).
These net proceeds were distributed to the eligible shareholders 
in proportion to their fractional entitlements.
Note: A sum of ₹85,69,203 remains on hold due to non-
compliance with KYC requirements, in line with SEBI guidelines.
For DM & Associates Company Secretaries LLP
Company Secretaries
ICSI Unique Code L2017MH003500
Dinesh Kumar Deora
Partner
FCS NO 5683
Place: Mumbai 	
CP NO 4119
Date: May 12, 2025 	
UDIN: F005683G000315630
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date that 
is annexed as Annexure - I and forms an integral part of this 
report.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
104
ANNEXURE - I
To
The Members,
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
Plot G-35 & 36 MIDC
Waluj Taluka, Gangapur,
Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar– 431136
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events, etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules and regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For DM & Associates Company Secretaries LLP
Company Secretaries
ICSI Unique Code L2017MH003500
Dinesh Kumar Deora
Partner
FCS NO 5683
Place: Mumbai 	
CP NO 4119
Date: May 12, 2025 	
UDIN: F005683G000315630
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
105
Annual Report on CSR Activities
1.	
Brief outline of the Company’s CSR Policy:
	
Raymond Lifestyle CSR Philosophy
	
Raymond Lifestyle is deeply committed to upholding the principles of a responsible corporate citizen. Our Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives are strategically designed to ensure the equitable distribution of economic benefits derived from 
our operations, fostering active collaboration with credible institutions to contribute meaningfully to the social and economic 
development of the communities in which we operate.
	
Our commitment extends beyond conventional business objectives, focusing on the implementation of socially relevant 
activities that benefit society at large. We firmly believe in creating a positive impact by addressing critical societal needs.
	
The Company’s core CSR tenets are centered on:
•	
Affordable Education: Providing access to quality education for marginalized sections of society.
•	
Healthcare Access: Ensuring affordable healthcare services are available to those in need.
•	
Environmental Sustainability: Promoting practices that contribute to a healthier and more sustainable environment.
•	
Women Empowerment: Supporting initiatives that enhance the social and economic standing of women.
	
In furtherance of these resolutions, Raymond Lifestyle has actively collaborated with various esteemed institutions, diligently 
fulfilling its CSR obligations.
	
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company meticulously reviewed and approved projects which are aligned with the 
comprehensive CSR Policy duly approved by the Board of Directors. These projects reflect our unwavering dedication to our 
stated CSR philosophy and our commitment to making a tangible difference.
	
The web link to the CSR Policy:
	
https://raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Corporate-Social-Responsibility-Policy.pdf
2.	
The composition of the CSR Committee:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation /
Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of
CSR Committee attended
during the year
1
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
06943493
2
2
2
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
00123243
2
2
3
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
10748015
2
1
4
Mr. Veneet Nayar (upto 30.12.2024)
02007846
2
0
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are 
disclosed on the website of the company:
	
https://raymondlifestyle.com/disclosures/code_of_conduct
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance 
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy), Rules 2014, if applicable: 
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any : Not Applicable
6.	
Average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): ₹8935.85 Lakh
7.        (a)	
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5): ₹178.72 Lakh
(b)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
(c)	
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: NIL
(d)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b+7c): ₹ 179 Lakh (round off)
Annexure B
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
106
8. (a)	CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year
(₹ In Lakh)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
179
NIL
(b)	
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item 
from the 
list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in ₹)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
financial 
Year (in ₹)
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
for the 
project as 
per Section 
135(6) (in ₹)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct (Yes/
No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Through 
Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
NIL
(c) 	
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the project
Amount 
spent for 
the project 
(in ₹) (in 
Lakh)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct (Yes/
No)
Mode of Implementation - 
Through Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
1
Supporting family units and 
operational expenses of 
centres
Promoting 
Healthcare
No
Tamil Nadu
Assam
Rajasthan
West Bengal
Chennai
Guwahati, 
Jaipur
Kolkatta
30
No
St. Jude 
Childcare 
Centres
CSR00001026
2
Vocational training to cancer 
patients & their rehabilitation
Promoting 
Healthcare
Yes
Mahrashtra
Mumbai
25
No
Cancer 
Patients Aid 
Association
CSR00000926
3
Clubs Program & My Library 
for a Better Me Program
Promoting 
Education
No
Karnataka 
and Orissa
Tumakuru 
and Bargarh
20
No
Children’s 
Movement 
for Civic 
Awareness
CSR00000784
4
Rehabilitation of cancer 
patients
Promoting 
Healthcare
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
30
No
Indian Cancer 
Society
CSR00000792
5
Save the little Hearts
Promoting 
Healthcare
Yes
Maharashtra
Thane
39
No
Rotary Club 
of Thane 
Premium
CSR00024831
6
Educational support
Promoting 
Education
No
Andhra 
Pradesh
Hindupur
35
No
Smart Andhra 
Pradesh 
Foundation
CSR00008366
(d) 	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: NIL
(e) 	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not Applicable
(f) 	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [8b+8c+8d+8e]: ₹179 Lakh (round off)
(g)	
Excess amount for set off, if any:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
107
Sr. No.
Particulars
Amt. (₹in Lakh)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
178.72
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
179
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
0.28
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any
NIL
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
0.28
9  (a)	 Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under section 
135 (6) (in ₹)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR
Account under 
sub- section 
(6) of
section 135 
(in ₹)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year (in Rs)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per second 
proviso to sub- section (5) 
of section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial 
years (in ₹)
Deficiency, 
if any
Name of the 
Fund
Amount (in Rs)
Date of 
transfer
NIL
(b)	
Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Sl. 
No.
Project 
ID
Name 
of the 
Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total 
amount 
allocated for 
the project 
(in ₹)
Amount spent 
on the project 
in the reporting 
Financial Year 
(in Rs)
Cumulative 
amount spent at 
the end of reporting 
Financial Year. 
(in ₹)
Status of 
the project - 
Completed /
Ongoing
NIL
10.	
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR 
spent in the financial year- Not Applicable
	
(Asset-wise details)
(a)	
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s)
(b)	
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset
(c)	
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address 
etc.
(d)	
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset)
11.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5): Not 
Applicable
Gautam Hari Singhania
Anisha Motwani
Executive Chairman
Chairperson – Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
DIN: 00020088
DIN: 06943493
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
108
Contents of CSR Policy
Our aim is to be one of the most respected Companies in India delivering superior and sustainable value to all our customers, busi­
ness partners, shareholders, employees and host communities.
The CSR initiatives focus on holistic development of host communities and create social, environmental and economic value to the 
society.
The Company’s commitment to CSR projects and programs will be by investing resources into any of the following focus areas:
•	
Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition;
•	
Promotion of healthcare including preventive healthcare;
•	
Promotion of education and employment-enhancing vocational skills;
•	
Ensuring environmental sustainability and animal welfare including measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially & eco­
nomically backward groups;
Other focus areas as may be reviewed and included by the CSR Committee, from time to time, in line with the provisions of the Act 
and in line with the emerging societal circumstances and in consideration of changing national priorities of the government.
The CSR projects and programs may also be undertaken by Raymond Lifestyle Limited directly or with joint and collaborative efforts 
of other subsidiary and associate companies.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
109
Annexure C
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURE
I.	
 Details of the Listed Entity [GRI 2-1, 2-2, 2-3]
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L74999MH2018PLC316288
2
Name of the Listed Entity
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (RLL)
3
Year of incorporation
2018
4
Registered office address
Plot G-35 and G-36, MIDC Waluj, Taluka Gangapur, 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar, Maharashtra, India - 
431136
5
Corporate address
Jekegram, Pokharan Road No. 1, Thane, - 400606, 
Maharashtra, India.
6
E-mail
secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.in
7
Telephone
+91 22 61527000
8
Website
www.raymondlifestyle.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
FY 2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
1.	
BSE 
Limited 
(https://www.bseindia.com/
stock-share-price/raymond-lifestyle-ltd/
raymondlsl/544240/)
2.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(https://www.nseindia.com/get-quotes/
equity?symbol=RAYMONDLSL)
11
Paid-up Capital
INR 12,18,47,258
12
Contact Person
Name of the Person
Mrs. Priti Alkari - Company Secretary & 
Compliance  Officer 
Telephone
+91 22 6152 7000
Email address
Priti.Alkari@raymond.in
13
Reporting Boundary
Type of Reporting (Standalone / Consolidated)
Consolidated
14
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable since no assurance has been 
carried out for the reporting period
15
Type of assurance obtained
II. 	
Product/Services [GRI 2-6]
16
Details of 
business 
activities 
(accounting 
for 90% of the 
turnover)
S.No.
Description of Main 
Activity
Description of Business 
Activity
% Turnover of the Entity
1
Textile Business
Manufacturing & Trading of 
Suiting & Shirting Fabrics
60
2
Apparel Business
Wholesale and Retail Trading 
of Apparel and Non-Apparel 
Fashion Products
24
3
Garmenting Business
White labelled manufacturer 
and integrated supplier of higher 
value clothing products
16
17
Products/
Services sold 
by the entity 
contributing 
90% of total 
turnover
S.No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of Total Turnover contributed
1
Worsted - Suiting Fabric
13133
27
2
PV Fabric
13134
26
3
Men’s Shirts
14105
14
4
Men’s Trousers
14105
7
5
Men’s Suits
14105
5
6
Cotton - Shirting Fabric
13131
11
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
110
III.	
 Operations [GRI 2-6]
18 	
Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
No. of Offices
Total
National
9
3
12
International
0
1
1
19 	
Market served by the entity
a.	
No. of Locations
Locations
Numbers
National (No. of States)
27
International (No. of Countries)
47
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
22.4%
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
Raymond Lifestyle caters to both B2B (Business to Business) and B2C (Business to Customers) markets and on 
a pan-India basis, offers a wide range of products in the textile and apparel segments through a diverse portfolio 
of sub-brands such as Raymond Ready to Wear, Park Avenue, Ethnix etc. Raymond Lifestyle reaches consumers 
through its wide network of stores - The Raymond Shop (TRS), organized trade, e-commerce and franchisee stores.
IV.	
 Employees [GRI 2-7, 2-8, 405-1, 401-1]
20. 	 Details as at the end of Financial Year 2024-25:
a.	
Employees (including differently abled)
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (A)
2,811
2,503
89%
308
11%
2
Other than Permanent (B)
0
0
0%
0
0%
3
Total (A+B)
2,811
2,503
89%
308
11%
Workers
1
Permanent (E)
13,700
5,870
43%
7,830
57%
2
Other than Permanent (F)
6,000
5,232
87%
768
13%
3
Total (E+F)
19,700
11,102
56%
8,598
44%
b.	
Differently abled Employees
Employees
1
Permanent
5
5
100%
0
0%
2
Other than Permanent
0
0
0%
0
0%
3
Total
5
5
100%
0
0%
c.	
 Differently abled Workers:
Workers
1
Permanent
37
9
24%
28
76%
2
Other than Permanent
32
30
94%
2
6%
3
Total
69
39
57%
30
43%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
111
21.	
Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
S.No.
Category
Total (A)
No. and % of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
1
Board of Directors
10
1
10%
2
Key Managerial Personnel*
2
1
50%
	
*Definition of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) includes the Managing Directors (MDs), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and 
Company Secretary (CS) but as the MDs are included in Board of Directors, KMP here only includes CFO and CS.
22. 	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
16%
15%
16%
12%
14%
12%
12%
21%
13%
Permanent Workers
5%
72%
43%
9%
60%
37%
8%
59%
35%
V. 	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) [GRI 2-2]
S.No
Name of the holding / subsidiary 
/ associate companies / joint 
ventures
Indicate whether it is a 
holding / Subsidiary /
Associate / or Joint Venture
% Of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
Subsidiary
100%
No
2.
Celebrations Apparel Limited
Subsidiary
100%
No
3.
Ray Global Consumer Products 
Limited
Subsidiary
100%
No
4.
Silver Spark Apparel Limited
Subsidiary
100%
No
5.
Silver Spark Middle East FZE
Subsidiary
100%
No
6.
Silver Spark Apparel Ethiopia PLC
Subsidiary
100%
No
7.
Raymond America Apparel Inc
Subsidiary
100%
No
8.
R&A Logistics Inc.
Subsidiary
100%
No
9.
Raymond (Europe) Limited
Subsidiary
100%
No
10.
Jaykayorg S.A
Subsidiary
100%
No
VI. 	
CSR Details [GRI 201-1]:
24
a. Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013:
Yes
Turnover (in Rs. lakh)
4,68,128
Net worth (in Rs. lakh)
9,47,788
VII. 	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances [GRI 2-25]
	
Raymond Lifestyle has a strong whistleblower policy (Whistle Blower Policy.pdf) including non-retaliation clause available to 
all our stakeholders. Value Chain Partners, Communities, Employees and Workers can register their grievances through the 
Whistle-blower Hotline at www.raymond.ethicshelpline.in.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
112
25 	
Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct
Stakeholder
 group 
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/
No) If Yes, then provide web 
link for grievance redress 
policy
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes, the complaints of the
communities are redressed
in-person. An internal work
committee headed by HR
is also constituted which
works along with the BIA and 
Local Authorities to address 
the concerns on a quarterly 
basis.
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes, the complaints are
received by email and
forwarded to the respective
departments meant to
solve and the solutions
are directed via the same
channel https:/ 
raymondlifestyle.com 
investors/Investor Contact_
Details_Main
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Shareholders
Yes, complaints are either
received from Registrar and
Transfer Agents (RTA) or
through the SCORES portal
and the actions are uploaded 
in the portal to be viewed by 
the shareholder
18
1
-
Nil
-
-
Employees 
and workers
Yes, the grievance of the
employees and workers are
redressed through emails,
artificial chatbots (AMBER) or 
open forum meetings
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Customers
Yes, the customer complaints 
are redressed in the following 
ways:
• Case Management Tool:
Customer walk-ins and 
emails are captured in a case 
management tool. A case is 
generated and accordingly, 
the resolution is provided
• Traditional Method:
Complaints can be registered 
through the helpline, websites 
&
social media https://
raymondlifestyle.com/footer/
contact
6250
123
-
Nil
-
-
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes, the complaints pertaining 
to the value chain partners are 
redressed through one-on-
one interaction
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Other (please 
specify)
-
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
113
26 	
Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. Please indicate material responsible 
business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk 
or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, and approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along with its financial implications, as per the following format [GRI 3-1, 3-2, 3-3, 201-2]:
Sr. 
No.
Material 
Issue 
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for 
identifying the risk/
opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications
of the risk or 
opportunity
1
Climate
Change
Risk
The textile industry 
significantly 
contributes to 
greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, 
making it vulnerable to 
climate-induced risks 
such as supply chain 
disruptions, extreme 
weather events, and 
rising operational 
costs.
Raymond Lifestyle targets 
a 15% reduction in Scope 
1 & 2 GHG emissions by 
2030 (2024-25 baseline). 
Initiatives include rooftop 
solar installations, 
replacement of coal with 
biomass briquettes, motor 
upgrades, and waste heat 
recovery across facilities.
Increased capital 
expenditure for 
renewable energy 
installations and 
efficiency upgrades, 
offset by long-term 
cost savings and 
reduced compliance 
risks.
2
Water 
Management
Risk
Textile production 
relies heavily on water, 
especially in processes 
like dyeing and 
finishing. Given India’s 
increasing water 
scarcity and stringent 
environmental 
regulations, effective 
water management 
is essential for 
operational continuity 
and compliance.
Zero Liquid Discharge 
(ZLD) implemented at 
Chhindwara, aiming for 
full ZLD by 2030; 75% 
wastewater recycling 
at Kolhapur; upgraded 
effluent treatment plant 
(ETP) at Vapi; rainwater 
harvesting systems at all 
plants.
Capital investment 
and operational 
expenses in 
advanced water 
treatment systems; 
potential cost 
avoidance through 
reduced regulatory 
penalties and water 
procurement.
3
Waste 
Management
Risk
The textile sector 
generates substantial 
waste including fabric 
scraps, dyes, and 
packaging. Ineffective 
waste handling can 
result in regulatory 
non-compliance and 
reputational risks.
Comprehensive reclaimed 
packaging programmes 
established, including 
waste segregation and 
recycling at Bangalore, 
Vapi, Kolhapur, Amravati, 
Chhindwara, and Jalgaon. 
Hazardous and electronic 
waste disposal via certified 
vendors aligned with MPCB 
and ZDHC guidelines.
Reduction in 
disposal costs and 
potential revenue 
from recycling; 
avoidance of 
regulatory fines and 
enhanced brand 
value.
4
Energy 
Management
Opportunity
Energy represents 
a major operational 
cost in textiles. 
Energy efficiency 
and renewable 
energy adoption can 
significantly reduce 
operating expenses, 
aligning with India’s 
energy transition goals 
and sustainability 
trends.
Raymond Lifestyle targets 
25% renewable energy 
adoption by 2030. Key 
initiatives include solar 
installations, conversion to 
PNG from LPG, IE4 motor 
upgrades, turbo blowers, 
waste heat recovery, 
and IoT-based energy 
monitoring.
Long-term 
operational savings 
on energy expenses, 
improved operational 
resilience and 
reduced exposure 
to energy price 
fluctuations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
114
Sr. 
No.
Material 
Issue 
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for 
identifying the risk/
opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications
of the risk or 
opportunity
5
Inclusion and 
Diversity
Opportunity
A diverse workforce 
is vital in a labour-
intensive sector like 
textiles, fostering 
innovation, employee 
satisfaction, and 
compliance with global 
social responsibility 
standards, particularly 
in India’s diverse 
demographic context.
Target set for 40% female 
representation by 2030. 
Initiatives include inclusive 
recruitment practices, 
leadership development 
programmes, and 
diversity training across all 
employee levels.
Lower turnover 
costs, enhanced 
innovation 
capacity, and 
improved employer 
brand resulting 
in a competitive 
advantage.
6
Health, 
Safety, and 
Wellbeing
Risk
The apparel industry’s 
inherent risks from 
machinery and 
chemical usage pose 
significant health 
and safety concerns. 
Failure to manage 
these effectively could 
negatively impact 
productivity, employee 
retention, and legal 
compliance.
Zero fatalities 
goal maintained; 
comprehensive health 
and safety training 
programmes, regular 
safety audits, incident 
management protocols, 
and rehabilitation support 
for affected workers.
Avoidance of 
regulatory penalties, 
lower healthcare and 
insurance costs and 
sustained workforce 
productivity.
7
Governance
Opportunity
Robust governance 
structures underpin 
ethical business 
practices, regulatory 
adherence, 
stakeholder trust, 
and long-term 
sustainability in a 
highly competitive 
and regulated global 
market.
100% independent 
directors on all Board 
committees; robust policy 
frameworks and regular 
sustainability oversight at 
the Board level.
Improved investor 
confidence, lower 
cost of capital 
and mitigation of 
reputational and 
compliance risks.
8
Data Privacy 
and Security
Risk
Increased digitalisation 
of operations and 
customer interactions 
heightens exposure 
to cyber threats and 
privacy breaches, 
risking customer 
trust and potentially 
incurring regulatory 
penalties and 
reputational damage.
Implementation 
of comprehensive 
cybersecurity and data 
privacy policies, regular 
third-party security audits, 
penetration testing and 
employee awareness 
initiatives on cyber risks 
and incident response 
protocols.
Prevention of 
financial losses 
associated with 
cyber incidents, 
avoidance of 
regulatory fines, 
and protection of 
brand reputation and 
customer trust.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
115
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and Management Processes
1.
a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No) [GRI 
2-23, 2-11]
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b. Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No) [GRI 2-23, 2-11]
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available 
[GRI 2-23, 2-11]
https://raymondlifestyle.com/disclosures/code_of_conduct (Refer the policy 
mapping below)
2.
Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No) [GRI 
2-24, 2-10]
Yes
3.
Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No) [GRI 
2-23]
Yes
4.
Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ standards 
(e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
1.	
IS0 14001:2015
2.	
ISO 45001:2018
3.	
RWS (Vapi,Jalgaon and Chhindwara Plants)
4.	
GRS (Vapi, Jalgaon, Chhindwara Plants)
5.	
Oekotex standard 100
6.	
HIGG INDEX (Vapi Plant, SSAL unit 1 and 2)
7.	
European Flax certification (Amravati and Kolhapur plants)
8.	
Better cotton initiative (Kolhapur plant)
9.	
OCS certificate (Amravati and Kolhapur Plant)
10.	 ISO 13485:2016 (Aurangabad plant), EU MDR 2017/745
11.	 Great Place To Work certified
12.	 WRAP Certification (SSAL unit 1 and 2)
13.	 Amfori certification (SSAL unit 1 and 2)
14.	 Fair trade certification (Kolhapur plant)
15.	 European flax certification (Amravati and Kolhapur plants)
16.	 GOTS certification (Vapi, Amravati and Kolhapur plants)
17.	 Oekotex 100 certification (Vapi, Amravati and Kolhapur plants)
18.	 ISO 13485:2016 (Aurangabad plant)
19.	 EU MDR 2017/745
5.
Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any. [GRI 3-3]
•	
15% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions by 2030 from 2024-25 
baseline
•	
25% Renewable Energy Target by 2030
•	
Zero Waste to Landfill
•	
Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) by 2030 at Chhindwara
•	
Single-Digit Employee Turnover Rate
•	
ZERO Fatalities in Workplace Safety
•	
40% overall female representation (employees and workers) by 2030
•	
100% Independent Directors on Committees
6.
Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals and 
targets along with reasons in case the 
same are not met. [GRI 3-3]
•	
15% of total electricity consumption came from renewable sources in FY 
2024–25.
•	
Advanced ZLD system under expansion to enable 100% effluent recycling at 
Chhindwara.
•	
NOx emissions reduced by 23.7%
•	
Recycled waste increased by 11.9%
•	
Plastic waste generation decreased by 26%
•	
4,81,728 KL of treated water discharged post-tertiary treatment.
•	
39.5% of total workforce comprised of female employees and workers.
•	
Employee turnover stood at 16% for FY 2024–25.
•	
57% of employees trained on health and safety (up from 44%).
•	
35% of employees received skill upgradation training (up from 17%).
•	
Spending on employee well-being increased to 0.30% of revenue (from 
0.24%).
•	
Zero fatalities reported in FY 2024–25
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
116
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Anti-Corruption 
& Anti Bribery 
Policy
Suppliers 
Code of 
Conduct
Safety Policy
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy
Human 
Rights 
Policy
Environment 
Policy
Code of 
Conduct & 
Ethics
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy
Code of 
Conduct & 
Ethics
Code of Conduct 
& Ethics
Environment 
Policy
Human Rights 
Policy
Biodiversity 
Policy
Suppliers Code 
of Conduct
Ethical 
Marketing and 
Advertising 
Policy
Nomination, 
Remuneration & 
Board Diversity 
Policy
Whistle Blower 
Policy
Fair Disclosure 
Code
Tax Policy
Materiality Policy
Related Party 
Transaction 
Policy
Whistle Blower 
Policy
Governance, Leadership and Oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the 
business responsibility report, highlighting 
ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements [GRI 2-22, 2-12]
For a sustainable tomorrow, Raymond Lifestyle has accelerated its 
sustainability journey, significantly expanding its coverage and enhancing 
its initiatives. The Company has confronted several ESG challenges during 
the year, including the deployment of advanced water-management and 
ZLD systems across diverse sites, the integration of large-scale renewable-
energy projects without disrupting operations, and the reinforcement of 
governance and diversity practices at the board and committee levels.
Building on last year’s milestones—most notably the final phases of ZLD 
at Chhindwara and the harvesting of 60,000 KL of rainwater at Vapi—the 
Company has established clear targets for 2030. These include a 15% 
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from a 2024–25 baseline, 
adoption of renewable energy for 25% of its power requirements, 
elimination of waste to landfill, full Zero Liquid Discharge at Chhindwara, 
maintenance of a single-digit employee turnover rate, zero workplace 
fatalities, 40% overall female representation across employees and 
workers, and 100 % Independent Directors on all Committees.
Significant progress has already been achieved in pursuit of these goals. The 
advanced ZLD plant at Chhindwara is fully operational, while wastewater 
recycling at Kolhapur has reached 75%. At Vapi, a 640 kW rooftop 
solar installation has been commissioned, complemented by energy-
efficiency upgrades such as waste-heat recovery, IE4 motor retrofits, and 
turbo-blower installations across multiple facilities. A comprehensive 
reclaimed-packaging programme now operates across all manufacturing 
sites—segregating and recycling fabric off-cuts, cardboard, plastics 
and electronic waste through certified vendors. Hazardous chemicals 
and process wastes are managed in strict compliance with MPCB and 
ZDHC guidelines, further reducing environmental impact and enhancing 
resource efficiency.
These concerted efforts underscore Raymond Lifestyle’s unwavering 
commitment to environmental stewardship, social responsibility and 
robust governance as the Company advances resolutely toward its ESG 
objectives.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
117
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible 
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility policy (ies). [GRI 
2-13]
ESG Committee is responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues. The Committee inter alia approves the ESG strategy and 
provide oversight to the execution of the Company’s ESG initiatives 
including the short-term and long-term commitments or targets.
Composition of the Environmental Sustainability Governance (ESG) 
Committee is as follows:
1.	
Mr. G.C. Chaturvedi (Chairperson)
2.	
Mrs. Anisha Motwani (Member)
3.	
Mr. Rajiv Sharma (Member)
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee 
of the Board/ Director responsible for 
decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details. [GRI 
2-9]
10. 	Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against 
above policies and follow 
up action
ESG Committee
Annually
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance 
to the principles, and 
rectification of any non-
compliances
ESG Committee
Annually and as & when required as per
regulatory requirements
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation 
of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
yes, provide name of the agency [GRI 2-5]
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
It is covered under Internal audit review conducted 
by EY LLP
12. 	If all Principles are not covered by a policy, reasons to be stated.
Questions
P 1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
118
BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN A 
MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE.
PRINCIPLE 
1
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year [GRI 
2-17, 2-24]:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the 
training and its impact
% age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
2
Code of Conduct, Governance and 
Regulatory Requirements
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
2
Code of Conduct, Governance and 
Regulatory Requirements
100%
Employees other than 
BODs and KMPs
40
Strategic Development “Leadership and 
Managerial Development “ Employee 
Well-being and Safety Operational 
& Functional Excellence Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion Customer Centricity 
Digitalization Tactical Skills
51.97%
Workers (Contractual)
123
Employee Well-being and Safety 
Ethics and Compliance Operational & 
Functional Excellence Tactical Skills 
Financial Literacy
100%
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format. [GRI 2-27]
a.	
Monetary
Type
 NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount 
(In INR)
Brief of the case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Principle 1
BSE Ltd
10,000
Noncompliance of the 
provisions specified 
under regulation 17 (1A) 
of SEBI (LODR), 2015
No
Principle 1
National Stock Exchange 
of India
10,000
Noncompliance of the 
provisions specified 
under regulation 17 (1A) 
of SEBI (LODR), 2015
No
Principle 6
Madhya Pradesh Electricity 
Regulatory Commission
45,000
Failure to comply with 
the RPO target
No
Settlement
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Compounding fee
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
119
b. Non-Monetary
Type
 NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed. [GRI 2-27]
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide 
a web link to the policy. [GRI 2-23, 3-3]
	
Yes, Raymond Lifestyle Limited has an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy. https://raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Anti-
Corruption-and-Anti-Bribery-Policy.pdf
	
The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy lays out the spirit and guiding principles for all stakeholders to ensure 
compliance with the applicable laws, rules, and regulations. The objective of the policy is to ensure that appropriate anti-
corruption and antibribery procedures are in place across the Company to avoid any violations of applicable laws and 
regulations. The key objective of the policy is to prevent bribery related risk exposures by implementing processes, training 
and awareness activities that ensure Compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws and awareness about Raymond Lifestyle’s 
emphasis on ethical business practices and its zero tolerance approach towards conduct that is in breach of the Policy. Any 
complaints or concerns in actual or potential deviation, violation or exception to these guidelines be dealt with investigation 
and management procedure as applicable under whistleblower guidelines of the Company
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption [GRI 205-1, 205-3]:
Category
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest [GRI 2-25, 2-15]:
Topic
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
 (Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
-
Nil
-
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of KMPs
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. [GRI 
205-3]
	
Not Applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
120
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following 
format:
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of days of accounts payables
171
154
9.	
Open-ness of business: Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and 
related parties along-with loans and advances & investments with related parties in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Concentration
of Purchases
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
0
0
b.	
Number of trading houses where purchases are made 
from
0
0
c.	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
0
0
Concentration
of Sales
a.	
Sales to dealers /distributors as % of total sales
53.3%
55.4%
b.	
Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
7450
6289
c.	
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
11.9%
6.9%
Share of RPTs in
a.	
Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
13.7%
7.6%
b.	
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
3.0%
5.5%
c.	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties / Total loans & advances)
100%
100%
d.	
Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
23%
27%
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year [GRI 
2-24]:
Total number of training and 
awareness programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the 
training and its impact
% age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the 
awareness programmes
1
Environment, Climate Change and 
Sustainability Reporting
30%
	
An awareness programme was conducted for suppliers, addressing critical topics such as environmental protection, climate 
change, and sustainability reporting. The objective of the session was to enhance suppliers’ understanding of the environmental 
impacts associated with supply chain activities and to emphasize the importance of adopting sustainable business practices. 
The programme included discussions on current climate challenges, regulatory expectations, and the role of transparent 
sustainability reporting in building responsible value chains.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same. [GRI 2-10, 2-15]
	
The Code of Conduct provides guidance to manage conflicts of interest, it states that, “The Directors and each Employee of 
the Company must not allow personal interest to conflict with the interest of the Company or to come in the way of discharge 
of duties of the office.” Also, as per the requirements of the Companies Act, the disclosure of interest is required to be given by 
the Directors in prescribed Form MBP-1 which is brought to the attention at a Board Meeting and taken on record. Further, any 
transaction in which any Director is interested is brought to the attention of the Board and the interested Director (if any) does 
not participate in that discussion.
	
The weblink for the Code of Conduct: https://raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Code-of-Conduct-and-Ethics.pdf
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
121
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Type
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Details of improvement in 
social and environmental 
aspects
Research & Development (R&D)
-
-
-
Capital Expenditure (CAPEX)
13.64%
13.7%
Water Treatment, Renewable 
Energy, Energy Efficiency
2.         a. 	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) [GRI 308-1, 414-1]
	
Yes
 b. 	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? [GRI 308-1, 414-1]
	
During the reporting period, the company took significant steps towards integrating sustainable materials into its 
manufacturing processes:
•	
Shirting Fabrics: 5.78% of total cotton yarn procured was certified under GOTS and the Better Cotton Initiative 
(BCI). Additionally, 100% of flax fibre purchased for shirting production was European Flax® certified, ensuring full 
traceability, GMO-free cultivation, and no artificial irrigation.
•	
Suiting Fabrics: 2.45% of polyester staple fibre was sourced with GRS certification, 0.21% of polyester-viscose 
blended yarn was certified and 5.42% of wool was RWS certified, reflecting a commitment to sustainable and 
responsible fibre procurement.
•	
Garment Manufacturing: Sustainable sourcing extended to garments, with 0.8% of fabric procured as organic, 
10% as recycled fabric, 4% as recycled lining fabric and 2.4% as recycled label materials.
	
These efforts underscore our ongoing commitment to responsible sourcing, supporting supply chain transparency 
and positive environmental impact.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, 
for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste. [GRI 3-3, 306-2]
Process Description
(a)	 Plastics (including
packaging)
At our facilities, plastic waste is managed through a structured process. At the Bangalore 
plant, plastic bags and carton boxes are systematically segregated for recycling or repurposed 
for internal use. The Kolhapur facility places significant emphasis on reclaiming packaging 
materials associated with fabric roll dispatch, ensuring that plastics are carefully sorted 
alongside other recyclables. Furthermore, our Chhindwara and Jalgaon plants channel all 
plastic waste to registered recyclers, demonstrating our commitment to environmentally 
responsible practices.
(b)	 E-waste
Electronic waste is managed with rigorous adherence to environmental standards. At 
the Bangalore plant, outdated IT equipment and other electronic devices are collected at 
designated e-waste points and directed to certified recycling centers. Similarly, the Vapi plant 
ensures that e-waste is processed through authorized channels with proper documentation 
maintained for compliance. In addition, both Chhindwara and Jalgaon plants channel their 
electronic waste to registered refurbishers or recyclers, ensuring that all e-waste is disposed of 
in an environmentally sound manner.
BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE 
AND SAFE
PRINCIPLE 
2
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
122
Process Description
(C)	 Hazardous waste
Our approach to hazardous waste management is stringent and safety-focused. At the 
Bangalore and Vapi plants, hazardous materials—including machine oil, chemical residues, 
and toxic substances—are segregated immediately, stored in clearly labeled, secure containers, 
and disposed of via certified hazardous waste collectors. The Kolhapur facility employs strict 
processing protocols that align with regulatory guidelines, while both Chhindwara and Jalgaon 
plants manage hazardous waste through approved treatment processes or specialized 
collection systems, thereby mitigating potential environmental risks.
(d)	 Other waste
For non-hazardous and residual waste streams, our facilities have established robust 
management practices that maximize recycling and reuse. At the Amravati plant, residual 
materials from production processes are effectively segregated and directed either for recycling 
or internal re-utilization. Similarly, the Kolhapur and Vapi plants consolidate other waste types, 
sorting them by material type before sending them to scrap yards or specialized recyclers. This 
systematic approach ensures that all waste, even non-hazardous materials, is managed in an 
environmentally responsible and sustainable manner.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes.
	
We confirm that Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to Raymond Lifestyle Limited (RLL). However, the EPR 
filing for the previous financial year 2023-2024 has been completed for Raymond Limited (RL), as the lifestyle business was still 
part of Raymond Limited.
	
Explanation of Filing:
	
As the lifestyle business was previously part of Raymond Limited, the EPR filing for 2023-2024 was made under Raymond 
Limited. However, following the demerger between Raymond Limited and Raymond Lifestyle Limited, effective from 30th June 
2024, all rights, obligations, and liabilities related to the lifestyle business were transferred to Raymond Lifestyle Limited.
	
As a result, for the upcoming period, we will be filing the EPR documentation under Raymond Lifestyle Limited (RLL) for the 
2024-2025 financial year and beyond, as it will now be the responsible entity for the lifestyle business.
	
As the filing date for 2024-2025 is scheduled for a later period, we are hereby submitting the figures for the metric tonnes of 
plastic packaging recycled for the year 2023-2024, in compliance with the EPR regulations as filed by Raymond Limited.
	
Demerger Details:
	
The demerger was approved by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench, through its Order dated 21st June 
2024 in Company Petition No. C.P.(CAA)/38(MB)/2024 c/w C.A.(CAA)/281(MB)/2023.
	
Effective from 30th June 2024, the entire lifestyle business undertaking of Raymond Limited, including its investments in related 
subsidiaries, contracts, agreements, properties, employees, assets, and liabilities, was demerged into Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited. Therefore, while the filing for 2023-2024 was made under Raymond Limited, post-demerger, the filing responsibility 
now rests with Raymond Lifestyle Limited.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
No Life Cycle Assessment has been carried out for any product of the Company during the year under review.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, 
briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same. [GRI 3-3, 306-1, 306-2]:
	
Not applicable since no Life Cycle Assessment has been carried out for any product of the Company during the year under 
review.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
123
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry). [GRI 301-1, 301-2]
Indicate Input Material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Label
2.42%
2.27%
Fabric
10.65%
1.76%
Trims
0.07%
5.29%
Lining
4.17%
1.42%
Cotton yarn
0.01%
0.01%
Polyester Tow
1.47%
0.40%
Spun Yarn
0.21%
0.21%
Polyester Staple Fibre
2.45%
1.42%
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and 
safely disposed, as per the following format [GRI 301-2, 301-3]:
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
0
0*
0
0
252*
0
E-waste
0
0
0
0
0
0
Hazardous waste
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other waste
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
*As the lifestyle business was previously part of Raymond Limited, the EPR filing for 2023-2024 was made under Raymond 
Limited. However, following the demerger between Raymond Limited and Raymond Lifestyle Limited, effective from 30th June 
2024, all rights, obligations, and liabilities related to the lifestyle business were transferred to Raymond Lifestyle Limited. As a 
result, for the upcoming period, we will be filing the EPR documentation under Raymond Lifestyle Limited (RLL) for the 2024-
2025 financial year and beyond, as it will now be the responsible entity for the lifestyle business. As the filing date for 2024-2025 
is scheduled for a later period, we are hereby submitting the figures for the metric tonnes of plastic packaging recycled for the 
year 2023-2024, in compliance with the EPR regulations as filed by Raymond Limited.
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category. [GRI 
301-2, 301-3]:
	
Raymond Lifestyle is committed to advancing circularity and responsible resource use across its operations. While formal 
processes for reclaiming products and packaging materials are not currently in place, the company continues to evaluate 
opportunities to implement such initiatives in alignment with industry best practices and evolving regulatory expectations. 
Raymond Lifestyle remains focused on exploring innovative solutions to enhance the recyclability and sustainability of its 
products and packaging, as part of its broader sustainability agenda.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
124
Essential Indicators
1.        a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees [GRI 401-2]:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
Facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
%(C/A)
No.(D)
%(D/A)
No. (E)
%(E/A)
No. (F)
%(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
2503
2503
100%
2503
100%
0
0%
2503
100%
2503
100%
Female
308
308
100%
308
100%
308
100%
0
0%
308
100%
Total
2503
2503
100%
2503
100%
0
0%
2503
100%
2503
100%
Other than Permanent
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
b. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of Workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
Facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
%(C/A)
No.(D)
%(D/A)
No. (E)
%(E/A)
No. (F)
%(F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
5870
5698
97%
5870
100%
NA
NA
76
1%
5870
100%
Female
7830
7830
100%
7830
100%
7830
100%
NA
NA
7830
100%
Total
13700
13528
99%
13700
100%
7830
100%
76
1%
13700
100%
Other than Permanent
Male
5,232
5006
96%
5232
100%
NA
NA
1983
38%
5232
100%
Female
768
759
98%
768
100%
759
98%
NA
NA
768
100%
Total
6000
5765
96%
6000
100%
759
100%
1983
33%
6000
100%
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, 
INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
PRINCIPLE 
3
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
125
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format –
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of 
the company
0.30%
0.24%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year [GRI-201-3]:
Sr.No.
Benefits
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
worker
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
worker
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
1
PF
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
2
Gratuity
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
3
ESIC*
100%
100%
-
100%
100%
-
4
Superannuation
1.6%
0%
Y
2.0%
0%
Y
5
NPS#
9.0%
0%
Y
8.4%
0%
Y
	
* All the employees who are eligible for ESIC have been considered
	
# Employees who have opted for NPS have been considered
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and 
workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are 
being taken by the entity in this regard. [GRI 3-3]
	
Yes, Raymond Lifestyle seeks to ensure that our premises and offices reflect the intent of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016, by providing practical access measures across our sites. The corporate office of the entity and the Plants are accessible 
to specially abled employees. For the specially abled employees, we have provided the necessary infrastructure wherever 
required. The company is continuously working towards improving infrastructure for eliminating barriers to accessibility.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide 
a web-link to the policy. [GRI 3-3]
	
Yes, Raymond Lifestyle’s commitment to providing equal opportunities is integrated into our broader Human Rights and 
Prevention of Discrimination at Workplace policies which include matters related to equal opportunity for individuals with 
disabilities as well. These policies affirm our zero-tolerance approach to any form of discrimination—including on the basis of 
disability—in all aspects of employment.
	
For further details, you may refer to our Human Rights Policy available at the following link: https://raymondlifestyle.com/
uploads/Human-Rights-Policy.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave [GRI 401-3]
Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
NA
NA
Female
100%
100%
40%
14%
Total
100%
100%
40%
14%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
126
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief. [GRI 2-25]
Category
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes, Permanent workers have access to multiple formal channels for raising concerns. They may 
bring issues to statutory Grievance, Safety and Works Committees, speak directly with HR help 
desks situated on the shop floor, or submit feedback via suggestion boxes. Informal channels 
like discussion with Union representatives, Plant heads, Head - HR’s are available as effective 
grievance redressal mechanisms.
Other than Permanent 
Workers
Yes, non-permanent workers enjoy the same committee representation—Grievance, Safety 
and Works—as permanent colleagues, and can use HR touchpoints such as the shop-floor 
helpdesk or suggestion boxes. In addition, every fortnight we convene contractor meetings where 
workmen’s grievances are tabled, discussed and resolved, and one-to-one interactions ensure 
individual concerns receive personal attention.
Permanent Employees
Yes, Permanent office employees can escalate matters through formal committees or direct 
management engagement in Expresso Chat and Confluence meetings. They also have access to 
tech-enabled portals via QR codes and the AMBER AI Chatbot, alongside a Whistleblower policy 
and Ethics Hotline for sensitive or anonymous reporting.
Other than Permanent 
Employees
Yes, Contractual and other non-permanent office staff may use the same digital complaint 
portals, HR-led town halls and formal committees as permanent employees. Where grievances 
relate to administrative or performance matters, departmental or HR-led reviews are conducted 
promptly to ensure swift resolution.
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity [GRI 2-30, GRI 402-1, 
GRI 407-1]:
Category
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total employees 
/ workers in
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in
respective 
category, who are
part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total employees 
/ workers in
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in
respective 
category, who are
part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
%(D/C)
Permanent Employees
Male
2,503
0
0%
2,425
0
0%
Female
308
0
0%
291
0
0%
Total
2,811
0
0%
2,716
0
0%
Permanent Workers
Male
5,870
5,633
96%
6,102
5,679
93%
Female
7,830
195
2%
7,701
196
3%
Total
13,700
5,828
43%
13,803
5,875
43%
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers [GRI 403-5, GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2]
Category
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
On Health & 
Safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health & 
Safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees
Male
2,503
832
33%
941
38%
2,425
553
23%
462
19%
Female
308
73
24%
33
11%
291
61
21%
13
4%
Total
2,811
905
57%
974
35%
2716
614
44%
475
17%
Workers
Male
5,870
3,701
63%
2,463
42%
6,102
4,309
71%
1,869
31%
Female
7,830
7,734
99%
1,434
18%
7,701
7,630
99%
695
9%
Total
13,700
11,435
83%
3,897
28%
13,803
11,939
86%
2,564
19%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
127
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker [GRI 404-3]:
Category
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total employees 
/ workers in
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in
respective 
category, who had 
a career review (B)
% (B/A)
Total employees 
/ workers in
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in
 respective 
category, who had 
a career review (D)
% 
(D/C)
Employees
Male
2,503
2,028
81%
2,425
1,854
76%
Female
308
222
72%
291
188
65%
Total
2,811
2,250
80%
2,716
2,042
75%
Workers
Male
5,870
89
2%
6,102
83
1%
Female
7,830
1,370
17%
7,701
675
9%
Total
13,700
1,459
11%
13,803
758
5%
Note:
1.	
In workers under textile only Sub Staff of Chhindwara covered.
2.	
In Garmenting only workers who meet the eligibility criteria for review are considered for review and promoted to next 
grade.
10.	
Health and safety management system [GRI 403-1, GRI 403-2, GRI 403-4, GRI 403-6]:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and 
safety management system has been
implemented by the entity? (Yes/No)
Yes, a robust Occupational Health and Safety Management System 
has been implemented across all manufacturing plants, ensuring 
maximum coverage for our employees. This system is aligned with 
international standards and certified under ISO 45001:2018. In addition, 
the organization fosters a strong safety culture through regular trainings, 
safety inductions for new employees and visitors, and continuous 
reinforcement of safe practices like mock drills, visible safety signage etc.
a.	
What is the coverage of such system?
100%
b.	
What are the processes used to identify 
work-related hazards and assess risks 
on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity?
To proactively identify work-related hazards, our facilities conduct routine 
risk assessments and comprehensive safety audits. These assessments 
employ a systematic approach using key control measures, ensuring 
that both routine and non-routine risks are effectively identified and 
mitigated. The process includes toolbox talk, safety rounds, semi-annual 
evaluations and annual independent third-party audits to verify the 
efficacy of our risk management practices.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers 
to report the work-related hazards and to 
remove themselves from such risks. (Yes/
No)
Yes
a.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity 
have access to non-occupational medical 
and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
Yes
11.	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format [GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10]:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-2024
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0.49
0.72
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
20
34
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High-consequence work-related injury or ill health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
	
*Including in the contract workforce
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
128
12.	
Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. [GRI 3-3, GRI 403-2, GRI 403-9, GRI 
403-10]
	
The company ensures a safe and healthy workplace through several key measures. These include daily toolbox talks, hazard 
identification, and induction training for new employees and workers. We also provide health and safety awareness training 
and run motivational programs to promote safety culture. Routine safety site walk-throughs, regular audits, and inspections are 
conducted to identify and address potential risks. Additionally, monthly safety reports help keep track of safety performance 
and ensure continuous improvement.
13.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers [GRI 2-25]:
	
The Company encourage proactive identification of health hazards and safety risk so that the same can be plugged / corrected 
before any incident.
Topic
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Filed during
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
8
1
All issues 
closed except 1, 
which is work in 
process
16
0
All Issues Closed
Health & Safety
6
1
All issues 
closed except 1, 
which is work in 
process
8
0
All Issues Closed
14.	
Assessments for the year [GRI 3-3]:
Topic
 % of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
	
Note: 100% during the certification audits such as WRAP, BSCI & SLCP
15.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions. [GRI 3-3, 
GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10]
	
Across all businesses, Raymond Lifestyle has implemented proactive measures to address safety-related incidents and mitigate 
significant risks identified through routine health and safety assessments. The company has established a comprehensive 
Group Accidental Policy to ensure that employees and workmen are protected in the event of an incident.
	
Regular safety audits, including incident investigations and the use of specialized software at facilities such as Vapi and 
Jalgaon, ensure that corrective actions are taken promptly. Corrective and Preventive Action is a routine activity and Hazard 
Identification and Risk Assessment sheets are regularly updated to further strengthen and foolproof the system across all 
plants. In addition, at all Textile plants, updated HIRA registers—including provisions for social and psychological hazards—
and dedicated Contractor OHS Audit checklists are maintained to drive continuous improvements. Minor injuries resulting 
from unsafe acts are promptly addressed, with immediate reporting and corrective follow-up ensuring a safe and resilient work 
environment throughout the organization.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of the death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N)? [GRI 401]
(A) 	
Employees Yes
(B)	
 Workers Yes
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
129
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by 
the value chain partners
	
TDS deducted & deposited by our customers (value chain partners) is monitored and accounted for in SAP accordingly. Further, 
contractors are required to provide all the statutory documentation. As contractees, we are responsible for compliance of PF 
and ESIC payments by contractors and the above process is followed to ensure the same.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health 
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment [GRI 3-3]:
Category
 Total no. of affected
employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
Nil
Workers
	
*Not applicable since zero high consequence work-related injury or ill-health and fatalities.
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No). [GRI 404-2]
	
Raymond Lifestyle does not maintain a formal, company-wide transition assistance policy. Nonetheless, we recognize the value 
of our long-serving colleagues’ expertise and, on a case-by-case basis, may extend employment beyond retirement or engage 
retiring employees as consultants on a retainership basis. This approach enables us to leverage their industry knowledge and 
professional networks, while providing individuals with continued opportunities to contribute to projects aligned with their 
experience.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners [GRI 414-2]:
Topic
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
	
While a formal value chain partner assessment programme is not currently in place, Raymond Lifestyle Limited maintains a 
robust supplier onboarding process. Prior to onboarding any new supplier, RLL conducts a factory evaluation covering key 
aspects of workplace conditions, including the availability of toilets, drinking water, fire extinguishers and other basic health 
and safety facilities. These checks help ensure that fundamental workplace standards are met at the outset of every supplier 
relationship.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. [GRI 414-2]
	
Raymond Lifestyle Limited places importance on workplace safety and compliance within its value chain. While a formal health 
and safety assessment program was not implemented during the reporting period, the company reviews basic workplace 
conditions—such as the availability of toilets, drinking water, and fire extinguishers—during supplier onboarding. As of now, 
no formal corrective actions have been initiated relating to health and safety practices or working conditions of value chain 
partners. RLL remains attentive to supplier practices and is prepared to take appropriate action if any concerns are identified in 
the future.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
130
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity [GRI 2-29]:
	
Our stakeholder engagement process begins with the identification of key internal and external stakeholder groups, followed by 
an assessment of their roles and contributions to our day-to-day business activities. Each stakeholder group plays an important 
part in creating shared value for the company. Stakeholders are further categorized as internal or external based on the nature 
of their association with RLL.
	
Key stakeholder mapping:
•	
Internal stakeholders: Employees and contractors
•	
External stakeholders: Shareholders, investors, value chain partners, customers and the community
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group [GRI 3-1, GRI 2-29]:
Stakeholder
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/others – please
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key topics 
and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Shareholders
No
Email, Post, Newspaper 
notices, Website, Meetings- 
like AGM, Postal ballot
Quarterly
Statutory Communication
Investors
No
Meetings, Calls, One-on-one 
interactions
Quarterly, Investor 
calls on ad-hoc 
basis
Statutory Communication and 
company performance on financial 
and sustainability parameters and 
reports
Value Chain 
Suppliers
No
Meetings, Calls, One-on-one 
interactions
On ad-hoc basis
Company requirements and terms 
of trade
Employees and 
Contractors
No
Emails, Townhall, Sessions, 
Meetings, One-on-one 
interaction
Continual
Occupational health and safety, 
Career planning and development, 
Employee welfare programs, 
Collective bargaining/freedom of 
association, Code of Conduct and 
corporate policies, Training, skill up-
gradation and continuous learning 
of all employees
Customer
No
Email, SMS, Newspaper 
campaigns, Website
Continual
New products, Fashion Updates, 
Launches, Campaigns, to 
understand the Issues, Order 
Booking, Customer Survey
Community
Some 
communities 
identified
Community meetings, CSR 
initiatives
Continual
CSR Initiatives, Human rights, 
Community developments
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS 
STAKEHOLDERS
PRINCIPLE 
4
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
131
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. [GRI 2-12, GRI 
2-13, GRI 2-29]
	
Raymond Lifestyle Limited places a strong emphasis on stakeholder engagement as a means to foster meaningful dialogue and 
gain insights into key business and societal concerns. We actively discuss economic, environmental, and social topics with our 
stakeholders. Information pertinent to these discussions is consistently communicated to the Board of Directors.
	
Through the oversight of the ESG Committee, the Board reviews and guides the company’s social responsibility commitments 
and sustainability initiatives, ensuring alignment with strategic objectives.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these 
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. [GRI 3-1]
	
Yes, Engaging stakeholders on important issues lies at the heart of how the Company does business. The Company engages 
with relevant stakeholder platforms that are used to seek relevant expertise and support to address environment and social 
topics. It has put in place systems and procedures to identify, prioritize and address the needs and concerns of its stakeholders 
across businesses in a continuous and consistent manner.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups. [GRI 2-29]
	
The Company has demonstrated a strong commitment to engaging with and addressing the concerns of vulnerable and 
marginalized stakeholder groups through various CSR initiatives. One such initiative is the support provided to marginalized 
children and children with disabilities. The company is also involved in sponsored education, health, and living expenses for 
children living in children’s homes for cancer treatment, ensuring they receive the necessary support to thrive. Additionally, the 
company provided support to create and sustain school enrichment programs for underprivileged children aiming to provide 
additional educational resources and opportunities to children who may not have access to them otherwise. Furthermore, 
the company has extended support for higher education in semi-urban and rural areas, particularly focusing on individuals 
from underprivileged and rural backgrounds. Overall, these CSR activities highlight the company’s dedication to making a 
meaningful impact on the lives of vulnerable and marginalized groups by addressing their specific needs and providing them 
with opportunities for growth and development.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
132
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format [GRI 2-24, GRI 205-2, GRI 403-5, GRI 404-1]:
Category
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No. of employees /
workers covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (A)
No. of employees /
workers covered (B)
% (B / A)
Employees
Permanent
2811
191
7%
2716
339
12%
Other than permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total
2811
191
7%
2716
339
12%
Workers
Permanent
13700
4508
33%
13803
8019
58%
Other than permanent
6000
1708
28%
5277
1753
33%
Total
19700
6216
32%
19080
9772
51%
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format [GRI 202-1, GRI 405-2]:
Category
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
Count 
in 
Current 
FY
Number of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage
% age of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage
Number of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage
% age of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage
Total 
Count in 
Previous 
FY
Number of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage
% age of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage
Number of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage
% age of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage
Employees
Permanent
Male
2,503
0
0%
2,503
100%
2425
0
0%
2425
100%
Female
308
0
0%
308
100%
291
0
0%
291
100%
Other than permanent
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Workers
Permanent
Male
5,870
68
1%
5,800
99%
6102
78
1%
6025
99%
Female
7,830
2973
38%
4,859
62%
7701
3036
39%
4664
61%
Other than permanent
Male
5232
1949
37%
3283
63%
4636
1921
41%
2715
59%
Female
768
207
27%
561
73%
624
194
31%
430
69%
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
PRINCIPLE 
5
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
133
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following [GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21]:
a.	
Median remuneration / wages [GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21]:
Male
Female
No.
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of the respective 
category
No.
Median remuneration/
salary/ wages of the 
respective category
Board of Directors$
9
10,00,000
2
4,75,000
Key Managerial Personnel*
1
1,91,87,000
1
35,07,000
Employees other than BoD and KMP
2503
8,27,000
308
8,52,000
Workers
5,870
4,51,828
7,830
2,06,744
	
*Definition of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) includes the Managing Directors (MDs), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and 
Company Secretary (CS) but as the MDs are included in Board of Directors, KMP here only includes CFO and CS.
	
$Median remuneration for Board of Directors is based on sitting fees paid during FY 2024–25 and includes executive 
compensation for Managing Directors effective from their respective appointment dates. Only directors who received 
remuneration during the year have been considered for calculating the median.
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
9.67%
9.17%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) [GRI 2-13]
	
Yes
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. [GRI 2-25]
	
Yes, Ethics committee/Internal Complaints Committee is the focal point for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused. 
Whistleblower hotline is in place for raising complaints pertaining to human rights as per the mechanism defined in Human 
Rights Policy.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers [GRI 2-25, GRI 406-1]:
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution
at the end of 
the year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution
at the end of 
the year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Wages
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other human rights-related issues
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
134
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH upheld
Nil
Nil
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. [GRI 
2-25]
	
Yes, the mechanism for prevention of adverse consequences for the complainant is covered under Whistleblower and POSH 
Policy. The weblink of the policy: https://raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
	
The identity of the complainant is kept confidential and protected and any retaliation for reporting suspected violations is 
strictly prohibited by Company policy.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) [GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24, 
GRI 414 & GRI 3-3]
	
Yes, Human rights requirements are incorporated into our business agreements and contracts. The following clause is included 
in our contractual documents:
	
“Parties are and shall continue to comply with all applicable Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) standards and 
obligations in accordance with prevailing laws, regulations, and industry practices in India and our Supplier Code of Conduct 
(SCOC). Parties shall integrate and uphold specific provisions related to labour practices, human rights, and environmental 
standards, including but not limited to good working conditions, health and safety measures, anti-discrimination and anti-
harassment policies, and efforts to reduce energy consumption, GHG emissions, and waste generation. Parties have 
implemented and continue to maintain policies that promote environmental sustainability, ensure fair labour practices, uphold 
ethical governance, and contribute positively to social development. Suppliers are encouraged to adhere to these standards in 
alignment with our SCOC, with regular assessments conducted to ensure compliance and alignment with responsible business 
practices. In the event of any breach of these ESG requirements, disciplinary actions may include contract termination or other 
remedial measures as deemed appropriate by the Parties.”
	
This clause ensures that all contractual partners are aligned with Raymond Lifestyle’s commitment to upholding human rights 
and responsible business conduct.
10.	
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or 
third parties)
Child labor
100%
Forced/involuntary labor
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above. [GRI 3-3]
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints. [GRI 2-25, GRI 3-3]
	
We are committed to upholding human rights is reinforced by our code of conduct, policies, and whistleblower channels. There 
have been no human rights grievances/complaints which resulted in introduction / modification of business process.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
135
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted. [GRI 3-1, GRI 3-3]
	
As a company deeply committed to ethical business practices, we make it a priority to conduct comprehensive human rights 
due diligence. Our approach encompasses a meticulous examination of potential human rights risks within our operations and 
across our value chain. This diligence extends to new business relationships, where we scrutinise and address potential risks, 
ensuring alignment with our ethical standards. We maintain a regular and systematic review process to keep our risk mapping 
up to date. Our focus on human rights risks includes critical issues such as forced labour, human trafficking, child labour, 
discrimination, freedom of association, collective bargaining and equal pay for equal work covering various stakeholders such 
as own employees, women, children, indigenous people, migrant workers, third-party employees and local communities with a 
commitment to protect the rights of our employees, supporting gender equality, and contributing positively to the communities 
we engage with. Our ongoing dedication to human rights due diligence underscores our unwavering commitment to upholding 
human rights at every level of our operations.
	
The company ensures compliance related to Prevention of Sexual Harassment, Maternity Benefits Act, Minimum Wages Act, 
Equal Remuneration Act at all times. We also encourage pay parity through practices like Job Evaluation, Compensation 
Benchmarking and ensure equity in remuneration across.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Visitor access at Raymond Lifestyle sites closely mirrors the measures we have in place for our colleagues with disabilities. 
At all five textile plants (Vapi, Chhindwara, Jalgaon, Amravati and Kolhapur) and Garmenting Units 1–4, main entry points and 
public areas are located on the ground floor, allowing step-free entry. Visitors may use purpose-built ramps at Chhindwara and 
Jalgaon’s admin buildings and at the production-floor entrances of Garmenting Units 1, 2 and 3. Accessible washrooms are 
available in Chhindwara’s admin block, while Kolhapur’s new facility—currently under construction—incorporates dedicated 
accessible restrooms. At our Yelahanka corporate office, specially-abled visitors are escorted to a lift lobby by trained personnel, 
and mobility aids such as wheelchairs and adjustable seating are provided on request. These site-specific arrangements 
ensure that every guest experiences a comfortable and dignified visit in alignment with the spirit of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016.
4.	
Assessments for the year: (Value Chain Partners) [GRI 414-1, GRI 414-2]
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or 
third parties)
Child labor
Nil
Forced/involuntary labor
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
	
While formal assessments were not carried out during the year, Raymond Lifestyle Limited remains committed to ethical labor 
practices and workplace standards. The company continues to monitor compliance through its supplier onboarding and 
engagement processes and will explore opportunities to enhance oversight in future reporting periods.
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above. [GRI 414-2]:
	
While formal assessments were not conducted during the reporting period, Raymond Lifestyle Limited continues to emphasize 
ethical practices and compliance within its value chain. The company remains committed to proactively strengthening its 
supplier oversight mechanisms and stands ready to implement corrective actions as needed in future reporting periods.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
136
Essential Indicators
1. 	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format [GRI 302-1]:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
From renewable sources in (GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)
1,01,399.43
1,03,649.38
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
In GJ
1,01,399.43
1,03,649.38
From non-renewable sources in (GJ)
Total electricity consumption (D)
5,67,597.25
5,71,926.36
Total fuel consumption (E)
12,22,827.69
10,14,786.16
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 
(GJ)
17,90,424.94
15,86,712.53
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
18,91,824.37
16,90,361.91
Energy intensity per lakh rupee of turnover (Total energy 
consumed / turnover) (GJ per lakh INR of revenue)
3.063
2.587
Energy intensity per lakh rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total energy consumed in GJ/ 
Revenue from operations in lakh INR adjusted for PPP)
63.32
57.95
Energy intensity per employee (Total energy consumed in GJ/ 
Total permanent employees)
322.01
291.38
	
In cases where direct metering data was not available, electricity consumption for select retail formats (only Coco format stores 
considered)—such as Park Avenue, Parx, ColorPlus, Ethnix, Made to Measure, and The Raymond Shop—was estimated using 
a spend-based approach. Electricity expenditure was divided by the average utility tariff (/kWh), and the resulting figures were 
converted into joules using standard conversion factors.
	
* For India, the PPP conversion factor is 20.66 for the year 2024-25 and 22.4 for the year 2023-24, as per the Implied PPP 
conversion rate available at IMF Datamapper.
	
Notes: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency. 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme 
have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
Yes, At Raymond Lifestyle, several of our plants registered as Designated Consumers under the Performance, Achieve, and 
Trade (PAT) scheme have delivered commendable energy efficiency improvements. For example, our Vapi plant achieved an 
11% reduction in Specific Energy Consumption (SEC) during a previous PAT cycle, exceeding its target and earning a significant 
number of Energy Saving Certificates. Similarly, our Kolhapur facility successfully completed its PAT cycles, demonstrating 
robust performance in energy efficiency, and our Chhindwara plant consistently meets its targets under the scheme. These 
positive outcomes underscore our commitment to continuously enhance energy performance and achieve further efficiency 
gains across our operations.
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE 
ENVIRONMENT
PRINCIPLE 
6
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
137
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format [GRI 303-1, GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5]:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
8,34,258
7,79,395
(ii) Groundwater
24,957
18,742
(iii) Third party water
21,26,216
21,70,080
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v) Others (Recycled Water from ETP-RO & Process)
4,29,652
4,80,227
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
34,15,083
34,48,444
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
18,67,036
18,79,861
Water intensity per lakh rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) (kl per lakh 
INR of revenue)
3.02
2.88
Water intensity per lakh rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)* (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations in lakh INR adjusted for 
PPP)
62.43
64.43
Water intensity per employee (Total water consumption / Total permanent employees)
664.23
715.91
	
* For India, the PPP conversion factor is 20.66 for the year 2024-25 and 22.4 for the year 2023-24, as per the Implied PPP 
conversion rate available at IMF Datamapper.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged [GRI 303-4]:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i) 
To Surface water
• 
No treatment
0
0
• 
With treatment – Tertiary Treatment
4,81,728
5,02,700
(ii) To Groundwater
• 
No treatment
0
0
• 
With treatment – please specify the level of treatment
0
0
(iii) To Seawater
• 
No treatment
0
0
• 
With treatment – please specify the level of treatment
0
0
(iv) Sent to third parties
• 
No treatment
0
0
• 
With treatment – Tertiary Treatment
3,93,750
3,51,225
(v) Others
• 
No treatment
0
0
• 
With treatment
6,72,569
7,14,658
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
15,48,047
15,68,583
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
138
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation. [GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2]
	
Yes, Raymond Lifestyle is committed to advancing its Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) initiatives across our operations. For 
example, at the Chhindwara plant, an advanced ZLD system incorporating Reverse Osmosis and Multiple Effect Evaporators 
has been implemented, enabling near-complete wastewater recycling and significantly reducing freshwater demand. Similarly, 
the Kolhapur plant currently recycles approximately 75% of its wastewater, with continuous efforts underway to increase this 
figure to 100%. At the Vapi facility, an efficient Effluent Treatment Plant ensures that all wastewater is treated in compliance with 
regulatory norms. In locations where direct in house systems are yet to be fully optimized, centralized treatment solutions are 
employed to maintain high standards of water management. Overall, these initiatives across our plants underscore Raymond 
Lifestyle’s proactive approach to environmental stewardship and our commitment to achieving ZLD.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format [GRI 305-7]:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
Total
NOx (MT)
38.27
50.17
Sox (MT)
43.8
42.66
Particulate matter (PM) (MT)
33.2
29.89
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) (µg/m3)
0
0
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) (µg/m3)
0
0
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) (µg/m3)
0
0
Carbon Mono oxide (CO) (µg/m3)
0
0
Total
115.27
122.72
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & their intensity, in the following format 
[GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI-305-4]:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e)
1,15,431.43
97,920.25
Total Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e)
1,14,623.11
1,13,749.80
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions (tCO2e)
2,30,054.54
211670.05
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions per lakh rupee 
of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ 
turnover)
0.3725
0.3239
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions per lakh rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue from 
operations in lakh INR adjusted for PPP)
7.694
7.257
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions intensity per 
employee (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Total 
employees)
39.15
36.49
	
*For India, the PPP conversion factor is 20.66 for the year 2024-25 and 22.4 for the year 2023-24, as per the Implied PPP 
conversion rate available at IMF Datamapper.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
139
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide detail [GRI 305-5]
	 	
Raymond Lifestyle has proactively implemented a range of projects across its facilities aimed at reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, demonstrating our commitment to sustainability and energy efficiency. At several plants, initiatives have 
focused on expanding renewable energy adoption—for example, at SSAL, solar power is being deployed across multiple units 
with established power purchase agreements, and coal has been replaced with briquettes in critical operations. The Vapi 
facility has achieved a diversified renewable energy portfolio, including the installation of a 640 kW rooftop solar plant and 
several energy conservation projects such as waste heat recovery, efficient pumps, and motor upgrades. Similarly, the Kolhapur 
plant has implemented process modifications—including the switch from LPG to PNG, upgrades to IE4 motors, and the use 
of turbo blowers—to realize a measurable reduction in GHG emissions. In addition, targeted efforts at the Chhindwara plant 
in waste heat recovery have contributed further reductions, while the Jalgaon plant has replaced older diesel generators and 
inefficient pumps with energy-saving alternatives. The Amravati facility has also made significant strides through a series of 
energy conservation projects, including waste heat recovery from bleaching and compressor operations, motor upgrades, and 
investments in IoT-based real-time monitoring. Collectively, these initiatives exemplify our multi-faceted approach to reducing 
emissions, with a robust focus on leveraging renewable energy, process efficiency, and technological innovations to drive down 
our carbon footprint.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format [GRI 306-3, GRI 306-4, GRI, GRI 306-
5, GRI 306-4-5, GRI 306-5]:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
(Current  Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
91.19
123.25
E-waste (B)
2.21
0.7
Bio-medical waste (C)
4.08
6.92
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
0
Battery waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other hazardous waste  generated (H).
3,084.69
1,477.4
 Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)
7,733.17
8,315.11
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)
10,915.33
9,923.39
Waste intensity per lakh rupee of turnover (Total waste 
generated / Revenue from operations in lakh)
0.0177
0.0152
Waste intensity per lakh rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total waste consumption / 
Revenue from operations in lakh INR adjusted for PPP)
0.3652
0.3403
Waste intensity per employee (Total waste consumption / 
Total permanent employees)
3.88
3.78
	
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 
(in metric tonnes)
Category of Waste
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(i) 
Recycled
6,082.27
6,440.74
(ii) Re-used
1,765.62
1,998.4
(iii) Other recovery operations
0
0
Total
7,847.89
8,439.14
	
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of Waste
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(i) 
Incineration
4.48
7.19
(ii) Landfilling
2,982.3
1,391.16
(iii) Other disposal operations
80.65
84.65
Total
3,067.43
1,483.01
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
140
	
*For India, the PPP conversion factor is 20.66 for the year 2024-25 and 22.4 for the year 2023-24, as per the Implied PPP 
conversion rate available at IMF Datamapper.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency. 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency.
10.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce the usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the 
practices adopted to manage such wastes. [GRI 306-2, GRI 3-3]
	
At Raymond Lifestyle, we have implemented a comprehensive waste management strategy and robust practices for reducing 
hazardous chemical usage across our operations. Our facilities segregate waste at the source into hazardous and non-
hazardous streams for targeted handling. Hazardous waste is carefully managed in compliance with regulatory norms (e.g., 
MPCB and ZDHC guidelines) through safe storage, collection, and disposal by certified vendors, while non-hazardous waste 
is directed towards reuse, recycling, or recovery operations. Additionally, by adopting low-toxicity dyes and chemicals in 
production processes and optimizing waste segregation and recycling at the plant level, we are consistently working to reduce 
our environmental footprint and enhance resource efficiency.
11.	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format [GRI 304-1]:
	
At Raymond Lifestyle, the majority of our facilities are located in industrial zones that are not proximate to ecologically 
sensitive areas. All our units are fully compliant with the relevant environmental approvals and discharge standards, and no 
noncompliance issues have been reported. We continuously monitor our operations to ensure that environmental regulations 
are strictly adhered to, safeguarding both our production processes and the surrounding environment.
12.	
Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year. [GRI 304, GRI 413-1, GRI 303-1]
	
At Raymond Lifestyle, no new environmental impact assessments have been initiated in the current financial year. Our ongoing 
operations continue under previously approved environmental permits, and existing projects are managed in full compliance 
with applicable regulatory standards. We ensure that all operational activities adhere to established environmental guidelines 
and maintain the necessary approvals, with our focus remaining on continuous monitoring and compliance.
13.	
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N)? If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format. [GRI 2-27]
	
At Raymond Lifestyle, our facilities consistently adhere to all applicable environmental regulations and standards. We have 
robust monitoring and management processes in place to ensure continuous compliance, and there have been no significant 
regulatory issues or penalties reported.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres) [GRI 303-3, GRI 303-4]:
(i) 	
Name of the area
	
A total of 6 sites, including plants and offices, are located in areas identified as having high or extremely high-water risk. The 
details of these sites are as follows:
1.	
Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh
2.	
Gowribidanur, Bangalore, Karnataka
3.	
Hosakote, Bangalore, Karnataka
4.	
Doddaballapura, Bangalore, Karnataka
5.	
Hindupuram, Andhra Pradesh
6.	
Yelahanka, Bangalore, Karnataka
(ii) 	
Nature of operations
1.	
Chhindwara Plant, Madhya Pradesh – Manufacturing of worsted suiting fabric
2.	
Gowribidanur Plant, Bangalore, Karnataka – Garment manufacturing (suits, shirts, trousers)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
141
3.	
Hosakote Plant, Bangalore, Karnataka – Garment manufacturing (suits, shirts, trousers)
4.	
Doddaballapura Plant, Bangalore, Karnataka – Garment manufacturing (suits, shirts, trousers)
5.	
Hindupuram Plant, Andhra Pradesh – Garment manufacturing (suits, shirts, trousers)
6.	
Yelahanka Office, Bangalore, Karnataka – Regional office operations
Parameter
Calendar Year (2024-25)
Calendar Year (2023-24)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
8,34,258
7,79,395
(ii) Groundwater
24,957
18,742
(iii) Third party water
44,738
39,470
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v) Others
3,61,808
4,04,403
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
12,65,761
12,42,010
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
8,87,445
8,78,503
Waste intensity per lakh rupee of turnover (Total waste 
generated / Revenue from operations in lakh)
1.44
1.34
Waste intensity per lakh rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total waste consumption / 
Revenue from operations in lakh INR adjusted for PPP)
29.70
30.13
Waste intensity per employee (Total waste consumption / Total 
permanent employees)
315.78
334.74
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in 
kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water
No treatment
0
0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii) To Groundwater
No treatment
0
0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii) To Seawater
No treatment
0
0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv) Sent to Third parties
No treatment
0
0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(v) Others
No treatment
0
0
With treatment – Tertiary treatment
3,78,316
3,63,507
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
3,78,316
3,63,507
	
*For India, the PPP conversion factor is 20.66 for the year 2024-25 and 22.4 for the year 2023-24, as per the Implied PPP 
conversion rate available at IMF Datamapper.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency. 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
142
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity. [GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4]: 
Parameter
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (tCO2e)
3,53,289.67
3,59,792.79
Total Scope 3 Emissions per lakh rupee of turnover (Total 
Scope 3 GHG emissions/ turnover)
0.57
0.55
Total Scope 3 Emissions per lakh rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total Scope 3 
GHG emissions/ Revenue from operations in lakh INR adjusted 
for PPP)
11.82
12.34
Total Scope 3 Emissions intensity per employee (Total 
Scope 3 GHG emissions/ Total employees)
125.73
137.04
	
*For India, the PPP conversion factor is 20.66 for the year 2024-25 and 22.4 for the year 2023-24, as per the Implied PPP 
conversion rate available at IMF Datamapper.
	
The reported Scope 3 emissions for FY 2024-25 and FY 2023-24 cover the following categories, as per the GHG Protocol:
•	
Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services
•	
Category 2: Capital Goods
•	
Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations
•	
Category 6: Business Travel
	
Emission factors used for calculations have been sourced from internationally recognized databases, including DEFRA (UK 
Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs), US EPA (United States Environmental Protection Agency), and CSEP (Centre 
for Science and Environment Platform), ensuring consistency and comparability with global best practices.
	
The Scope 3 emissions figures are based on available data for the reporting year and may be updated in future disclosures as 
data quality and availability improve.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities. [GRI 304-2, GRI 304-3]:
	
Not applicable, as the company does not operate in ecologically sensitive areas.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the 
same as well as the outcome of such initatives as per the following format [GRI 3-3]:
Sr. 
No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative
Outcome of the initiative
1
Equipment Upgradation
Replacement of old AWT fans and 
motors with energy-efficient alternatives.
Significantly 
reduced 
energy 
consumption 
in 
manufacturing 
operations.
2
Renewable Energy Adoption
Installation of a 640 kW rooftop solar 
plant and execution of power purchase 
agreements.
Reduced 
reliance 
on 
conventional 
grid power and lowered overall CO₂ 
emissions.
3
Coal Consumption Reduction
Implementation of projects aimed at 
reducing coal consumption by 6% 
through process improvements.
Lowered carbon footprint and achieved 
operational cost savings.
4
Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) 
Implementation
Adoption of ZLD systems to optimize 
water usage and alleviate pressure on 
wastewater treatment facilities.
Enhanced water recycling and reduced 
freshwater consumption.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
143
Sr. 
No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative
Outcome of the initiative
5
Waste Heat Recovery in the 
Bleaching Process
Installation of a waste heat recovery 
system to capture energy from hot 
effluent and reuse it to preheat feed 
water in the bleaching process.
Achieved a 20% reduction in steam 
consumption, contributing to energy 
conservation.
6
Additional Energy Efficiency 
Projects
Implementation 
of 
energy-efficient 
compressors, smart lighting, and BLDC 
fans across various facilities.
Delivered substantial annual energy 
savings and improved overall efficiency.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Raymond Lifestyle has established robust protocols to ensure business continuity and effective disaster management across 
its operations. Our key facilities have implemented comprehensive disaster management plans that include clearly defined 
standard operating procedures, emergency response and evacuation protocols, and post-incident review processes. These 
plans are supported by regular training and continuous system enhancements, ensuring all team members understand their 
roles during emergencies. In addition, localized emergency measures are in place at selected plants to promptly address 
operational disruptions. While some sites currently maintain only onsite emergency plans, efforts are ongoing to develop and 
standardize a full-scale business continuity framework across the organization.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation 
or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard. [GRI 308-2]:
	
There were no formal assessments conducted during the reporting period to identify significant adverse environmental 
impacts arising from the value chain. However, Raymond Lifestyle Limited remains committed to responsible sourcing and 
environmental stewardship and continues to monitor supplier practices through its onboarding process. The company will 
consider strengthening its assessment and mitigation mechanisms in future reporting periods.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts. [GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2]:
	
No value chain partners were assessed for environmental impacts. However, RLL procures its major proportion of raw material 
which comprises of wool fibre, flax fibre, viscose staple fibre, polyster tow, polyester staple fibre, cotton yarn, polyester-viscose 
blended yarn and fabric made of natural fibre and its blends, from reputed organization that are compliant with environmental 
standards
8.        a.	
Green credits generated or procured by the entity: Raymond Lifestyle did not generate or procure any green credits 
during the reporting period.
b.	
Green credits generated or procured by top ten value chain partners (in terms of value of purchases and sales 
respectively): None of the top ten value-chain partners generated or procured green credits during the reporting period.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
144
BUSINESSES WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, 
SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
PRINCIPLE 
7
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.        a)	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
15
b) 	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to. [GRI 2-28]
S.
no
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Bureau of Energy Efficiency
National
2
Textile Sector Skill Council
National
3
National Safety Council
National
4
Confederation of Indian Industry
National
5
The Indian Society of Advertisers
National
6
Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry
State
7
Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture 
Aurangabad (CMIA)
State
8
Manufacturing Association of Kagal and Hatkanangle
State
9
M.P. Textile Association
State
10
Vidarbha Industries Association
State
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities [GRI 206-1, GRI 3-3]
	
Not Applicable. No such corrective action was taken as we received no such adverse orders from regulatory authorities on any 
issue related to anti-competitive conduct.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity [GRI 2-28, GRI 415]
	
The Company is not currently engaged in public policy advocacy.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
145
BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
PRINCIPLE 
8
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year. [GRI 413-1, GRI 203-1]
	
Not applicable on the entity based on applicable laws.
2.	
Provide information on the project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity [GRI 413-1, GRI 413-2]:
	
There were no projects which needed Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R).
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community [GRI 3-3, GRI 2-25, GRI 413-1]
	
Raymond Lifestyle is committed to maintaining strong and respectful relationships with the communities surrounding its 
manufacturing locations. Each facility has put in place structured mechanisms to receive, document, and address grievances, 
feedback, and suggestions raised by local stakeholders. Across our plants located in designated industrial areas—including 
Jalgaon, Vapi, Kolhapur, Amravati, and the SSAL plants—Raymond Lifestyle actively participates in local industrial associations. 
These forums, such as the Boregaon Industrial Association (Chhindwara), Amravati Textile Manufacturers Association, MAKH 
(Kolhapur), and relevant regional industrial bodies, serve as collaborative platforms to address community concerns and 
industrial issues. Engagements are held periodically—ranging from quarterly to bi-annual meetings—where feedback is formally 
collected, recorded, and resolved through coordination with internal or external committees. In locations like Gauribidanur, 
where the plant is situated outside industrial zones, the local panchayat plays a key role in addressing community-related 
matters. Issues are jointly reviewed and resolved in partnership with local governance bodies. In addition to grievance 
redressal, Raymond Lifestyle also contributes to community well-being through employment generation, skill development, 
and participation in local cultural and religious events. These multi-stakeholder engagements reflect our commitment to 
responsible operations and sustained community relationships across all geographies where we operate.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from local or small-scale suppliers [GRI 204-1]:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ Small producers
33.38%
32.14%
Sourced directly from within India
71.65%
71.60%
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed 
on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
 Location
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
%
%
Rural
 0.12
 0.14
Semi-urban
 0.27
 0.27
Urban
 14.40
 15.39
Metropolitan
 85.20
 84.21
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
146
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above) [GRI 3-3, GRI 413-1, GRI 203-1]:
	
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies [GRI 413-1, GRI 203-1]:
	
Not Applicable
3.        (a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) [GRI 3-3, GRI 203-1, GRI 204-1] –
	
No
	
While there is no preferential procurement policy, Raymond follows business practices that enable the stakeholders to be 
part of our sustainability journey.
(b) 	
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? [GRI 3-3, GRI 203-1, GRI 204-1] Not Applicable
(c) 	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? Not Applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge [GRI 201-1]
	
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property-related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved. [GRI 3-3]
	
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects. [GRI 413-1, GRI 203-1]
S. 
no
CSR Project
No of persons 
benefited from 
CSR Projects
% Of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized group
1`
Provides safe, secure, and hygienic accommodation along with holistic 
support to families with children undergoing cancer treatment.
304
100
2
Rehabilitation of Cancer Patients & Survivors
654
100
3
Vocational Training to Cancer Patients and survivors
29
100
4
Pediatric Heart Surgeries
78
100
5
For Citizenship and Life Skills education for children
4140
100
6
Educational support by renovating Government Schools
63
100
7
HPV (Human Papillomavirus) Vaccines to pre marriage girls for 
preventing Cancer
150
100
8
Holistic development of children with disabilities
22
100
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
147
BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN 
RESPONSIBLE MANNER
PRINCIPLE 
9
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. [GRI 2-25, GRI 
2-29]
	
For B2C Customers:
	
Raymond Lifestyle maintains a robust, omnichannel system for capturing and addressing customer feedback and grievances. 
Multiple touchpoints are available to ensure that customers can easily reach out for support or to share their experiences 
regarding our products and services. Key mechanisms include:
•	
Toll-Free Number: A dedicated call centre operates seven days a week to assist with consumer queries.
•	
Dedicated Email: Customers can write to us at consumercarecell@raymond.in, with this contact shared across all 
brand and service communications.
•	
In-Store Support: Feedback can be provided at any of our 1,000+ stores, where trained personnel are available to assist, 
or forward concerns to our central team.
•	
Online Channels: Customers may submit feedback via our official website (https://myraymond.com/pages/contact) or 
corporate social media handles, which are monitored by our support team.
•	
On-Site Digital Feedback: Display cards with barcodes and relevant information are placed in stores to facilitate real-
time feedback at the point of sale.
•	
Social Media: Feedback is also captured and addressed through our official LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, 
YouTube and Pinterest channels.
	
All feedback and complaints are tracked using unique ticket IDs on a central portal, ensuring that every query is addressed 
within the specified turnaround time. Oversight is provided by the Head of Retail CRM, supported by a dedicated Consumer 
Care Cell team committed to a Customer First approach and adherence to established SOPs.
	
Contact Details:
•	
Toll Free Number: 1800 222 001
•	
Email: consumercarecell@raymond.in
•	
Address: Plot No. 156 / H. No. 2, Village Zadgaon, Ratnagiri – 415 612, Maharashtra
•	
Website: https://myraymond.com/pages/contact
•	
Official social media handles (LinkedIn, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Pinterest)
	
For B2B Partners:
	
For trade and business-to-business customers, complaints are routed through the Sales Area Manager and Product Department, 
with notification in the SAP system and supporting documentation. Each complaint is sent to the relevant manufacturing plant 
for investigation and comments. After thorough review, the Head of Quality Excellence provides a final response, recorded in 
SAP and through a signed hard copy. If a complaint is found to be justified, a credit note is issued to the buyer.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information. [GRI 
417-1]
Services
As a percentage to total turnover
Environment and Social parameters relevant to product
0%
Safe and responsible usage
0%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
0%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
148
	
At Raymond Lifestyle, we continue to embed sustainability into our product offerings, with a noticeable uptake in the inclusion 
of environmental and social information. For example, approximately 10% of our total fabric production incorporates recycled 
polyester fiber, and our premium fabric lines have shown marked improvements—with one facility increasing the percentage 
of sustainably labeled products from 35% to 40% and another from 5% to 8% over the past year. In addition, feedback 
from customer surveys indicates that around 50% of our clients now prefer products featuring clear recycled content or 
sustainability-related tags. These developments underscore our commitment to responsible manufacturing and the growing 
market preference for sustainable products
3.	
Number of consumer complaints [GRI 418-1]:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Advertising
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Cyber-security
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Delivery of essential services
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
-
Others
6250
123
-
Nil
-
-
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues [GRI 416-2]
Number
Reason for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
-
Forced recalls
0
-
	
No products were recalled on account of safety
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web link to the policy. [GRI 2-23, GRI 3-3, GRI 418]
	
Raymond Lifestyle maintains a comprehensive internal Information Security Policy applicable to all employees, contractors, 
and outsourced partners, covering both company-owned and leased equipment. The policy outlines acceptable and prohibited 
practices, including guidelines on password management, software and internet usage, and email protocols. Additionally, a 
dedicated help desk is available to provide timely support on a first-come, first-served basis, ensuring effective resolution of 
information security concerns.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / 
action taken by regulatory authorities on the safety of products / services. [GRI 3-3]
	
No issues arose during the reporting period requiring corrective actions. Consequently, no such actions were necessary or 
undertaken.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches [GRI 418-1]:
a. 	
Number of instances of data breaches along with impact - 1
b. 	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – 0%
c. 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches– Upon identifying the breach, the system was isolated and data restoration was 
initiated. Data from 25-01-2025 to 18-03-2025 was manually reconstructed.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
149
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide a web link, 
if available). [GRI 2-6]
1) 	
https://myraymond.com/
2) 	
https://www.myntra.com/
3) 	
https://www.amazon.in/
4) 	
https://www.flipkart.com/
5) 	
https://www.ajio.com/
6) 	
https://www.tatacliq.com/
7) 	
https://www.nykaafashion.com/
8) 	
https://raymondlifestyle.com/bussiness/raymond_made_to_measure_business
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. [GRI 
417, GRI 3-3]
 
Our product tags provide information on the safe and responsible use of our products, including washing, drying, and 
ironing instructions. These guidelines appear on all our apparel items. Instructions for product use are also available on the 
MyRaymond website.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services:
 
The company’s operations and product / services do not comes under essential services – hence this is not applicable. 
However, Company proactively provides information through mails about any disruption/discontinution in its products and/
or services
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable)? If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or 
the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) [GRI 417-1]
	
Raymond Lifestyle displays comprehensive product information on its products, often exceeding statutory requirements. The 
following information is provided on product labels:
•	
Product name
•	
Size
•	
Net quantity
•	
Manufacturer name and address
•	
Customer care contact details
•	
Month and year of manufacturing
•	
Purchase order number
•	
International article number
•	
Maximum Retail Price (MRP)
	
Consumer Satisfaction Surveys:
	
To monitor and enhance customer satisfaction, Raymond Lifestyle has established several feedback mechanisms:
•	
For every bill generated at the retail point of sale, a Customer Satisfaction (CSAT) feedback request is sent via WhatsApp 
to the customer’s registered mobile number. Customers rate their experience on a scale of 1 to 5, covering both product 
and service aspects as well as their likelihood to recommend Raymond Lifestyle to others. The resulting data is used to 
generate a Net Promoter Score (NPS), offering insights into overall customer satisfaction.
•	
Each store is listed on Google My Business, where in-store communication encourages customers to provide live reviews 
and ratings, visible on the Google network. These ratings also contribute to the overall Net Promoter Score, helping to 
track and improve customer experience.
•	
Bi-annual Franchisee Feedback Surveys are conducted to understand the sentiment of trade partners across areas such 
as customer service, retail support, tailoring, supply chain, and project support.
•	
Additionally, Raymond Lifestyle personnel regularly visit store locations nationwide to gather in-person feedback about 
products and services.
	
These practices demonstrate Raymond Lifestyle’s ongoing commitment to transparency, consumer engagement, and 
the continuous improvement of the customer experience.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
150
Annexure D
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The information under section 134 (3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 8 (3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, for 
the year ended March 31, 2025, is given below and forms part of the Board’s Report.
A.	
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
I.	
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
	 	
The Company is making continuous efforts on an 
ongoing basis for energy conservation by adopting 
innovative measures to reduce wastage and optimise 
consumption. Some of the specific measures undertaken 
by the Company in this direction at its Rubber Products 
- Male Contraceptives (Condoms) plant in Chhatrapati 
Sambhajinagar and Textile units located at Chhindwara, 
Vapi, and Jalgaon are as under:
	
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar Plant
i.	
The steps taken or impact on the conservation of 
energy.
a)	
Set switching on sequence for the Vulcanizing 
Tumblers to balance out the Power demand, 
thereby maintaining the maximum Billed 
demand well below the Sanctioned demand 
(MD reduction by 10% of Sanctioned demand), 
savings of ₹ 3.30 Lakh per year.
b)	
Installation of 910kVA DG set, which is taking 
100% plant electrical load and has impacted 
on energy conservation, units saved 8700 Units, 
which were getting consumed during Dipline 
start after every Power outage and resulted 
in savings of ₹ 0.87 Lakh per year and also 
increased production capacity.
ii.	
The Company is assessing the feasibility of installing a 
solar power plant for manufacturing.
iii	
The capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment: Nil
Chhindwara plant
1.	
RO water utilization as a process water
2.	
Upgradation of Capacitor Banks to reduce Losses & 
Harmonics
3.	
Replacement of Standard Motor with IE4 Motor at 
Boiler, PV Spg, Worsted & Recombing AWT
4.	
Installation of VFD on KTTM Ring Frame m/c in PV Spg.
Vapi Plant
1.	
Installation of energy-efficient thermic fluid booster 
pumps
2.	
Installation of new Air Pre Heater in boiler-2
3.	
Installation of energy-efficient Fiber Reinforced Plastic 
(FRP) Fans in TFO Tower.
4.	
Energy-efficient motors in multiple utility locations 
(Thermopac, Air Washer Tower)
Jalgaon plant
1. 	
Replacement of 4 old DG sets with 2 No. of new DG 
sets.
2.	
Installation of APFC panel at PDB level to reduce line 
loss.
3.	
Refrigerators, Water Coolers & Split ACs, using R22 
refrigerant, have been successfully replaced with eco-
friendly alternatives.
4.	 	
Replacement of the Old inefficient 1 MVA transformer 
with an efficient one.
II.	
The steps taken by the company for utilising alternate 
sources of energy:
1.	
Optimization of hot water in various locations 
through waste heat recovery units to save thermal 
energy.
III.	
The Capital investment in energy conservation 
equipment:
1.	
Capital 
investment 
on 
energy 
conservation 
equipment in the Chhindwara plant is Rs 20 Lakh 
during the FY 2024-2025.
2.	
Capital 
investment 
on 
energy 
conservation 
equipment in the Vapi plant is Rs 4.24 Crore during 
the FY 2024-2025.
B.	
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
IV.	
 The efforts made towards technology absorption:
	
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar Plant
i.	
The efforts made towards technology absorption.
	
Two Thermal Transfer Over printers installed for online 
foil printing on the Foiling machine.
ii.	
The benefits derived, like product improvement, 
cost reduction, product development, or import 
substitution.
-	
100% Online Visual inspection of Sealed products 
started, which helped to reduce Visual defects during 
the sealing stage and improve final outgoing quality.
iii.	
In case of imported technology (imported during the 
last three years reckoned from the beginning of the 
financial year) - N.A.
iv.	
The 
expenditure 
incurred 
on 
Research 
and 
Development:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
151
	
Expenses are included in product and process 
development. The Expenditure is not separately 
ascertained.
Chhindwara, Vapi, and Jalgaon Plant
1.	
Replacement of old Carding machines with new 
upgraded Carding machines LMW (04 Nos) at PV 
Spinning department of Chhindwara Plant.
2.	
Upgradation of the Blow room at the PV Spinning 
department of the Chhindwara Plant.
3.	
Upgradation & replacement of old Draw Frame 
machine by new Draw Frame machine (02 Nos.) at PV 
Spinning department of Chhindwara Plant.
4.	
Conversion of normal drive into servo drive in Jaquard 
of Looms for selvedge name at Chhindwara Plant.
5.	
Conversion of old Breakers in HT and LT with upgraded 
Breakers
6.	
Installation of Flowmeters in ETP effluent for 
measurement and monitoring.
7.	
In-house development of 1900 mm length LED Light 
and Installation at Weaving Loom Machine.
8.	
Todo trolley power and control wiring modification and 
upgradation.
9.	
Installation of APFC relay at Plant PDB
10.	 Upgradation of Weaving Perching Barco System
11.	 Upgradation of the TLC Drive in the Warping Machine
V.	
The benefits derived, like product improvement, 
cost reduction, product development, or import 
substitution:
1.	
	 In-House 
Repairing 
of 
Mechanical, 
Electrical, 
Electronic, card & Instrumentation parts - Cost Saving 
₹ 100.49 Lakh in Chhindwara plant.
2.	
	 Import substitution through Mechanical, Electrical, 
and Electronic repairing - Cost Saving ₹ 64 Lakh in 
Chhindwara plant.
3.	
	 Cost reduction by Energy & Water Saving projects of ₹ 
35 Lakh.
4.	
In-house 
Repairing 
of 
Electronic 
card 
& 
Instrumentation parts - Cost Saving ₹ 174 Lakh in Vapi 
plant.
VI.	 In case of imported technology (imported during the 
last three years, reckoned from the beginning of the 
financial year):
1.	
Replacement of old Text tool machine with Zinser Ring 
frame machine (16 Nos) at the worsted department of 
Chhindwara Plant.
2.	
Replacement of the old Murta Autoconer machine 
with a New Autoconer machine at the worsted 
department of Chhindwara Plant.
VII.	 Expenditure incurred on research and development
	
₹ 24.80 Lakh
C.	
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
(₹ in lakh)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Foreign Exchange Earned
5,071.51
42,409.47
Foreign Exchange Used
39.31
17,807.77
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
152
Annexure E
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION
(Pursuant to Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014)
Sr. No.
Requirements
Disclosure
1
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median 
remuneration of all the employees of the Company for the 
financial year1.
Name of the Director
Ratio
(in x times)
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
118
Mr. Sunil Kataria (upto 31.03.2025)
135
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
NA
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
NA
Mr. Dinesh Lal
NA
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
NA
Mr. Veneet Nayar
NA
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
NA
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
NA
a.	 The median remuneration of all the employees of 
the Company was Rs.4.24 Lakh;
b.	 Figures have been rounded off wherever necessary.
2
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief 
Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the financial year1.
Since the entire Board of Directors and CFO were 
appointed during the current Financial Year the 
information on percentage increase in remuneration 
is not applicable for them. The Annual Increment of 
Company Secretary was 8%.
3
The percentage increase/decrease in the median remuneration 
of employees in the financial year.
During FY2025, the percentage increase in the median 
remuneration of employees as compared to previous 
year was approximately 1.88%. 
4
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company.
There were 6,435 employees as on March 31, 2025
5
The Average percentage increase already made in the salaries 
of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last 
financial year and its comparison with the percentage increase 
in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and 
point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase 
in the managerial remuneration.
Average increase in remuneration:
a.  Employees other than Managerial Personnel : 7.09%
b. Managerial Personnel: NA3
5
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration 
policy of the Company
It is affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the 
Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy 
of the Company.
Notes:
1.	
For this purpose, sitting fees paid to the Directors has not been considered as remuneration. 
2.	
Managerial Personnel includes Executive Chairman and Managing Director.
3.	
Not applicable as Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania and Mr. Sunil Kataria, Managing Directors were appointed during the year.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
153
Corporate Governance Report
This report is prepared in accordance with the provisions  of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the SEBI “Listing 
Regulations”) and the report contains the details of Corporate 
Governance Systems and processes at Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited (RLL/ Raymond Lifestyle Limited/ the Company).
I.	
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
Governance reflects the culture and values of the 
Company’s Board and Management. For years, Raymond 
Group as a whole has promoted practices, standards 
and resources to maximize the shareholder value legally, 
ethically and on a sustainable basis while ensuring 
fairness, transparency and accountability to benefit all 
stakeholders comprising customers, vendors, investors, 
regulators, employees and the society at large.
	
Raymond Lifestyle believes that good governance in a 
Company enhances the confidence, trust and enthusiasm 
of its stakeholders. In dealing with external stakeholders, the 
Company believes in maintaining complete transparency 
with timely exchange of information. The leadership in 
the Company sets the tone through their actions and this 
ensures that the organisation remains true to its culture 
and values in letter and spirit. The Company has a strong 
legacy of fair, transparent and ethical governance practices 
and continues to make progressive actions that promote 
excellence within our business and the marketplace.
	
Our Board recognizes the importance of maintaining high 
standards of corporate governance, which underpins our 
ability to deliver consistent financial performance and value 
to our stakeholders. In line with the above philosophy, the 
Company continuously strives for excellence and focuses 
on enhancement of long-term stakeholder value through 
adoption of best governance and disclosure practices.
	
The Company not only adheres to the Corporate 
Governance practices as prescribed under the SEBI Listing 
Regulations but is also committed to sound Corporate 
Governance principles and practices. The Company’s 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Internal Code 
of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting 
of Trades by Designated Persons as framed under the 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
demonstrates our values and commitment to ethical 
business practices, integrity and regulatory compliances.
	
The Company maintains a comprehensive set of 
compliance policies and procedures which assist us in 
complying with the law and conducting our business in an 
honest, ethical and righteous way.
	
At Raymond Lifestyle, we believe that good corporate 
governance is an essential part of well-managed and 
successful business enterprise that delivers value to the 
shareholders. Our robust governance framework is based 
on the following principles:
•	
Fairness 
and 
equitable 
treatment 
towards 
stakeholders to encourage active co-operation 
between the company and its stakeholders.
•	
Timely and accurate disclosure of all material matters 
relating to the Company, including the financial 
situation, performance and ownership so that proper 
governance of the Company is ensured.
•	
Board members act on a fully informed basis, in 
good faith, with due diligence and care and in the 
best interest of the Company in addition to the 
shareholders coupled with the intention of ensuring 
appropriate composition and size of the Board.
•	
Channels for disseminating information provide for 
equal, timely and cost-efficient access to relevant 
information by users.
•	
Continually 
reinforcing 
a 
culture 
across 
the 
organisation for acting lawfully, ethically and 
responsibly.
•	
Establishing a sound risk management framework 
and periodically reviewing the effectiveness of that 
framework.
•	
As part of Corporate Social Responsibility, the 
Company believes in working and supporting 
sustainable projects both for people & planet 
and providing valuable contribution to social and 
economic development; and
•	
Continuous 
and 
on-going 
focus 
on 
training, 
development and integration of employees across all 
levels to achieve the Company’s objectives.
Raymond Lifestyle continues to focus on its resources, 
strengths and strategies to achieve the vision of becoming a 
leader in Textiles, Apparel, Garmenting and Lifestyle brands 
while upholding the core values of Quality, Trust, Leadership 
and Excellence. The Company continues to herald pioneering 
innovations to consolidate its strong leadership position and 
constantly strives to adopt the best emerging practices being 
followed worldwide.
The Company’s vision embraces challenges and provides the 
impetus in setting highest corporate governance standards.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
154
II.	 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES OF THE 
BOARD
	
Board of Directors
	
The Board of the Company is diverse, comprising of 
highly experienced individuals and persons with eminent 
expertise who are entrusted with the responsibility of the 
Management, directions and performance of the Company. 
The Company recognizes that an independent, dynamic 
and well-informed Board is essential to ensure the highest 
standards of Corporate Governance. The primary role of 
the Board is fiduciary. The Board also requests special 
invitees to attend the meetings, as they feel appropriate.
	
The Board provides leadership, strategic guidance, 
objective and an independent view to the Company’s 
management 
while 
discharging 
its 
responsibilities 
and ensures that the management adheres to ethics, 
transparency and disclosures which ultimately serves 
the long-term goals of all its stakeholders along with 
achieving the Company’s objectives and sustainable 
profitable growth. The Board Members strive to meet the 
expectations of operational transparency to stakeholders, 
whilst simultaneously maintaining confidentiality of 
information to the extent required. The Board ensures that 
the management is accountable for attaining the long-
term goals of the Company and also ensures compliance 
with the applicable Acts/ Laws / Regulations.
	
Committees of the Board
	
The Board has constituted the following Committees viz., 
Audit Committee (“AC”), Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”), Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee 
(“CSRC”), 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee (“SRC”), Risk Management Committee 
(“RMC”), 
Environmental, 
Social 
and 
Governance 
Committee (“ESGC”), Investment and Finance Committee 
(“IFC”), Committee (Allotment & Listing of Shares) and 
Information and Technology Committee (“ITC”). Each 
Committee is mandated to operate within a well-defined 
Charter and Terms of Reference which is re-visited by 
the Board periodically. Each Committee contributes and 
assists the Board, resulting in an effective discharge of it’s 
roles and responsibilities by the Directors of the Company.
	
Composition and category of Directors
	
The Board of Raymond Lifestyle comprises of optimum 
combination of Independent and Non-Independent 
Directors, including Woman Director in line with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and 
the Listing Regulations. The Board of the Company has 
a good and diverse mix of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors with majority of the Board members comprising 
of Independent Directors. The composition of the Board 
represents an optimal combination of professionalism, 
knowledge and experience which enables the Board 
to discharge its responsibilities and provide effective 
leadership to the business.
	
The Board of the Company is broad-based and consists of 
eminent individuals from Industrial, Managerial, Technical, 
Financial, Costing, Marketing, Portfolio Management 
and Merchant Banking backgrounds. The composition 
and strength of the Board is reviewed from time to time 
to ensure that it remains aligned with statutory as well as 
business requirements.
	
Composition of the Board and category of the Directors 
as on March 31, 2025
	
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Company 
is in conformity with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Board comprised of 10 
Directors, 7 of whom are Non–Executive Independent 
Directors (including One Independent Woman Director), 1 
is Non-Executive Director, 1 is Executive Promoter Director 
and 1 is Executive Director.
	
Directors’ Directorships/Committee Memberships
	
In accordance with Regulation 26 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, none of the Directors are members in 
more than 10 committees excluding membership in 
private limited companies, foreign companies and 
companies registered under Section 8 of the Act or acts 
as Chairperson of more than 5 committees across all 
public entities, whether listed or not, in which he/she 
is a Director. The membership in Audit Committee and 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee are only considered 
for the computation of limits. Further, all the Directors 
have informed about their directorships and committee 
memberships/chairmanships including any change in 
their positions. The number of directorships, committee 
membership(s)/chairmanship(s) of all directors is within 
respective limits as prescribed under the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
155
The details of the Board of Directors as on March 31, 2025 and memberships/chairmanships including any changes in their positions 
are given below:
Name of Director
Executive/ 
Non-
Executive/ 
Independent
Date of 
Appointment
No. of positions held in other 
Public Companies
Directorship in Listed Company(ies)
Board
Committee
Name of the Company
Position Held
Chairperson
Member
Mr. Gautam Hari 
Singhania
(DIN: 00020088)
Executive 
Chairman
September 07, 
2020
5
NIL
1
Raymond Limited
Chairman and 
Managing Director
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
(DIN: 06943493)
Independent 
Director
July 09, 2024
7
2
6
Nuvama Wealth Man­
agement Limited
Star Health and Allied 
Insurance Company 
Limited
Abbott India Limited
Motherson Sumi Wiring 
India Limited
Ceigall India Limited
Godrej Finance Limited
(Debt Listed)
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Mr. Dinesh Lal
(DIN: 00037142)
Independent 
Director
July 09, 2024
3
2
4
Raymond Limited
Allcargo Gati Limited
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
(DIN: 00110996)
Independent 
Director
July 09, 2024
0
-
-
-
-
Mr. K. Narasimha. 
Murthy (DIN: 
00023046)
Independent 
Director
March 27, 2024
6
2
5
Raymond Limited
Max Financial Services 
Limited
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Directors
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
(DIN: 00123243)
Independent 
Director
September 07, 
2020
2
-
-
LKP Securities Limited
Non-Executive - 
Non Independent 
Director
Mr. Ravindra 
Dhariwal	  (DIN: 
00003922)
Non-executive 
Non-
Independent 
Director
January 30, 
2023
6
2
4
Bata India Limited
Sheela Foam Limited
IRB Infrastructure 
Developers Ltd
TBO Tek Limited
Non-Executive – 
Non Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Non-Executive – 
Non Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Mr. Rajiv Sharma 
(DIN: 10748015)
Independent 
Director
August 24, 2024
0
-
-
-
-
Mr. Sunil Kataria 
(DIN: 06863609)
Managing 
Director
March 28, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Veneet Nayar 
(DIN: 02007846)
Independent 
Director
July 09, 2024
1
-
-
-
-
Notes:
1.	
Chairmanship and Membership of Committee only includes Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee in Indian Public Limited 
Companies other than Raymond Lifestyle Limited.
2.	
None of the Directors are related inter-se.
3.	
Details of Director(s) retiring or being re-appointed are given in Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
4.	
The Board of Directors have noted the declaration received from the Independent Directors pursuant to the Act and Listing Regulations with 
regard to their Independence and are of the opinion that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions of independence and are independent of 
the management of the Company.
5.	
The table contains details of directorship held during FY 2024 – 25.
6.	
Brief profiles of each of the above Directors are available on the Company’s website: www.raymondlifestyle.com.
7.	
Maximum tenure of Independent Directors is in accordance with the Act and Rules made thereunder.
8.	
The Company has no convertible instruments. None of the Directors hold any convertible instruments of the Company.
9.	
Mrs Nawaz Gautam Singhania (DIN: 00863174) ceased to be Director w.e.f April 25, 2024.
10.	 Mr. Dinesh Lal (DIN: 00037142), Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi (DIN: 00110996), Mr. Veneet Nayar (DIN:02007846) and Mrs. Anisha Motwani 
(DIN: 0694349) were appointed as Independent Directors w.e.f July 9, 2024.
11.	 Mr. Debjit Rudra (DIN: 01393433) ceased to be Executive Director & CEO w.e.f July 9, 2024
12.	 Mrs. Rashmi Mundada (DIN: 08086902) ceased to be Director w.e.f July 16, 2024.
13.	 Mr. Rajiv Sharma (DIN: 10748015) was appointed as Non-executive Non-Independent Director w.e.f August 24, 2024. He was redesignated as 
Non-executive Independent Director w.e.f November 1, 2024.
14.	 Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal (DIN:00003922) was redesignated as Non-executive Director w.e.f November 1, 2024 and ceased to be director w.e.f April 
11, 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
156
*Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal ceased to be Director of the Company 
w.e.f. April 11, 2025
**Mr. Sunil Kataria ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. 
March 31, 2025.
***Mr. Debjit Rudra and Mrs. Rashmi Mundada ceased to be 
Director w.e.f. July 9, 2024 and July 16, 2024 respectively.
The 6th (Sixth) AGM of the Company was held on May 27, 2024 
at the registered office of the Company.
Familiarisation Programme for Directors
The Company provides every opportunity to all the Directors 
to familiarize themselves with the Company, its management, 
its operations and above all, the industry perspective and 
issues. Directors regularly interact with the senior management 
personnel to acquaint themselves with all important matters 
and proactively provide them with relevant suggestion, 
information, news, views and updates on the Company and 
sector. A formal appointment letter issued to Independent 
Director(s) (IDs), inter-alia explains the role, function, duties 
and responsibilities as expected from a Director of the 
Company. The Directors are also explained in detail, the 
Compliance required from him under the Act, the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and various statutes applicable to the Company. 
The Managing Director also have a one-to-one discussion with 
the newly appointed Director to familiarize him / her with the 
Company’s operations. The induction process for IDs includes 
interaction with the business CEOs and functional heads and 
plant visit for detailed understanding of manufacturing process 
/ activities of the Company. A shared folder on Directors’ 
Orientation Program has been created on e-meeting portal of 
the Company containing comprehensive information about all 
the group structure, organization structure, business segments, 
subsidiary 
companies, 
financial 
information, 
statutory 
information, disclosures and historical information about the 
Company for the benefit of Independent Directors.
Further, on an ongoing basis, presentations are regularly made 
to the Independent Directors, as a part of Agenda of Board / 
Committee Meetings, on various matters inter-alia covering the 
Company’s and its subsidiaries/associate’s businesses and 
operations, industry and regulatory updates, strategies, finance, 
risk management framework, role, rights, responsibilities 
of the Independent Directors under various statutes and 
other relevant matters. The details of the programme for 
familiarisation of Independent Directors with the working of 
the Company are available on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed on: https://raymondlifestyle.com/disclosures/
details_of_familiarization
15.	 Mr. Sunil Kataria was appointed as Managing Director w.e.f July 1, 2024 and ceased to be Director / Managing Director w.e.f March 31, 2025.
16.	 Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania (DIN: 06863609) was appointed as Executive Chairman and Managing Director w.e.f September 1, 2024.
Board Meetings
The Board meets at regular intervals to discuss and decide on business strategies/policies and review the financial performance of 
the Company and its subsidiaries, apart from other statutory matters as required to be deliberated and approved by the Board.
The notice and detailed agenda along with the relevant notes and other material information are sent in advance separately to each 
Director and in exceptional cases tabled at the meeting with the approval of the Board. The information as specified in Schedule 
II to the SEBI Listing Regulations is regularly made available to the Board, whenever applicable, for discussion and consideration. 
Video-conferencing facility as per procedure mandated under the Act, is also provided to the Directors to facilitate them to attend 
the meetings conveniently. The Board Agenda includes an Action Taken Report comprising of actions arising from the previous Board 
Meetings and status updates thereof.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the Board of Directors met seven times i.e., on April 30, 2024, July 09, 2024, August 05, 2024, 
September 03, 2024, November 05, 2024, January 30, 2025 and February 11, 2025. All meetings were held with a gap of less than 
120 days. Also, due to business exigencies, few resolutions were passed through Circulation and the said resolutions were noted at 
the subsequent Board Meetings.
The Company follows the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India in relation to the 
Board Meetings and General Meetings.
Attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings and at the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM“):
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
No. of Board Meetings
Attendance at the AGM held on 
May 27, 2024
Held
Eligible to 
attend
Attended
1.
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
7
7
6
Absent
2.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
7
5
5
Not Applicable
3.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
7
5
5
Not Applicable
4.
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
7
5
5
Not Applicable
5.
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy
7
7
7
Absent
6.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
7
7
7
Absent
7.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal*
7
7
7
Absent
8.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
7
4
4
Not Applicable
9.
Mr. Sunil Kataria**
7
7
6
Absent
10.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
7
5
5
Not Applicable
11.
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada***
7
2
2
Absent
12.
Mr. Debjit Rudra***
7
2
2
Absent
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
157
Resignation of an Independent Director
During the year under review, Mrs. Rashmi Mundada, 
Independent Director of the Company resigned from the Board 
w.e.f July 16, 2024 due to other professional engagements.
Core Skills / Expertise / Competencies available with the 
Board
The Board evaluates its composition to ensure that it has 
the appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge to ensure its continued effectiveness. The Board 
Members should, at a minimum, have a background that when 
combined provides a portfolio of experience and knowledge 
that will serve Company’s governance and strategic needs. 
The Directors have demonstrated experience and ability that is 
relevant to the Board’s oversight role with respect to Company’s 
business and affairs.
In terms of SEBI Listing Regulations, the following skills, 
expertise and competencies have been identified by the Board 
of Directors as required in the context of its business and sector 
for it to function effectively:
•	
Industry knowledge;
•	
Leadership and Entrepreneurship;
•	
Strategic Planning;
•	
Business Management;
•	
Corporate Governance;
•	
Financial and Risk Management; and 
•	
Sales, Marketing and Retail.
The Board as a whole possesses abovementioned skills / 
expertise and competencies.
The table below describes the specific areas of expertise of 
individual Board members:
Name of the Director
Area of Expertise
Industry 
knowledge
Leadership and 
Entrepreneurship
Strategic 
Planning
Business 
Management
Corporate 
Governance
Financial and 
Risk
Management
Sales, 
Marketing 
and Retail
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
-
√
-
√
√
√
√
Mr. Dinesh Lal
√
√
-
√
√
√
√
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
-
-
√
√
√
√
-
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy
√
-
√
√
√
√
-
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
-
√
√
√
√
√
-
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
√
√
√
√
-
-
√
Mr. Veneet Nayar
-
√
√
√
√
√
-
Role of Executive Chairman and Managing Director
The primary role of Executive Chairman and Managing Director 
is to provide leadership to the Board in achieving the goals of 
the Company. His role, inter-alia, includes the following:
•	
Provide leadership to the Board and preside over all Board 
& General Meetings;
•	
Achieve goals in accordance with Company’s overall 
vision;
•	
Ensure that Board decisions are aligned with Company’s 
strategic policies;
•	
Ensure to place all relevant matters before the Board and 
encourage active participation by all Directors to enable 
them to provide their expert guidance; and
•	
Lead and monitor the core management team.
Role of Non-Executive Directors (including Independent 
Directors)
Non-Executive Directors play a critical role in balancing 
the functioning of the Board by providing their independent 
judgements on various matters discussed in the Board 
meetings like formulation of business strategies, monitoring of 
performances, etc. Their role, inter-alia, include the following:
•	
Striking balance with the overall Board by providing 
independent judgement;
•	
Providing valuable suggestions / opinions on Company’s 
strategies and overall performance; and
•	
Scrutinizing the performance of the management.
Directorship of Independent Directors and disclosures
As per Regulation 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Independent Directors of the Company do not serve as 
Independent Director in more than seven listed companies. 
Further, none of the Independent Directors of the Company 
serve as a Whole-Time Director / Managing Director in any other 
listed Companies. No Whole-Time Director / Managing Director 
of the Company is serving as Independent Director in more than 
three listed companies. Mrs. Rashmi Mundada, Independent 
Director of the Company has resigned w.e.f. July 16, 2024. 
Since, Mrs. Mundada resigned before the listing of the equity 
shares of the Company on stock exchanges, the disclosure of 
detailed reasons for her resignation is not applicable.
Confirmations by the Independent Directors:
All Independent Directors have provided their annual 
declarations stating that they meet the criteria of independence 
as laid down under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 
16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. They have also given 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
158
declaration under Rule 6(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 confirming 
compliance with Rule 6(1) and (2) of the said Rules that their 
names are registered in the databank as maintained by the 
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (“IICA”).
Basis the declaration as submitted by the Independent 
Directors and due assessment of the veracity undertaken 
by the Board, in terms of Regulation 25(9) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Board opined that the Independent Directors 
fulfil the conditions of independence specified in Section 
149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and are independent from the management. 
A formal letter of appointment to Independent Directors as 
provided in the Act has been issued at the time of appointment 
and disclosed on the website of the Company viz., https://
raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Terms%20&%20Condition%20
for%20appointment%20of%20Independent%20Director.pdf
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INSURANCE
The Company has undertaken Directors and Officers Liability 
Insurance (‘D & O insurance’) for all its Directors, including 
Independent Directors, for quantum and risks as determined 
appropriate by the Board of Directors of the Company.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The Board of Directors has constituted various Board 
Committees to deal with specific areas and activities which 
concern the Company and requires a closer review. The Board 
Committees are formed with the approval of the Board and 
function within their respective Terms of References. These 
Committees play a pivotal role in the overall Management of 
day-to-day affairs and governance of the Company. The Board 
Committees meet at regular intervals and take necessary steps 
to perform their duties entrusted by the Board. The Minutes of 
the Committee Meetings are placed before the Board for noting.
The Company has 9 (nine) Board Level Committees:
A.	
Audit Committee;
B.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
C.	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee;
D.	 Risk Management Committee;
E.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee;
F.	
Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
G.	 Investment and Finance Committee
H.	 Information and Technology Committee and
I.	
Committee (Allotment & Listing of Shares)
A) 	 Audit Committee
	
Composition
	
The Audit Committee is entrusted with the responsibility 
of supervising the Company’s financial reporting process 
and internal controls. The composition, quorum, powers, 
role and scope are in accordance with Section 177 of the 
Act and the provisions of Regulation 18 read with Part C 
of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations. All members of 
the Audit Committee are financially literate and bring in 
expertise in the fields of Finance, Taxation, Economics, 
Risk and International Finance. It functions in accordance 
with its charter, that defines its authority, responsibility and 
reporting function.
As on March 31, 2025 the composition of Audit Committee was as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Position
Category
Date of 
Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
Chairperson
Independent Director
April 30, 2024
-
2.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
4.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
Member
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
5.
Mr. Debjit Rudra
Member
Executive Director
November 9, 2023
April 30, 2024
6.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Member
Independent Director
September 07,2020
July 15, 2024
7.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
Member
Non-Executive
Non – Independent Director
January 18, 2024
December 30, 2024
Notes:
a.	
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy was inducted as Chairperson of the Audit Committee w.e.f. April 30, 2024.
b.	
The designation of Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal was changed from Independent Director to Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
of the Company w.e.f. November 1, 2024.
Meetings and Attendance
The Audit Committee met five times during the Financial Year 2024-25. The maximum gap between two Meetings was not less than 
120 days. The Committee met on April 30, 2024, July 08, 2024, August 05, 2024, November 05, 2024 and January 29, 2025. Since, 
the Company was listed on BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India with effect from September 5, 2024, the provisions 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations became applicable from the date of listing. Therefore, at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 
May 27, 2024, the presence of the Chairperson for the Audit Committee meetings was not applicable. The requisite quorum was 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
159
present at all the Meetings. During the year under review, Mr. K Narasimha Murthy was appointed as the Chairperson of the Audit 
committee w.e.f. April 30, 2024. During the year under review, the representatives of the Statutory Auditors attended the Audit 
Committee meetings, where Financial Results for the second and third quarter were approved.
The table below provides the attendance of the Audit Committee members:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
5
4
4
2.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
5
3
3
3.
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
5
3
3
4.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
5
1
1
5.
Mr. Debjit Rudra
5
1
1
6.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
5
2
2
7.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
5
4
4
Note: During the year under review no Circular Resolution was passed by the Audit Committee.
Role and Terms of Reference
The Board has framed Terms of Refinance of the Audit 
Committee for the purpose of effective compliance with the 
provisions of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Audit Committee inter-alia 
performs the following functions:
1.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and 
the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the 
financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
2.	
Recommending to the Board, the appointment, re-
appointment, terms of appointment and, if required, the 
replacement or removal of the Statutory Auditor and the 
fixation of audit fees;
3.	
Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any other 
services rendered by the Statutory Auditors;
4.	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statement before submission to the Board for approval, 
with particular reference to:
a)	
matters required to be included in the Director’s 
responsibility Statement which forms part of the 
Directors’ Report pursuant to Clause (c) of subsection 
3 of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013;
b)	
changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same;
c)	
major accounting entries involving estimates based 
on the exercise of judgment by management;
d)	
significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings;
e)	
compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements;
f)	
disclosure of any related party transactions and
g)	
modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
5.	
Reviewing with the management, the quarterly financial 
statements before submission to the Board for approval;
6.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses/
application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.) the statement of funds 
utilised for purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document/prospectus/notice and the report submitted 
by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps in this 
matter;
7.	
Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and 
performance and effectiveness of audit process;
8.	
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions 
of the company with related parties;
9.	
 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
10.	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, 
wherever it is necessary;
11.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
12.	 Reviewing with the management, performance of statutory 
and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control 
systems;
13.	  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, 
including the structure of the internal audit department, 
staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, 
reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal 
audit;
14.	 Discussion with internal auditors on any significant findings 
and follow up thereon;
15.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the 
internal auditors into matters where there is suspected 
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems 
of material nature and reporting the matter to the Board;
16.	 Discussion 
with 
statutory 
auditors 
before 
audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well 
as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
160
17.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
18.	 To review the functioning of the Whistle blower mechanism;
19.	 Approval of appointment of CFO (i.e., the whole-time 
Finance Director or any other person heading the finance 
function or discharging that function) after assessing the 
qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the 
candidate;
20.	 reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances from/
investment by the Company in the subsidiary company 
exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of the asset size of the 
subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans / 
advances / investments existing as on the date of coming 
into force of this provision;
21.	 review compliance with the provisions of SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 with reference to 
events which were regarded as UPSI, whether such UPSI 
were shared in the manner expected, instances of leaks, 
if any, instance of breaches of the Code, efficiency of 
sensitization process, etc. at least once in a financial year 
and shall verify that the systems for internal control are 
adequate and are operating effectively; and
22.	 The Committee shall also consider and comment on 
rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving 
merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the Company 
and its shareholders.
	
In fulfilling the above role, the Audit Committee has powers 
to investigate any activity within its terms of reference, to 
seek information from employees and to obtain outside 
legal and professional advice.
Internal Controls and Governance Processes
The Company continuously invests in strengthening its internal 
control and processes. The Audit Committee along with the 
Chief Financial Officer formulates a detailed plan for the Internal 
Auditors for the financial year, which is reviewed subsequently 
at the Audit Committee Meetings. The Internal Auditors attend 
the Meetings of the Audit Committee at regular intervals and 
submit their recommendations to the Audit Committee and 
provide a road map for the future.
B) 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
Composition
	
The composition of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”) is in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 178(1) of the Act and Regulation 19 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
As on March 31, 2025 the composition of the NRC was as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
Chairperson
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
2.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
4.
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
Member
Executive Chairman
January 30, 2024
April 30, 2024
5.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Member
Independent Director
November 9, 2023
July 15, 2024
6.
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada
Member
Independent Director
April 30, 2024
July 15, 2024
7.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
Member
Non-Executive
Non – Independent 
Director
November 9, 2023
December 30, 2024
Notes:
a.	
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi was inducted as Chairperson of the NRC w.e.f. December 30, 2024.
b.	
Due to change in designation from Independent Director to Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company 
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal ceased to be Chairperson of the Committee w.e.f. November 5, 2024.
c.	
The designation of Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania changed from Non-executive Director to Executive Chairman of the Company w.e.f. 
September 1, 2024.
Meeting and Attendance
The NRC met seven times during the year on April 30, 2024, July 08, 2024, August 05, 2024, September 03, 2024, November 05, 
2024, January 30, 2025 and February 11, 2025. The requisite quorum was present at the said Meetings. Since, the Company was 
listed on BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India with effect from September 5, 2024, the provisions of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, became applicable from the date of listing. Therefore, at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on May 27, 2024, prior 
to the Company’s listing the presence of the Chairperson for the NRC meetings held during the year was not applicable. The table 
below provides the attendance of the NRC members:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
161
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Directors
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
7
2
2
2.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
7
5
5
3.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
7
5
5
4.
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
7
1
0
5.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
7
2
2
6.
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada
7
1
1
7.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
7
5
5
Note: Due to business exigencies, few resolutions were passed through Circulation and the said resolutions were noted at the 
subsequent NRC committee meetings.
Terms of Reference
The broad terms of reference of the NRC, as approved by the 
Board, are in compliance with Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and are as follows:
1.	
to help the Board in determining the appropriate size, 
diversity and composition of the Board;
2.	
to recommend to the Board appointment/re-appointment 
and removal of Directors and Senior Management;
3.	
to frame criteria for determining qualifications, positive 
attributes and independence of Directors;
4.	
to recommend to the Board, remuneration payable to the 
Directors and Senior Management (within the appropriate 
limits as defined in the Act);
5.	
to create an evaluation framework for Independent 
Directors and the Board;
6.	
to provide necessary reports to the Chairman after the 
evaluation process is completed by the Directors;
7.	
To recommend whether to extend or continue the term 
of appointment of the independent director, on the basis 
of the report of performance evaluation of independent 
directors;
8.	
to assist in developing a succession plan for the Board and 
Senior Management;
9.	
to assist the Board in fulfilling responsibilities entrusted 
from time-to-time; and
10.	 to delegate of any of its powers to any Member of the 
Committee or the Compliance Officer.
Remuneration Policy
The Company has formulated Nomination, Remuneration 
and Board Diversity Policy w.e.f. July 17, 2024, based on the 
recommendations of the NRC. The Nomination, Remuneration 
and Board Diversity Policy is available on the Company’s 
website at: https://raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Nomination-
Remuneration-&-Board-Diversity-Policy.pdf
Performance Evaluation
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and Regulation 17 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Board has undertaken an evaluation of 
its own performance, the performance of its committees and 
of all the individual Directors including Independent Directors 
and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. A structured 
questionnaire was prepared covering various aspects of the 
Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the composition of 
the Board and its Committees, Board culture, execution and 
performance of specific duties, obligations and governance. 
Suggestions received from the Independent Directors were 
reviewed and noted by the Board.
The performance evaluation of the Executive Chairman and 
Non-Independent Directors was carried out by the Independent 
Directors. The Independent Directors at their separate meeting 
reviewed quality and timeliness of flow of information, 
recommended measures for corporate governance etc. The 
Directors expressed their satisfaction with the evaluation 
process.
The performance evaluation criteria for Independent Directors 
along with the evaluation framework is determined by the NRC, 
basis which the performance of the Independent Directors is 
evaluated.
C) Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Composition
Pursuant to provisions of Section 178(5) of the Act read with 
Regulation 20 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee (‘SRC’) of the Board has been 
constituted. As on March 31, 2025, this Committee comprises 
of three Directors. Mr. Mahendra Doshi acts as the Chairperson 
of the Committee.
Meeting and Attendance
The SRC met once during the Financial Year 2024-25 on March 21, 2025. The requisite quorum was present at the said Meeting. Since, 
the Company was listed on BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India with effect from September 5, 2024, the provisions 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations became applicable from the date of listing. Therefore, at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 
May 27, 2024 prior to the Company’s listing the presence of the Chairperson of the SRC was not applicable. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
162
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
2.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
Member
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
4.
Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
December 30, 2024
Notes:
a.	
Mr. Mahendra Doshi was inducted as Member w.e.f. July 15, 2024 and was designated as Chairperson of the SRC w.e.f. 
December 30, 2024.
b.	
The designation of Mr. Rajiv Sharma was changed from Non-Executive Director to Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. 
November 1, 2024.
The table below highlights the composition and attendance of the Members of the Committee. The requisite quorum was present at 
the Meeting:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
1
1
1
2.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
1
1
1
3.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
1
1
1
4.
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
1
-
-
Mrs. Priti Alkari, Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the 
Committee and is also designated as Compliance Officer 
pursuant to the requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations.
Terms of Reference
The Board approved ‘Terms of Reference’ of the SRC in 
compliance with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 read 
with Part D of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The 
Committee looks into the matters of Shareholders/Investors 
grievances along with other operational matters listed below:
1.	
to consider and resolve the grievances of security 
holders of the Company including complaints related to 
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-
receipt of declared dividends, general meetings etc.;
2.	
to grant special/general Power of Attorney in favour of 
employees of the Company from time to time in connection 
with the conduct of the business of the Company 
particularly with Government and Quasi-Government 
Institutions;
3.	
to fix record date/book closure of share/debenture transfer 
book of the Company from time to time;
4.	
to appoint representatives to attend the general meetings 
of other companies in which the Company is holding 
securities;
5.	
to monitor implementation and compliance with the 
Company’s Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider 
Trading;
6.	
to review measures taken for effective exercise of voting 
rights by shareholders;
7.	
to review adherence to the standards adopted by the 
Company in respect of various services being rendered by 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent;
8.	
to review the measures and initiatives taken by the 
Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/
annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders of the 
Company;
9.	
to carry out any other function as prescribed under the 
SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulation, 2015, the Companies Act, 2013 and other 
applicable laws as amended from time to time;
10.	 to review and approve statutory, mandatory or regulatory 
matters relating to subsidiary companies of the Company; 
and
11.	 to carry out any other duties that may be delegated to the 
Committee by the Board of Directors from time-to-time.
	
The Secretarial Department of the Company and the 
Registrar and Transfer Agent, MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited (formerly known as Link Intime India Private 
Limited) attend to all grievances of the shareholders 
received directly or through SEBI, Stock Exchanges, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Registrar of Companies, etc. 
The Minutes of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
Meetings are circulated to the Board and noted by the 
Board of Directors.
	
Continuous efforts are made to ensure that grievances are 
more expeditiously redressed to the complete satisfaction 
of the investors. Shareholders are requested to furnish 
their updated telephone numbers and e-mail addresses to 
facilitate prompt action.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
163
Details of Shareholders’ Complaints:
The total number of complaints received during the year ended March 31, 2025 were 18. There was one complaint outstanding as on 
March 31, 2025. Shareholders’/Investors’ complaints and other correspondence are normally attended to within 7 (seven) working 
days except those which are constrained by disputes or legal impediments.
The details of complaints received, resolved, pending during the FY 2024-25 is given below:
Complaints pending as on September 5, 2024
0
Complaints received during the year
18
Complaints resolved during the year
17
Complaints pending as on March 31, 2025
1
The above table includes Complaints received by the Company from SEBI SCORES, Online Dispute Resolution Portal (ODR) and 
through Stock Exchanges where the securities of the Company are listed.
D) 	 Risk Management Committee
	
Composition
	
The composition of the Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’) is in conformity with the requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
with majority of members being Directors of the Company.
As on March 31, 2025 the composition of the RMC is as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director / Executive
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of cessation
1.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
2.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
Note: The RMC was constituted w.e.f. July 15, 2024.
Meetings and Attendance
The Committee met once during the year on December 3, 2024. The requisite quorum was present at the said meeting. Since, the 
Company was listed on BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India with effect from September 5, 2024, SEBI Listing 
Regulations became applicable from the date of listing. Therefore, only one meeting of RMC was held from the date of listing till the 
end of the Financial Year 2024-25.
The table below provides the attendance of the Risk Management Committee Members:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors / Executive
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
1
1
1
2.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
1
1
1
3.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
1
1
1
Role and Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of RMC are as under:
1.	
To formulate and monitor the implementation of Risk 
Management Policy of the Company and periodical review 
of the same, which shall include:
a.	
a framework for identification of internal and 
external risks specifically faced by the Company, in 
particular including financial, operational, sectoral, 
sustainability 
(particularly, 
ESG 
related 
risks), 
information, cyber security risks or any other risk as 
may be determined by the Committee.
b.	
Measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks.
c.	
Business continuity plan
2.	
To put in place mechanism for ensuring cyber security;
3.	
To assist the Audit Committee with regard to the 
identification, evaluation, classification and mitigation 
of business, operational, strategic, financial, credit, 
market, liquidity, security, property, IT, legal, regulatory, 
reputational and any other internal or external risks and 
assess management actions to mitigate the risk;
4.	
To review effectiveness of risk management and control 
system;
5.	
To implement proper internal checks and balances and 
review the same periodically;
6.	
To achieve prudent balance between risk and reward in 
both ongoing and new business activities;
7.	
To coordinate its activities with the Audit Committee in 
instances where there is any overlap with audit activities;
8.	
To continually obtain reasonable assurance from 
management that all known and emerging risks and 
contingencies have been identified and mitigated;
9.	
To build risk awareness culture within the Company 
to ensure that employees at all levels understand the 
Company’s approach to risk as well as its risk-related 
goals;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
164
10.	 To review the steps taken by management to ensure 
adequate independence of the risk management function 
and the processes for resolution and escalation of 
differences that might arise between risk management and 
business functions;
11.	 To review internal systems of formal and informal 
communication across divisions and control functions to 
encourage the prompt and coherent flow of risk-related 
information within and across business units and, as 
needed, the prompt escalation of information to Board/ 
Committees of Board as appropriate;
12.	 To provide assurance to the Audit Committee that risk 
management and processes for control over risks are 
effective;
13.	 The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of 
the Chief Risk Officer shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee.
14.	 To monitor progress on adherence to mitigation plans / 
additional controls / recommend additional mitigation 
plans;
15.	 To consider any material design or operational issues 
raised by an incident, fraud or regulatory review;
16.	 To assess new initiatives, projects, business models or 
other strategic decisions and advise;
17.	 To review and reassess charter and policy annually, 
including by considering the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity;
18.	 To initiate immediate actions to control the impact of a 
materialized risk event;
19.	 To carry out such functions as listed under SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015;
20.	 To look after such other functions as may be delegated to it 
by the Board, from time to time;
E) 	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Composition
	
The Composition of Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee (“CSRC”) is in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 135 of the Act and the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. As on March 
31, 2025, the Committee comprises of three Directors as 
under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
2.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
Member
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
4.
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam 
Singhania
Member
Non-Executive Director
January 24, 2022
April 30, 2024
5.
Mr. Debjit Rudra
Member
Executive Director
November 09, 2023
April 30, 2024
6.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
Member
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director
April 30, 2024
July 15, 2024
7.
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada
Member
Independent Director
April 30, 2024
July 15, 2024
8.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
Member
Independent Director
April 30, 2024
July 15, 2024
9.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
December 30, 2024
10.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Member
Independent Director
January 24, 2022
April 30, 2024
Notes:
a.	
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal was inducted and designated as Chairperson of the CSRC w.e.f. April 30, 2024 and ceased to be 
Chairperson and member of the committee w.e.f. July 15, 2025.
b.	
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania ceased to be Chairperson and Member of the Committee w.e.f. April 30, 2024.
As per the requirement of Section 135 of the Act, the CSR 
expenditure required to be incurred by the Company for FY 
2024-25 was ₹284 Lakh.
The Company has formulated CSR Policy and the said 
policy is uploaded on the website of the Company at: 
www.raymondlifestyle.com.
Terms of Reference
The brief terms of reference of CSR Committee are as under:
1.	
Decide the CSR activities to be taken up by the Company in 
accordance with this Policy;
2.	
Decide the amount to be allocated for each project or 
activity;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
165
3.	
Oversee and monitor the progress of the initiatives rolled 
out under this Policy; and
4.	
Submit a report to the Board of Directors on all CSR 
activities undertaken during the financial year which shall 
duly be displayed on the Company’s website at: www.
raymondlifestyle.com
5.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, an annual action 
plan in pursuance of its CSR policy, which shall include the 
following, namely: -
a)	
the list of CSR projects or programmes that are 
approved to be undertaken in areas or subjects 
specified in Schedule VII of the Act;
b)	
the manner of execution of such projects or 
programmes as specified in CSR Rules;
c)	
the 
modalities 
of 
utilisation 
of 
funds 
and 
implementation schedules for the projects or 
programmes;
d)	
monitoring and reporting mechanism for the projects 
or programmes; and
e)	
details of need and impact assessment, if any, for the 
projects undertaken by the company.
Meetings and Attendance
The Committee met twice during the year on October 17, 2024 and March 21, 2025. The requisite quorum was present at the said 
meeting. The table below provides the attendance of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee members:
Sr. No.
Name
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
2
2
2
2.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
2
2
2
3.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
2
1
1
4.
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania
2
0
0
5.
Mr. Debjit Rudra
2
0
0
6.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
2
0
0
7.
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada
2
0
0
8.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
2
0
0
9.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
2
1
0
Note: Due to business exigencies, one resolution was passed through Circulation and the said resolution was noted at the subsequent 
committee meeting.
F) Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
The Environmental, Social and Governance Committee (‘ESGC’) was constituted by the Board in July 2024, to steer the sustainability 
activities of the Company. The Committee met once during the year on November 5, 2024. As on March 31, 2025, the Committee 
comprises of three Directors as under:
Sr. No.
Name of Directors
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
2.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
Member
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
4.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
December 30, 2024
Notes:
a.	
The ESGC was formed w.e.f. July 15, 2024.
b.	
The designation of Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal was changed from Independent Director to Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
of the Company w.e.f. November 1, 2024.
Terms of Reference
The brief terms of reference of ESG Committee are as 
under
1.	
Approve the ESG strategy and provide oversight to the 
execution of the Company’s ESG initiatives including the 
short-term and long-term commitments or targets;
2.	
Periodically 
review 
implementation, 
execution 
and 
progress of the Company’s ESG initiatives;
3.	
Identify and recommend to the Board / Risk Management 
Committee on matters relating to ESG risk and associated 
mitigation plans, emerging trends in ESG, effectiveness of 
Company’s ESG plans etc.;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
166
4.	
Review the ESG reporting, policies and disclosures in 
accordance with the applicable laws, regulations and 
other national/ international standards;
5.	
To advise the Board on stakeholder proposals and other 
significant stakeholder concerns relating to ESG Matters; 
and
6.	
Do such other acts, deeds and things as deemed necessary 
for achievement of ESG goals, targets and strategy of the 
Company;
Meetings and Attendance
The Committee met once during the year on November 5, 2024. The requisite quorum was present at the said meeting. The table 
below provides the attendance of the ESGC members:
Sr. No.
Name
No. of Meeting
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
1
1
1
2.
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
1
1
1
3.
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
1
0
0
4.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
1
1
0
Note: One resolution was passed through Circulation due to urgent business requirement but the same was not approved by the 
Committee.
G) Investment and Finance Committee
The Investment and Finance Committee (‘IFC’) constituted by the Board from July 2024, inter alia to approve investments borrowing/
lend monies, extend guarantee/security, if required, with a view to ensure smooth operation and timely action. The investments, loans, 
borrowings, guarantees/security transactions are sanctioned by the Committee within the ceiling limits. The IFC is also entrusted with 
the powers relating to certain matters in connection with any banking, statutory, legal and taxation.
The Committee met once during the year on January 30, 2025. As on March 31, 2025, the Committee comprises of three Directors 
as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
Chairperson
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
2.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Member
Independent Director
July 15, 2024
-
Terms of Reference
The brief terms of reference of IFC are as under:
Delegated power under the Companies Act, 2013:
(a)	 To borrow money in the form of working capital facilities, 
inter corporate deposits and/or long term or other financial 
facilities from Banks/ Financial Institutions/Institutional 
Investors/other companies and bodies corporate subject 
to the overall limit approved by shareholders and borrowing 
powers delegated by the Board and to create security on 
the assets of the Company and to authorise any officials 
of the Company to execute any documents in connection 
with availing of such financial facilities and creation of 
securities;
(b)	 Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
to invest the funds of the Company from time to time 
in Shares, Debentures, Bonds, Mutual Funds units or 
other securities of bodies corporate on such terms and 
conditions as may deem appropriate provided that the 
amount of investments to be made at a time shall not 
exceeds specified financial limits;
(c)	 To give loans/place deposits with any corporate body or 
persons of such amount as may be specified in compliance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 which may 
be reviewed by the Board from time to time;
(d)	 To issue guarantees on behalf of the Company as may be 
necessary from time to time within the over all limits set 
by the Board and in compliance of the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013;
(e)	 To authorize affixation of Common Seal as may be required 
by the Company on documents required to be executed 
by the Company. Common seal shall be invariably affixed 
in the presence of one Director and the CFO/Company 
Secretary irrespective of the requirement in the Articles/
Companies Act, 2013;
Banking and other related matters
(f)	 To open, operate and close Bank accounts with any banks 
in India and abroad and to authorise availing internet 
banking faculties and online trade finance facilities;
(g)	 To open, operate and close Demat accounts with any 
Depository Participant in India and abroad;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
167
(h)	 To authorise signing of Letter of Credit, documents for 
negotiations, promissory notes and any other documents 
relating to banking and finance operations of the Company;
(h-1) To avail Trade on Net / E-trade / e-discounting/electronic 
factoring on electronic platform of Banks / Financial 
Institutions.
(h-2) To avail bill discounting and to provide vendor financing 
facilities provided by various Banks / Financial Institutions 
through electronic platform.
(h-3) To avail digital payment services through unified payment 
interface, payment gateway service provider or their 
channel partners regulated by Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
(h-4) To avail Corporate Credit / Debit Card facility for the 
Company and / or its executives.
Statutory, legal and taxation related matters
(i)	
To make applications to various Government /Non-
Government, local authorities and to seek approvals, 
consent etc., that may be required in connection with the 
company’s business;
(j)	
To delegate powers, make changes, in the authorized 
signatories of the Company with all matters related to 
Central Excise Act & Rules framed there under, Customs 
Act & Rules framed there under, Goods and Service 
Tax Act, Central and State Sales Tax/Value Added Tax & 
Rules framed there under, Foreign Trade (Development & 
Regulation) Act & Rules framed there under, issue related 
to Director General Foreign Trade (DGFT), Foreign Trade 
Policy & Rules framed there under, Foreign Exchange 
Management Act,1999, Reserve Bank of India and any 
other rules and regulations made thereunder, Ministry of 
Civil Aviation/ Ministry of Home Affairs, Superannuation 
Scheme, Gratuity Trust, PF authorities, or any other 
authorization of similar nature;
(k)	 To authorize officers of the Company for entering into 
general contracts, agreements with relation to operations 
with Statutory/Regulatory Bodies viz., Electricity Boards, 
Ports, Railways, Pollution Control Boards, Town & Country 
Planning Authorities, Municipal Corporations, Panchayats, 
any other Local Bodies or any other similar bodies/
authorities;
(l)	
To authorise officers of the Company to initiate and defend 
all legal proceedings/actions, arbitration proceedings, 
including appointment of counsel, attorneys, mediators, 
arbitrators on behalf of the company and also to execute 
affidavits, 
appeals, 
applications, 
petitions, 
other 
documents and all such necessary/incidental steps 
necessary in this regard;
(m)	 To review all legal cases-for and against the Company and 
appoint any person, whether they be employees of the 
company or not to represent the Company before various 
courts, government authorities/ bodies and other statutory 
bodies/ authorities;
(n)	 To authorise one or more persons to sign necessary 
registration documents, deeds papers for purchase /sale/ 
take or give on lease basis, land, factory buildings, office 
premises / residential premises for the purpose of business 
subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Articles of Association of the Company;
Finance and other related matters
(o)	 To review, recommend and approve Delegation of Powers, 
Schedule of Authority/authority matrix for the Company 
and for each of its Division/ Units and also to suggest and 
approve changes/ modifications / amendments therein;
(p)	 To enter into and review inter company transactions with 
group entities;
(q)	 To authorise execution of major procurement including 
Annual Rate Contracts;
(r)	 To purchase and dispose off the assets (movable or 
immovable) on such terms and conditions as may be 
deemed fit;
(s)	 To change the signatories for availment of various facilities 
from Banks/Financial Institution;
(t)	 To grant authority to execute and sign foreign exchange 
contracts and derivative transactions;
(u)	 To avail services from any service provider including 
Telecommunication services, mobile services, internet 
services or any other similar service providers.
(v)	 Any other power which the Board may deem fit to delegate 
to the Committee from time to time.
Meetings and Attendance
The Committee met once during the year on January 30, 2025. The requisite quorum was present at the said meeting. The table below 
provides the attendance of the IFC members:
Sr. No.
Name
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
1
1
1
2.
Mr. Dinesh Lal
1
1
1
3.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
1
1
1
Note: Due to business exigency, one resolution was passed through Circulation and the said resolution was noted at the subsequent 
committee meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
168
H) Information and Technology Committee
The Information and Technology Committee (“IT Committee”) was formed w.e.f. December 2024, to keep-up the pace with use of 
advanced technology, artificial intelligence, digital markets and enhanced security of digital records and database of the Company. 
The IT Committee shall function in accordance with the powers delegated by the Board under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and subject to the Memorandum and Articles of Association. The primary purpose of the Committee is to oversee and approve 
matters pertaining to information technology use, cybersecurity, data protection and IT infrastructure of the Company. During the year 
under review, no Meeting of the Committee was held.
As on March 31, 2025, the Committee comprises of three Directors as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. Veneet Nayar
Chairperson
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
2.
Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
Member
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
Member
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director
December 30, 2024
-
Terms of Reference
The brief terms of reference of IT Committee are as under:
1.	
Review and approve the Company’s technology planning 
and strategy;
2.	
Review 
significant 
technology 
investments 
and 
expenditures;
3.	
Monitor and evaluate existing and future trends in 
technology that may affect the Company’s strategic plans, 
including monitoring of overall industry trends;
4.	
Receive reports from management concerning the 
Company’s technology operations including, among 
other things, software development project performance, 
technical operations performance, technology architecture 
and significant technology investments and approve 
related policies or recommend such policies to the Board 
for approval, as appropriate;
5.	
Review of data protection policy, its implementation and 
reporting of data leakages;
6.	
Review of e-commerce portal and security of online 
transactions;
7.	
Review the annual Cybersecurity plan, Cyber Crisis 
Management Plan and escalated significant Cybersecurity 
incidents; and
8.	
Do such other acts, deeds and things as the Board of 
Directors shall specifically delegate to the Committee.
I) Committee (Allotment & Listing of Shares)
The Committee (Allotment & Listing of Shares) was constituted by Board in July 2024, to deal with matters connected with issue, 
allotment, listing and trading of equity shares of the Company and to deal with Merchant Bankers, Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agents, Depositories, Stock Exchanges, Auditors and approval of reports, Information Memorandum etc.
As on March 31, 2025, the Committee comprises of following as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Directors
Position
Category
Date of Appointment
Date of Cessation
1.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Member
Independent Director
July 09, 2024
-
2.
Mr. Sunil Kataria
Member
Managing Director
July 09, 2024
-
3.
Mr. Sameer Shah
Member
Chief Financial Officer
July 09, 2024
-
4.
Mrs. Priti Alkari
Member
Company Secretary
July 09, 2024
-
Notes: 
a.	
Mr. Sunil Kataria ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. March 31, 2025.
b.	
Mr. Sameer Shah has tendered his resignation, which shall be effective July 31, 2025.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
169
Terms of Reference 
The brief terms of reference of the Committee are as under:
1.	
To deal with any matters connected with issue, allotment, 
listing and trading of equity shares of the Company 
including preparation of listing application, compliance 
with listing agreements and maintenance of listing 
requirements and to deal with merchant bankers, Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agents, Depositories, Depository 
Participants, Stock Exchanges, Auditors, Reports, Approval 
of Information Memorandum etc.
2.	
To deal with matters related to trading of equity shares, 
including investor relations and compliance with securities 
laws.
3.	
To do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as they 
may, in their absolute discretion deem necessary, proper 
or desirable and to settle any question, difficulty or doubt 
that may arise with regards to the issue & allotment shares, 
corporate action with Depositories, listing of shares, 
entitlement of fraction, sale of shares issued against 
fraction, distribution of sales proceeds against fractional 
entitlement, dealing with any statutory authority/ies in 
connection with allotment of shares as they may deem fit.
4.	
To appoint and remove advisors, consultants and other 
professionals as may be necessary to carry out the 
functions of the Committee.
5.	
To exercise such other powers as may be delegated to it by 
the Board of Directors from time to time;
Meetings and Attendance
The Committee met once during the year on July 17, 2024. The table below provides the attendance of the members:
Sr. No.
Name
No. of Meetings
Held
Eligible to attend
Attended
1.
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
1
1
1
2.
Mr. Sunil Kataria
1
1
1
3.
Mr. Sameer Shah
1
1
1
4.
Mrs. Priti Alkari
1
1
1
Note: Mr. Mahendra Doshi was elected as Chairperson of the aforesaid Meeting.
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS’ MEETING
Pursuant to requirements of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations 
the Company’s Independent Directors met once during the 
Financial Year without the presence of Non–Executive Directors, 
Executive Directors or Management to discuss the matters as 
laid out therein for such meetings. Further, interactions outside 
the Board meeting take place between the Chairman and 
Independent Directors on a regular basis.
During the year, the Independent Directors met once on March 
21, 2025, inter-alia, to:
•	
Review the performance of Non-Independent Directors 
and the Board as a whole;
•	
Review the performance of the Chairman of the Company, 
taking into account the views of the Executive and Non-
Executive Directors;
•	
Assess the quality and timeliness of flow of information 
between the Management and the Board that is necessary 
for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform its 
duties;
•	
Recommend measures that may be considered by the 
Company for Corporate Governance, if any; and
•	
Review recommendations from the last Independent 
Directors meeting along with their implementation status.
Except Mr. Rajiv Sharma, all the Independent Directors were 
present at this Meeting.
PARTICULARS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Details of Senior Management Personnel (“SMP”) as on March 31, 2025:
Sr No
Name of Senior Management Personnel
Designation
1
Mr. Manish Bharti
Chief Business Officer - Garmenting
2
Mr. Vikram Mahaldar
Chief Business Officer - Suiting
3
Mr. Debdeep Sinha
Chief Business Officer – Sleepz & Innerwear
4
Mr. Neeraj Nagpal (w.e.f February 11, 2025)
Chief Business Officer - Apparel, MTM and Retail
5
Mr. M.L. Patnaik
CHRO-Lifestyle
6
Mr. Anupam Dikshit
Chief Business Officer- Shirting
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
170
Sr No
Name of Senior Management Personnel
Designation
7
Mr. Vipul Mathur (w.e.f October 9, 2024)
Chief Business Officer- Raymond Home & Ethnix
8
Mr. Vinod Salvi (upto January 3, 2025)
Chief Business Officer- Raymond Home
8
Mr. Priti Alkari
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
III.	 REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
A.	 Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors (including 
Independent Directors)
	
The Non-Executive Directors are paid remuneration by 
way of sitting fees and commission. The Non-Executive 
Directors are paid sitting fees for each Meeting of the 
Board or Committee attended by them. The total amount 
of sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors during 
the Financial Year 2024-25 was ₹ 77.75 Lakh. The Non-
Executive Director/Independent Directors do not have any 
pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company. 
In addition, professional fees for consultancy services 
can be paid to the Non-Executive Directors with the prior 
approval of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
Audit Committee and the Board.
B.	 Remuneration to Executive Director
	
The appointment and remuneration of Executive Director 
i.e. Executive Chairman and Managing Director is governed 
by the recommendation of the NRC, Resolutions passed 
by the Board of Directors and Shareholders of the 
Company and Agreement executed between him and 
the Company. The remuneration package of Executive 
Chairman and Managing Director comprises salary, 
perquisites, allowances, contributions to Provident 
and other Retirement Benefit Funds as approved by the 
shareholders at the General Meetings. Annual increments 
are linked to performance and are decided by the NRC and 
recommended to the Board for approval thereof.
Details of Remuneration paid to Directors for the year ended March 31, 2025
(a) Non-Executive Directors
 The details of Sitting Fees paid/payable to Non-Executive Directors for the Financial Year 2024-25 are as under:
Name of the Director
Sitting Fees (₹)
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
No. of shares held
Mrs. Anisha Motwani****
7,00,000
Mr. Dinesh Lal****
10,00,000
-
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi****
8,50,000
-
Mr. K Narasimha Murthy
10,00,000
-
Mr. Mahendra Vasantrai Doshi
10,50,000
80
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania*
-
2040
Mr. Rajiv Sharma*****
4,25,000
-
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada**
2,50,000
-
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal***
11,50,000
-
Mr. Veneet Nayar****
8,50,000
-
*	
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. April 25, 2024.
**	
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. July 16, 2024.
***	 Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal ceased to be Director of the Company w.e.f. April 11, 2025.
****	 Mrs. Anisha Motwani, Mr. Dinesh Lal, Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi and Mr. Veneet Nayar were appointed as Independent 
Director w.e.f. July 9, 2024.
***** Mr. Rajiv Sharma was appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. August 25, 2024.
Notes:
Criteria for making payment to Non-executive Directors as specified in Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy of the 
Company are available on the website of the Company and can be accessed through the web link at https://raymondlifestyle.com/
uploads/Nomination-Remuneration-&-Board-Diversity-Policy.pdf.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
171
(b) Executive Directors
(₹ in Lakh)
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania, Executive 
Chairman*
Mr. Sunil Kataria,
Managing Director*
Present Term of Appointment
5 years from September 1, 2024 to 
August 31, 2029
5 years from July 1, 2024 to
 June 30, 2029
Salary and Allowances
503.40
576.01
Commission
-
-
Variable Pay
-
-
Perquisites
-
-
Retirement Benefits $
97.88
34.49
Sitting Fees
5.00
-
Sitting Fees from Subsidiary 
Companies
-
-
Minimum Remuneration
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania is entitled to 
minimum remuneration comprising of salary, 
perquisites and benefits as per the applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 in the 
event of inadequacy/absence of profits
Mr. Sunil Kataria was entitled to minimum 
remuneration comprising of salary, perquisites 
and benefits as per the applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 in the event of 
inadequacy/absence of profits
Notice Period and Severance 
Fees
Six months’ notice or six months’ salary in lieu 
thereof
Six months’ notice or six months’ salary in lieu 
thereof
No. of Shares held
23 Equity Shares
Nil
$ This amount does not include amount in respect of gratuity and leave entitlement (both of which are ascertained actuarially) as the 
same would be determined on retirement.
* Remuneration is within limits recommended by NRC and approved by Board for the period September 1, 2024 to August 31, 2029 
and approved by the Members of the Company vide Special Resolution passed on December 4, 2024.
Note: Mr. Sunil Kataria ceased to be the Managing Director of the Company w.e.f. March 31, 2025.
IV. General Body Meetings
Details of Last Three Annual General Meetings Held:
AGM
Financial 
Year
 Date and Time
Venue
Details of Special Resolution Passed
4th
2021-22
August 30, 2022
11:00 AM
Plot G-35 & 36, M.I.D.C 
Waluj Taluka Gangapur, 
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, 
431146.
No Special Resolution was passed
5th
2022-23
August 1, 2023
11:00 AM
Plot G-35 & 36, M.I.D.C 
Waluj Taluka Gangapur, 
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, 
431146.
No Special Resolution was passed
6th
2023-24
May 27, 2024 
11:00 AM
Plot G-35 & 36, M.I.D.C 
Waluj Taluka Gangapur, 
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, 
431146.
• Enabling resolution to authorize borrowings upto 
₹ 3,500 Crore.
• Creating charge on the Assets of the Company for an 
amount not exceeding ₹ 3,500 Crore.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
172
Postal Ballot
During the year, following Special Resolutions were passed by the Company through Postal Ballot the results of which were declared 
on December 4, 2024:
i.	
Appointment of Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania (DIN: 00020088) as an Executive Chairman of the Company and to fix his 
Remuneration.
ii.	
Appointment of Mr. Dinesh Lal (DIN: 00037142) as an Independent Director of the Company.
iii.	 Appointment of Mrs. Anisha Motwani (DIN: 06943493) as an Independent Woman Director of the Company.
iv.	
Appointment of Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi (DIN: 00110996) as an Independent Director of the Company.
v.	
Appointment of Mr. Veneet Nayar (DIN: 02007846) as an Independent Director of the Company.
vi.	 Continuation of Mr. Mahendra Doshi (DIN: 00123243) as an Independent Director beyond the age of 75 years.
vii.	 Appointment of Mr. Sunil Kataria (DIN: 06863609) as the Managing Director of the Company and to fix his Remuneration.
viii.	 Appointment of Mr. Rajiv Sharma (DIN: 10748015) as an Independent Director of the Company.
ix.	 Redesignation of Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal (DIN: 00003922) as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Procedure for Postal ballot
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 of the Act read with Rule 22 of Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 
(Management Rules), as amended, the Company had issued Postal Ballot Notice dated November 04, 2024 to the Members, seeking 
their consent with respect to the above mentioned resolutions.
In compliance with provisions of Section 108 and Section 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act read with the Management 
Rules and relevant MCA Circulars, the Company had provided remote e-voting facility to all the Members of the Company. The 
Company engaged the services of National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), for facilitating e-voting to enable the Members 
to cast their votes electronically. The voting period commenced on Tuesday, November 5, 2024 at 9.00 A.M. (IST) and ended on 
Wednesday, December 4, 2024 at 5.00 P.M. (IST). The cut-off date, for the purpose of determining the number of Members, was 
Friday, October 25, 2024.
A summary of the voting results is as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Resolution Details
Type of 
Resolution
No. of 
Votes 
polled
Votes cast in favour
Votes cast in against
No. of 
Votes
%
No. of 
Votes
%
1.
Appointment of Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania 
(DIN: 00020088) as an Executive Chairman 
of the Company and to fix his Remuneration.
Special
41757480
36267164
86.8518
5490316
13.1481
2.
Appointment of Mr. Dinesh Lal (DIN: 
00037142) as an Independent Director of 
the Company.
Special
41757224
41730895
99.9369
26329
0.0631
3.
Appointment of Mrs. Anisha Motwani (DIN: 
06943493) as an Independent Woman 
Director of the Company.
Special
41757213
39491480
94.5740
2265733
5.4260
4.
Appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Girish 
Chandra 
Chaturvedi 
(DIN: 
00110996) 
as 
an 
Independent Director of the Company.
Special
41757190
41730330
99.9357
26860
0.0643
5.
Appointment of Mr. Veneet Nayar (DIN: 
02007846) as an Independent Director of 
the Company.
Special
41757096
41730487
99.9363
26609
0.0637
6.
Continuation of Mr. Mahendra Doshi (DIN: 
00123243) as an Independent Director 
beyond the age of 75 years.
Special
41756800
41719147
99.9098
37653
0.0902
7.
Appointment of Mr. Sunil Kataria (DIN: 
06863609) as the Managing Director of the 
Company and to fix his Remuneration.
Special
41757007
37440624
89.6631
4316383
10.3369
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
173
Sr. 
No.
Resolution Details
Type of 
Resolution
No. of 
Votes 
polled
Votes cast in favour
Votes cast in against
No. of 
Votes
%
No. of 
Votes
%
8.
Appointment of Mr. Rajiv Sharma (DIN: 
10748015) as an Independent Director of 
the Company.
Special
41756724
41706937
99.8808
49787
0.1192
9.
Redesignation of Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal (DIN: 
00003922) as a Non-Executive Director of 
the Company.
Special
41756800
41553328
99.5127
203472
0.4873
Mr. Dinesh Deora, (Membership No. F5683, COP No.: 4119), 
Company Secretary in Practice and Partners at M/s. DM & 
Associates Company Secretaries LLP, was appointed as the 
Scrutinizer for carrying out the Postal Ballot process through 
remote e-voting in a fair and transparent manner.
The Scrutinizer, after the completion of scrutiny, submitted 
his report to Mrs. Priti Alkari, Company Secretary, who was 
duly authorised by the Chairperson to accept, acknowledge 
and countersign the Scrutinizer’s Report as well as declare 
the voting results in accordance with the provisions of the Act, 
the Rules framed thereunder and the Secretarial Standard 
- 2 issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India. 
The consolidated results of the voting by Postal Ballot and 
e-voting were announced on December 4, 2024. The results 
were also displayed on the website of the Company at www.
raymondlifestyle.com and on the website of MUFG Intime India 
Private Limited (formerly known as Link Intime India Private 
Limited) and communicated to BSE Limited (BSE), National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
Extra Ordinary General Meeting
During the year under review, two Extra Ordinary General Meetings of the Members were held.
Details of Extra Ordinary General Meeting Held:
Sr. No
 Date and Time
Venue
Details of Resolutions Passed
1.
April 4, 2024
03:00 P.M.
Hotel Satkar Residency, Silver 
Room, 2nd Floor, Pokhran Road 
Number 1, Jekegram, Thane 
(West), Maharashtra 400606.
Change in Name of the Company and consequent amendment in 
the Memorandum and Article of Association of the Company.
2.
April 25, 2024
04:00 P.M.
Plot G-35 & 36, MIDC Waluj, 
Taluka Gangapur, Aurangabad – 
431136.
• Removal of Mrs. Nawaz Singhania (DIN: 00863174) as the 
Director of the Company.
• Appointment of Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy (DIN: 00023046) as an 
Independent Director of the Company.
• Appointment of Mrs. Rashmi Mundada (DIN: 08086902) as an 
Independent Woman Director of the Company.
• Appointment of Mr. Sunil Kataria (Din: 06863609) as a Director of 
the Company.
NCLT Convened Meeting
During the year under review, no NCLT Convened Meeting was 
held.
Means of Communication to Shareholders
(i)	
The Un-audited quarterly/ half yearly results are announced 
within forty-five days of the close of the quarter (or such 
other extended timeline as may be allowed by SEBI and 
MCA). The audited annual results are announced within 
sixty days from the closure of the financial year (or such 
other extended timeline as explained above) as per the 
requirement of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(ii)	 The approved financial results are forthwith sent to the 
Stock Exchanges and are published in Business Standard 
(English newspaper) and Loksatta (Marathi newspaper), 
within forty-eight hours of approval thereof. Presently the 
same is not sent to the shareholders separately.
(iii)	 The Company’s financial results and official press 
releases are displayed on the Company’s website at- 
www.raymondlifestyle.com.
(iv)	 Presentations made to the institutional investors or/and 
analysts are intimated to the Stock Exchanges within 
the prescribed time specified under the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and hosted on the Company’s website 
simultaneously.
(v)	 The Annual Report containing inter-alia the Audited 
Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements, 
Auditors’ Report thereon, Directors Report, Corporate 
Governance Report and Management Discussion and 
Analysis report is circulated to the Members and others 
entitled thereto. The Annual Report is also available on the 
website of the Company and on the website of the Stock 
Exchanges where the Company’s shares are listed.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
174
(vi)	 The quarterly results, shareholding pattern, quarterly 
compliances and all other corporate communication to 
the Stock Exchanges are filed electronically. The Company 
has complied with filing submissions through BSE Listing 
Centre provided by BSE. Likewise, the said information is 
also filed electronically with NSE through NEAPS portal 
provided by NSE.
(vii)	 A separate dedicated section under “Investors” on the 
Company’s website gives information on shareholding 
pattern, quarterly/half yearly results and other relevant 
information of interest to the investors/public.
(viii)	SEBI processes investor complaints in a centralized web-
based complaints redressal system i.e. SCORES. Through 
this system a shareholder can lodge complaint against the 
Company for his/her grievance. The Company uploads the 
action taken on the complaint which can be viewed by the 
shareholder. The Company and shareholder can seek and 
provide clarifications online through SEBI.
(ix)	 The 
Company 
has 
designated 
the 
email 
id: 
secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.in exclusively for investor 
relation and the same is prominently displayed on the 
Company’s website www.raymondlifestyle.com.
V. SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
DAY AND DATE
Monday, August 4, 2025
TIME
3:00 P.M
MODE / VENUE
Through Video Conferencing / Other Audio-Visual Means (there is no requirement to have a 
venue for the AGM) as set out in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
FINANCIAL YEAR
April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025
Tentative Calendar for Financial Year ending March 31, 2026:
The tentative dates for Board Meetings for consideration of quarterly financial results are as follows:
Sr. No.
Particulars of Quarter
Tentative dates*
1.
First Quarter Results
On or before August 14, 2025
2.
Second Quarter & Half Yearly Results
On or before November 14, 2025
3.
Third Quarter & Nine-months ended Results
On or before February 14, 2026
4.
Fourth Quarter & Annual Results
On or before May 30, 2026
*or such other date as may be allowed by SEBI and the MCA.
Dividend
No dividend was recommended by the Board of Directors on 
the Equity Shares of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025 to conserve the resources.
Share Transfer to Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Account (IEPF)
In terms of Section 124(6) of the Act read with Rule 6 of the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended from time 
to time) (IEPF Rules) upon transfer of shares in IEPF, all benefits 
(like bonus shares, dividend, fractional entitlements etc.), if 
any, accruing on such shares shall also be credited to such IEPF 
and the voting rights on such shares shall remain frozen till the 
rightful owner claims the shares.
Pursuant to Composite Scheme of Arrangement between 
Raymond Limited (the ‘Demerged Company’ or ‘RL’) and 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (formerly known as Raymond 
Consumer Care Limited) (the ‘Resulting Company’ or the 
‘Transferee Company’ or ‘RLL’) and Ray Global Consumer 
Trading Limited (the ‘Transferor Company’ or ‘RG’) and their 
respective shareholders (‘the Scheme’), the shareholders of RL 
and RG whose shares were lying in IEPF were not allotted shares 
instead their shares were transferred to IEPF. Accordingly, the 
Company had transferred 6,02,338 shares on July 25, 2024.
Further, the Fractional Entitlements amounting to ₹ 96,89,107 
for the above mentioned shares underlying in IEPF was 
processed on February 5, 2025.
Shares and Fractional Entitlements which are transferred to 
IEPF can be claimed back by the shareholders from Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA) by following 
the procedure prescribed under the aforesaid rules. The 
detailed procedure is also available on the website of the 
Company i.e. www.raymondlifestyle.com.
Details with respect to Demat escrow account
Pursuant to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 
and Composite Scheme of Arrangement the Shareholders of 
Raymond Limited and Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited 
holding shares in physical form were not allotted the shares 
of the Company rather their shares were transferred to the 
Company’s Suspense Escrow Account of the Company.
Shares which are transferred to aforesaid can be claimed back 
by the shareholders by submitting the necessary documents to 
Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent.
During the year under review, 14,185 shares were transferred 
from the said demat account to the rightful owner. Further, no 
Shares were credited by the Company to the said demat escrow 
account.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
175
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025
No. of equity Shares
No. of shareholders
% of shareholders
No. of shares held
% of Shareholding
1 to 500
151901
97.6103
7419385
12.1782
501 to 1000
2231
1.4336
1594192
2.6167
1001 to 2000
782
0.5025
1106041
1.8155
2001 to 3000
236
0.1517
586569
0.9628
3001 to 4000
137
0.088
490240
0.8047
4001 to 5000
47
0.0302
216097
0.3547
5001 to 10000
137
0.088
959593
1.5751
10001 and above
149
0.0957
48551512
79.6923
GRAND TOTAL
155620
100
60923629
100
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2025
Claim shares from Escrow Account
Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 
equity shares are to be issued only in dematerialized form. 
Also as per Clause 12.7 and 23.5 of the Composite Scheme of 
Arrangement approved by the Hon’ble National Company Law 
Tribunal, Mumbai Bench, the Company issued and allotted 
the shares in dematerialized form to all the shareholders of 
Raymond Limited and Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited.
Accordingly, equity shares of the Company allotted to the 
shareholders who held shares of Raymond Limited and Ray 
Global Consumer Trading Limited in physical form have been 
credited to separate escrow accounts opened for this purpose. 
To facilitate the transfer of these shares to the demat account 
of shareholders, they need to submit Form ISR-1, Form 
ISR-2, Form ISR-4 and Self Attested CML to the Company / 
Company’s Registrar & Transfer Agent to claim the shares 
from Escrow Account. Upon receipt and verification of the 
submitted documents, the equity shares will be transferred to 
the demat account of the shareholder in accordance with their 
entitlement.
Outstanding global depository receipts or american 
depository receipts or warrants or any convertible 
instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity
As on March 31, 2025 there were no outstanding global 
depository receipts or american depository receipts or warrants 
or any convertible instruments.
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report
As on March 31, 2025- 100% of the equity shares of the 
Company are in dematerialized  form (NSDL-88.74%) and 
(CDSL-11.26%) .
As stipulated by SEBI, a qualified Practicing Company Secretary 
carries out Share Capital Audit to reconcile the total admitted 
capital with National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) 
and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) 
and the total issued and listed capital. This audit is carried 
out every quarter and the report thereon are submitted to the 
Stock Exchanges where the Company’s shares are listed. This 
audit confirms that the total Listed and Paid-up Capital is in 
agreement with the aggregate of the total number of shares in 
dematerialized form (held with NSDL and CDSL).
54.68%
0.72%
5.42%
0.00%
10.51%
1.25%
27.42%
Promoter Group
Domestic/Insurance Companies
Nationalised Bank/FI/UTI
Mutual Funds
Foreign Institutional Investors (FII)
Non-Resident Individual/Companies
Public/Others
LIFESTYLE LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
176
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Company has complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Listing Details
The Company’s Equity shares are listed on the following Stock Exchanges and the listing fees have been paid to the Exchanges:
Stock Exchange
Scrip Code
BSE Limited (“BSE”)
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001.
544240
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”)
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai– 400051.
RAYMONDLSL
Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures
Pursuant to Composite Scheme of Arrangement, during the year under review, following Secured Redeemable Non-Convertible 
Debentures (NCDs) of face value ₹ 10,00,000/- each have been transferred from Raymond Limited to the Company and they continue 
to be listed on the Negotiated Trade Reporting Platform of National Stock Exchange of India Limited:
Series
Coupon Rate % (p.a.)
ISIN
Principal Amount
Date of Maturity
Debenture 
Trustee
Present Credit 
Rating
(₹ in Crore)
P
9.00
INE301A07060
200
February 9, 2031
Axis Trustee 
Services Limited
CARE AA; 
Stable
Note: During the year under review Series Q NCDs, with principal amount of ₹ 100 Crore were redeemed by the Company on December 
26, 2024.
Service of documents through electronic mode
As a part of Green Initiative, the members who wish to receive the notices/documents through e-mail, may kindly intimate their e-mail 
addresses to the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly known as Link Intime 
India Private Limited) at rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com.
During the year under review the Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company was changed from KFin Technologies 
Limited 
to 
MUFG 
Intime 
India 
Private 
Limited 
(formerly 
known 
as 
Link 
Intime 
India 
Private 
Limited) 
w.e.f.
April 24, 2024.
Address for Correspondence
Compliance Officer
Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent
Company
Debenture Trustee
Mrs. Priti Alkari
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Pokhran Road No.1,
Jekegram, Thane (W) - 400 606.
Tel: 022-40367000
secretarial.lifestyle@raymond.
in
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(formerly known as Link Intime 
India Private Limited)
Unit: Raymond Lifestyle Limited
C-101, 247 Park,
L.B.S Marg,
Vikhroli (West),
Mumbai - 400 083
Tel: 022-49186000/ 49186200
Fax: 022-49186060
rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
(formerly known as Raymond 
Consumer Care Limited),
Secretarial Department,
Pokhran Road No.1,
Jekegram, Thane (W) - 400 
606.
Tel: 022-40367000
secretarial.lifestyle@
raymond.in
Axis Trustee Services Limited
Axis House, Bombay Dyeing 
Mills Compound, Pandurang 
Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai 
- 400 025.
Tel: 022 6230 0451
Fax: 022-43253000
debenturetrustee@
axistrustee.in
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
177
Plant Locations
The Company has the following manufacturing and operating Divisions:
TEXTILE DIVISION:
Jalgaon
No. E-1 and E-11, MIDC Area, Phase II, Ajanta Road, Jalgaon, Maharashtra-425003.
Chhindwara
B1, A.K.V.N., Boregaon Industrial Growth Centre, Kailash Nagar, Tehsil Sauser, Dist. Chhindwara, 
Madhya Pradesh – 480001.
Vapi
N. H. No.8, Khadki - Udwada, Taluka Pardi, District Valsad, Gujarat - 396185.
Apparel:
Thane
Jekegram, Pokhran Road No. 1, Thane (West) – 400 606.
RUBBER PRODUCTS - MALE CONTRACEPTIVES (CONDOMS):
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar 
(Aurangabad)
Plot G-35 & 36, MIDC, Waluj, Taluka Gangapur, Aurangabad – 431136, Maharashtra.
VI. GOVERNANCE CODES
Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
	
The Company has adopted Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics (“the Code”) which is applicable to the Board 
of Directors and all Employees of the Company. The 
Code was formed by the Board of Directors on July 17, 
2024. The Board of Directors and the members of Senior 
Management Team of the Company are required to affirm 
compliance of this code on an annual basis compliance of 
this Code. A declaration signed by the Executive Chairman 
of the Company is placed at the end of this Report. The 
Code requires Directors and Employees to act honestly, 
fairly, ethically and with integrity, conduct themselves in 
professional, courteous and respectful manner and not to 
allow their independent judgement to be subordinated.
Conflict of Interest
	
Each Director informs the Company on an annual basis 
about the Board and the Committee positions he/she 
occupies in other companies including Chairmanships 
and notifies changes therein during the year, if any. The 
Members of the Board, while discharging their duties, avoid 
conflict of interest in the decision-making process. The 
Members of Board restrict themselves from participating in 
any discussions and voting on transactions in which they 
are concerned or interested.
Insider Trading Code
	
The Company has adopted an ‘Internal Code of Conduct 
for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting of Trades by 
Designated Persons (“the Code”) in accordance with the 
SEBI PIT Regulations”. The Code was formed by the Board 
of Directors on July 17, 2024 and was further amended on 
May 12, 2025.
	
The Code is applicable to Promoters, Member of 
Promoter’s Group, all Directors and Designated Persons 
as defined in the Code. The Company Secretary is the 
Compliance Officer for monitoring adherence to the said 
SEBI PIT Regulations. The Code is suitably amended, from 
time to time to incorporate the amendments carried out by 
SEBI to SEBI PIT Regulations.
	
The Company has put in place adequate and effective 
system of internal controls to ensure compliance with 
the requirements of the SEBI PIT Regulations. The 
Company has already implemented an online module for 
enabling the Promoters, Promoter’s Group, Directors and 
Designated Persons to submit their Disclosures and take 
requisite approvals under the PIT Regulations. This online 
module also facilitates updating of their shareholding in 
the Company as well as details of their immediate relatives 
and the persons with whom they share material financial 
relationship in a seamless manner.
	
The Audit Committee reviews cases of non-compliances, if 
any and makes necessary recommendations to the Board 
w.r.t. action taken against such defaulters. The said non-
compliances are promptly intimated to Stock Exchanges 
in the prescribed format and penalty, if any, is being 
recovered and deposited with SEBI’s Investor Protection 
and Education Fund.
	
The Company has also formulated a Policy for 
determination of ‘legitimate purposes’ as a part of the 
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
UPSI as per the requirements of the SEBI PIT Regulations. 
The Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer for 
ensuring implementation of the code for fair disclosure and 
conduct. The Board and designated persons have affirmed 
compliance with the Code. This Code is displayed on the 
Company’s website at: www.raymondlifestyle.com.
VII.	 SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
	
The minutes of the Board Meetings of the subsidiary 
companies are shared with the Board of Directors on a 
quarterly basis. The financial statements of the subsidiary 
companies are presented to the Audit Committee.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has formulated 
a Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries which is in 
line with the Listing Regulations as amended. The said 
policy was amended w.e.f January 30, 2025 and has been 
uploaded on the website of the Company viz., https://
raymondlifestyle.com/uploads/Material-Subsidiary-
Policy2.pdf. For the financial year 2024-25, the Company 
did not have any material subsidiary as per the thresholds 
laid down under the Listing Regulations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
178
AFFIRMATIONS AND DISCLOSURES
a.	
Related Party Transactions
	
In line with the requirements under Regulation 23(1) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated 
a Policy on Related Party Transactions (“Policy”) which 
is also available on Company’s website at https://
raymondlifestyle.com/disclosures/code_of_conduct.
	
The objective of the Policy is to ensure proper approval, 
disclosure and reporting of transactions as applicable, 
between the Company or its subsidiary and any of its 
related parties.
	
The Audit Committee of the Company grants omnibus 
approval for the Related Party Transactions (RPTs) which are 
of repetitive nature and / or entered in the Ordinary Course 
of Business and are at Arm’s Length. All transactions 
entered into by the Company with the Related Parties as 
defined under the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations during the financial year were on arm’s 
length basis and were in compliance with the requirements 
of provisions of Section 188 of the Act.
	
There were no material significant transaction(s) entered 
with Related Parties during the year under review. Related 
party transactions are disclosed under significant 
accounting policies and notes forming part of the Financial 
Statements in accordance with Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party 
Disclosures’. A statement in summary form of transactions 
with Related Parties is periodically placed before the Audit 
Committee and the Board for review/ approval / noting on 
quarterly basis. The said statements are also reviewed and 
certified by an independent Chartered Accountant Firm 
and placed before the Audit Committee and Board for 
noting.
	
None of the transactions with Related Parties were 
in conflict with the interest of the Company. All the 
transactions are carried out on an arm’s length or fair value 
basis.
b.	
Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties 
and strictures imposed on the Company by Stock 
Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any 
matter related to capital markets, during last three 
Financial Years
	
During the year under review, BSE Limited and the National 
Stock Exchange of India imposed fine on the Company 
amounting ₹ 10,000/- each for non-compliance of 
the provisions specified under Regulation 17(1A) w.r.t. 
appointment or continuation of Non-Executive Director 
who has attained the age of seventy-five years. Further, 
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission 
(MPERC), in a Suo Moto Petition No. 45 of 2024, vide order 
dated October 10, 2024 has directed payment of ₹ 45,000/- 
(Rupees Forty-Five Thousand only) by the Company as 
penalty for the failure to comply with the RPO targets for 
the period from 2010-11 onwards. The Company has paid 
the aforesaid penalties.
	
The Company has complied with all other requirements 
specified under the SEBI Listing Regulations as well as 
other regulations, circulars and guidelines issued by the 
SEBI. There were no strictures or penalties imposed other 
than specified above by either SEBI or Stock Exchanges or 
MCA or any other regulatory/ statutory authority for non-
compliance of any matter related to the capital markets 
during the last three financial years.
c.	
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy
	
Pursuant to Section 177(9) and (10) of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Company has formulated Whistle Blower Policy for vigil 
mechanism of Directors and employees to report concern 
about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or 
violation of Company’s code of conduct and ethics. The 
Whistle Blower Policy was formulated by the Board w.e.f 
July 17, 2024, based on the recommendations of the 
Audit Committee to make it more transparent for handling 
of whistle blower complaints by third party independent 
professional agency with dedicated helpline, formation of 
Ethics Committee and nomination of Chief Ethics Officer. 
The mechanism provides for adequate safeguards against 
victimization of employees and Directors who use such 
mechanism and makes provision for direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases.
	
To further strengthen the same, the Company has 
announced the launch of the Whistle-Blower Hotline which 
is a third-party service managed by KPMG International 
Limited. This Hotline provides a simple and easy to use 
anonymous employee hotline service that will facilitate 
reporting any violations of Company’s Code of Conduct 
and Ethics or behaviors that are not in line with professional 
standards.
	
None of the personnel of the Company have been denied 
access to the Audit Committee. The Whistle Blower 
Policy is displayed on the Company’s website at: https://
raymondlifestyle.com/disclosures/code_of_conduct.
d.	
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and 
hedging activities
	
The Company has managed the foreign exchange risk 
arising from foreign currency transactions, with appropriate 
hedging activities in accordance with policies of the 
Company. The aim of the Company’s approach to manage 
currency risk is to leave the Company with no material 
residual risk. The Company uses forward exchange 
contracts to hedge against its foreign currency exposure 
relating to firm commitment. The Company is exposed to 
the risk of price fluctuations of its key raw materials, dyes 
and chemicals, etc. The Company manages its commodity 
price risk by maintaining adequate inventory of such raw 
materials, dyes and chemicals as per the policies of the 
Company. Accordingly, there is no disclosure to offer in 
terms of SEBI circular dated November 15, 2018.
e.	
Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential 
allotment 
or 
qualified 
institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
raised any funds either through preferential allotment or 
qualified institutions placement therefore disclosure of 
this information is not applicable to the Company.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
179
f.	
A certificate from a Company Secretary in practice 
that none of the directors on the board of the Company 
have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as directors of companies by 
the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such 
statutory authority
	
The certificate issued by M/s. DM & Associates Practicing 
Company Secretaries is annexed herewith as a part of the 
Report.
g.	
Where 
the 
Board 
had 
not 
accepted 
any 
recommendation of any committee of the Board, 
which is mandatorily required, in the relevant 
Financial Year
	
During the year under review, all recommendations made 
by the Committee(s) of the Board which were mandatorily 
required have been accepted by the Board.
h.	
Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity 
and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the 
statutory auditors and all entities in the network firm/
network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part
	
Details relating to fees paid to the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company are given in Note No.33B to the Standalone 
Financial Statements and Note No. 32 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
i.	
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013
	
The details of number of complaints filed, disposed of 
during the year and pending as on March 31, 2025 are given 
in the Directors’ report.
j.	
Compliances with Governance Framework
	
The Company is in compliance with all mandatory 
requirements under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
k.	
Disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries of 
‘Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are interested by name 
and amount
	
Details are given in Note No.43 to the Standalone Financial 
Statements and Note No. 38 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
l.	
Details of material subsidiary of the listed entity; 
including the date and place of incorporation and 
the name and date of appointment of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiary
	
NIL.
m.	 Non-mandatory requirements
	
Adoption of non-mandatory requirements of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations is reviewed by the Board from time-to-
time. The status of compliance with the non-mandatory 
requirements of the Listing Regulations is provided below:
	
The Board
	
The requirement relating to maintenance of office and 
reimbursement of expenses of Non-Executive Chairman is 
not applicable to the Company since the Chairman of the 
Company is an Executive Director.
	
Shareholders Rights
	
The quarterly financial results are published in the 
newspapers of wide circulation and not sent to individual 
shareholders. Quarterly Financial Results as approved 
by the Board are disseminated to Stock Exchanges and 
updated on the website of the Company.
	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report
	
During the year under review, the Auditors have expressed 
an unmodified opinion on the Financial Statements. The 
Company continues to adopt best practices to ensure 
regime of financial statements with un-modified opinion.
	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 138 of the 
Act, the Company has appointed an Internal Auditor who 
reports to the Audit Committee. Internal Auditor directly 
presents their Quarterly internal audit report to the Audit 
Committee for its consideration.
n.	
Disclosure of Compliance with Corporate Governance 
Requirements specified in Regulation 17 to 27 and 
Regulation 46(2) of the Listing Regulations
	
The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
corporate governance requirements under the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Company confirms compliance 
with corporate governance requirements specified in 
Regulation 17 to 27 and sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
o.	
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) certification
	
As required by SEBI Listing Regulations, the CEO and CFO 
certification on the Financial Statements, the Cash Flow 
Statement and the Internal Control Systems for financial 
reporting for FY 2024–25 is enclosed to this Report.
p.	
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment
	
In the preparation of the financial statements, the Company 
has followed Indian Accounting Standards referred to in 
Section 133 of the Act. The significant accounting policies 
which are consistently applied are set out in the Notes to 
the Financial Statements.
q.	
Risk Management
	
Business risk evaluation and Management is an ongoing 
process within the Company. The assessment is 
periodically examined by the Risk Management Committee 
and Board.
r.	
Credit Rating
	
As on March 31, 2025, CRISIL has given the credit rating of 
AA/Stable for Long-Term Borrowing and A1+ for Short Term 
Borrowing. CARE has given the credit rating of AA;Stable for 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
180
Long term borrowing/Non-Convertible Debentures Rating 
and A1+ for Short Term Borrowing / Commercial Paper. 
The credit rating is displayed on the Company’s website at: 
www.raymondlifestyle.com.
s.	
Disclosure of certain type of agreements binding on 
the Company
	
There are no agreements impacting management or 
control of the Company or imposing any restriction or 
create any liability upon the Company.
t.	
Disclosure with respect to demat suspense account/ 
unclaimed suspense account
	
Pursuant 
to 
Composite 
Scheme 
of 
Arrangement 
between Raymond Limited (‘RL’) and the Company, the 
shareholders of RL whose shares where underlying in 
Unclaimed Suspense Account were not allotted the shares 
of the Company rather their shares were transferred to the 
Company’s Unclaimed Suspense Account and as per 
Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the details of the shares in the Suspense 
Account are as follows:
Aggregate Number of 
Shareholders and the 
Outstanding Shares in 
the suspense account 
lying at the beginning of 
the year
Number of 
shareholders who 
approached the 
Company for transfer of 
shares from suspense 
account during the year
Number of 
shareholders to 
whom shares were 
transferred from 
suspense account 
during the year
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in 
the suspense account 
lying at the end of the 
year
That the voting rights 
on these shares shall 
remain frozen till the 
rightful owner of such 
shares claims the 
shares
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
357 number of 
Shareholders and 
11,980 Equity Shares
NIL
NIL
357 number of 
Shareholders and 
11,980 Equity Shares
11980
	
	 Note: During the year under review, other than aforesaid no Shares were credited by the Company to the said demat suspense 
account.
For Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Place: Mumbai 	
 Gautam Hari Singhania
Date: May 12, 2025	
 Executive Chairman
Declaration
Compliance with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
As provided under Regulation 26 (3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, all Board 
Members and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed annual compliance with Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of the 
Raymond Lifestyle’s Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025.
For Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Place: Mumbai 	
 Gautam Hari Singhania
Date: May 12, 2025	
 Executive Chairman
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
181
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members of
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
Plot G-35 & 36 MIDC,
Waluj Taluka, Gangapur,
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar– 431136, Maharashtra
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited having CIN: L74999MH2018PLC316288 and having its Registered Office at Plot G-35 & 36 MIDC, Waluj Taluka, Gangapur, 
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar– 431136, Maharashtra, India (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the 
Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 
10(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Director’s Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2025 
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
SR NO
NAME OF DIRECTOR
DIN
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1
MR. GAUTAMHARI VIJAYPAT SINGHANIA
00020088
07/09/2020
2
MR. MAHENDRA VASANTRAI DOSHI
00123243
07/09/2020
3
MR. KUMMAMURI NARASIMHA MURTHY
00023046
27/03/2024
4
MR. DINESH KUMAR LAL
00037142
09/07/2024
5
MR. GIRISH CHANDRA CHATURVEDI
00110996
09/07/2024
6
MR. VENEET NAYAR
02007846
09/07/2024
7
MRS. ANISHA MOTWANI
06943493
09/07/2024
8
MR. RAJIV SHARMA
10748015
24/08/2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
Signature:
 Name: Dinesh Kumar Deora- Partner
 Firm Name : DM & Associates Company Secretaries LLP
 Firm Registration Number: L2017MH003500
 Membership No.: FCS 5683
 CP No.: 4119
Place: Mumbai 	
UDIN: F005683G000322571
Date : 12-05-2025 	
P.R. Certificate No.: 6584/2025
ANNEXURE TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
182
CEO/CFO Certification / Certification with respect to Financial Statements:
We, the undersigned, in our respective capacities as Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
(“the Company”) to the best of our knowledge and belief certify that:
a)	
We have reviewed financial statements (both Standalone and Consolidated) including the cash flows and statement of change 
in equity for the year ended March 31, 2025 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might be 
misleading;
(ii)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting 
standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b)	
We further state that to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions are entered into by the Company during the year, 
which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
c)	
We are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls over financial reporting and that we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of internal control systems pertaining to financial reporting of the Company and have disclosed to the Auditors 
and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps 
we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d) We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
(i)	
significant changes, if any, in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
(ii)	
significant changes, if any, in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements; and
(iii)	
instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or an 
employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
For Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Gautam Hari Singhania
Executive Chairman
For Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Sameer Shah
Chief Financial Officer
Date: May 12, 2025
Place: Mumbai	
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
183
Certificate Of Compliance With The Corporate Governance 
Requirements:
To,
The Members of
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Plot G-35 & 36 MIDC
Waluj Taluka, Gangapur,
Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar– 431136
We have examined the compliance of conditions of corporate governance by Raymond Lifestyle Limited (“the Company”) for the 
year ended March 31, 2025, as prescribed in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and Para 
C, D and E of Schedule V to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’).
Management’s Responsibility:
The Compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management.
Auditors’ Responsibility:
Our examination was limited to a review of procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance 
with the conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
Conclusion:
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the examination of relevant records and the explanations given to 
us, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the aforesaid provisions 
of SEBI Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For DM & Associates Company Secretaries LLP
Company Secretaries
ICSI Unique Code L2017MH003500
Dinesh Kumar Deora
Partner
FCS NO 5683
CP NO 4119
UDIN: F005683G000322604
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 12, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
184
Standalone
Financial
Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Opinion
1. 
We have audited the accompanying standalone finan­
cial statements of Raymond Lifestyle Limited (the 
‘Company’), which comprise the Standalone Balance 
Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the Standalone Statement 
of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive In­
come), the Standalone Statement of Cash Flow and the 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity for the year 
then ended, and notes to the standalone financial state­
ments, including material accounting policy information 
and other explanatory information.
2. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the afore­
said standalone financial statements give the informa­
tion required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind 
AS’) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
(as amended) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company 
as at 31 March 2025, and its profit (including other com­
prehensive income – gain), its cash flows and the chang­
es in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Stan­
dards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those standards are 
further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Company in ac­
cordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the standalone financial statements under the provi­
sions of the Act and the rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics issued 
by the ICAI. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter – Demerger of lifestyle business un­
dertaking
4. 
We draw attention to note 53 to the accompanying 
Statement, which states that the scheme of arrange­
ment (the ‘Scheme’) between Raymond Limited (‘De­
merged Company’), Raymond Lifestyle Limited (for­
merly known as ‘Raymond Consumer Care Limited’) 
(the ‘Company’), Ray Global Consumer Trading Limit­
ed (‘Transferor Company’) and their respective share­
holders has been given effect based on the appoint­
ed date of 01 April 2023, as approved by the Hon’ble 
National Company Law Tribunal which is deemed to 
be the acquisition date for the purpose of account­
ing under Ind AS 103 “Business Combinations” (‘Ind 
AS 103’). Consequently, financial information as at 
and for the year ended 31 March 2024 included in the 
accompanying standalone financial statements has 
been restated. Our opinion is not modified in respect 
of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
5.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our profes­
sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit 
of the standalone financial statements of the current pe­
riod. These matters were addressed in the context of our 
audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not pro­
vide a separate opinion on these matters.
6. 
We have determined the matters described below to be 
the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matters
Revenue recognition
Refer notes 1(B)(r) and 25 to the standalone financial statements 
for the material accounting policy information on revenue 
recognition and details of revenue recognised during the year 
respectively.
The Company’s revenue is primarily derived from sale of goods 
(apparel and textile) that are sold through various distribution 
channels. The Company and its external stakeholders focus on 
revenue as a key performance metric.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised in accordance with 
Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, at a point 
in time when control of goods is transferred to the customer and 
there are no longer any unfulfilled performance obligations. This 
typically occurs at the time of dispatch, delivery or upon formal 
customer acceptance depending on customer terms which may 
vary for each customer.
Further, the Company operates various incentive schemes for 
its retailers and distributors which are generally based on sales 
volume achieved within a stipulated period. Estimating accruals 
towards such incentives involves management judgement 
regarding sales likely to be achieved by each retailer/ distributor.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
• Assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s revenue 
recognition accounting policies, including those relating to 
incentives and sales returns, in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards;
• Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of internal financial controls including general and specific 
application information technology controls around revenue 
recognition, incentive accruals and provision for sales return;
• Selected a sample of key customer contracts and incentive 
schemes to understand performance obligation;
• Performed substantive testing on selected samples in 
respect to revenue transactions recorded during the year 
and transactions recorded during specific periods before 
and after year-end by inspecting supporting documents such 
as customer acceptances, invoices, shipping documents, 
proofs of dispatch, delivery, etc. to ensure the accuracy and 
completeness of revenue recorded for such transactions in the 
correct period;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
186
The Company also makes provisions for sales returns based on 
historic trends and assessment of market conditions.
Considering the materiality of amounts involved, significant 
management judgements and estimates involved in estimating 
the accrual for incentives and sales return provisions and auditor 
efforts involved in evaluating contracts with distinct commercial 
and delivery terms determining the timing of transfer of control, 
revenue recognition is considered to be a key audit matter for the 
current year audit.
• Tested samples of credit notes issued during the year and 
subsequent to year end, to confirm appropriateness of revenue 
recognised during the current year;
• For contracts involving variable consideration, we examined 
the terms and conditions pertaining to incentives from the 
underlying scheme documents. Further, we discussed and 
obtained an understanding from the management of the key 
assumptions applied and inputs used in estimating provisions 
for incentives as well as sales returns and compared the 
provisions made by the management with past trends and our 
understanding of prevailing market conditions;
• Performed substantive analytical procedures such as 
customer-wise variance analysis and product-wise analysis to 
identify any unusual trends and/or material variances;
• Tested a sample of manual journal entries posted to revenue 
ledgers to identify any unusual items; and
• Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures 
included in the standalone financial statements, in accordance 
with the requirements of applicable financial reporting 
framework.
Accounting for business combination and impairment 
assessment of intangibles with indefinite useful life:
Refer note 1(B)(e) and 1(D) for Company’s material accounting 
policy information and notes 53 and 4 for details of business 
combination and impairment assessment related disclosures in 
the accompanying standalone financial statements.
During the current year, the Company acquired the lifestyle 
business undertaking of Raymond Limited on a going concern 
basis, pursuant to composite scheme of arrangement of demerger 
(the ‘Scheme’) with appointed date as 01 April 2023, effective from 
30 June 2024 being the date of filing of certified order of National 
Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) with Registrar of Companies 
(‘ROC’).
The accounting of this transaction has been done in accordance 
with Ind AS 103, as on the appointed date, which required 
recognition of assets being acquired and liabilities assumed, 
including identifiable intangible assets to be recognised at their 
fair value on the date of acquisition. As a result of this acquisition, 
the management has also recognised a capital reserve as at 
appointed date and has restated its comparative financial 
information.
The management had appointed an external valuation expert to 
allocate the purchase consideration, to the acquired assets and 
liabilities including identified intangible assets as per the fair 
values determined using various valuation models, which involved 
significant management estimates and judgements including the 
model used, growth rate of the businesses acquired, discount 
rates etc., which involve high inherent estimation uncertainty.
Further, as part of annual impairment testing, as at reporting 
date, management has engaged independent valuation experts 
to perform impairment assessment of intangible assets with 
indefinite useful life which were acquired as a result of this 
business combination. The value in use has been ascertained as 
recoverable value of such intangible assets which is, based on 
comparable companies’ methodology, in accordance with Ind AS 
36 “Impairment of Assets” (‘Ind AS 36’). This involved significant 
estimates and judgments by the management in relation to 
discount rate, cost of disposal etc.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
For accounting for business combination
• Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of the Company’s controls over accounting of business 
combination which includes valuation of acquired assets and 
liabilities, including identifiable intangible assets;
• Assessed the appropriateness of the accounting policy 
adopted by the management in terms of the requirements of 
Ind AS 103;
• Obtained the Scheme and related acquisition documents 
to gain an understanding of assets and liabilities acquired, 
the consideration transferred and to evaluate management’s 
judgement applied in determination of control and acquisition 
date, in accordance with Ind AS 103;
• Obtained management’s external valuation expert’s report on 
purchase price allocation of assets and liabilities acquired 
including valuation of intangible assets and assessed the 
competence, capability, and objectivity of such management 
expert;
• Involved auditor’s valuation experts to assist us in validating 
the key valuation assumptions and methodology considered 
by the management’s expert to allocate the purchase price to 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed including identified 
intangible assets;
• Tested the arithmetic accuracy of the computation of capital 
reserve; and
• Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures 
given in the standalone financial statements, including 
disclosure of significant assumptions and judgements used 
by management, in accordance with applicable financial 
reporting framework.
For impairment assessment of intangible assets with indefinite 
useful life
• Obtained an understanding of the management process for 
annual impairment assessment of such intangible assets and 
assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s accounting 
policy for impairment of non-financial assets in accordance 
with Ind AS 36;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
187
Accordingly, we have considered the above business combination 
to be a matter of most significance to our current year audit 
considering the materiality of the amounts involved, significant 
complex judgements and estimates involved in purchase price 
allocation, accounting as per the requirements of Ind AS 103, 
including ‘control’ assessment, identification and measurement of 
intangible assets. Further, as stated above, significant judgments 
and estimates were also involved in annual impairment testing 
of acquired intangible assets with indefinite useful life which are 
inherently subjective. Therefore, we have identified these matters 
as key audit matters for the current year audit.
The above matter with respect to accounting of business 
combination with effect from appointed date is also considered 
fundamental to the understanding of the users of the 
accompanying standalone financial statements.
• Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of 
the Company’s controls over the impairment assessment of 
intangibles with indefinite life and estimating its recoverable 
amount;
• Obtained management’s external valuation specialist’s report 
and assessed the competence, capability, and objectivity of 
such management’s expert;
• Involved auditor’s valuation experts to assist in evaluating the 
appropriateness of the valuation methodology used and the 
reasonableness of the assumptions used by the management’s 
expert to calculate the recoverable amount;
• Evaluated and challenged management’s assumptions used 
in the impairment assessment, particularly those related 
to discount rate and cost of disposal etc., based on our 
understanding of the business, past results, approved business 
plans and external factors;
• Evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management 
for reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions, used 
in estimating the recoverable amount to determine and to 
assesses the estimation uncertainties i.e, whether reasonable 
changes in these key assumptions would result in the carrying 
amounts to exceed the recoverable amounts;
• Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures 
given in the standalone financial statements, including 
disclosure of significant assumptions and judgements used 
by management, in accordance with applicable financial 
reporting framework.
Cybersecurity 
incident 
related 
to 
financial 
reporting 
Information Technology (IT) systems
Refer note 50 to the accompanying standalone financial 
statements for disclosure with respect to the cybersecurity 
incident.
During the current year, the Company had identified a ransomware 
attack within its IT network that affected its financial reporting 
IT systems and operations and caused a temporary interruption 
of system operations from 11 February 2025 to 16 February 
2025. The Company is significantly dependent on its financial 
reporting IT systems for processing information and financial data 
that support the overall preparation of the standalone financial 
statements.
In response, management promptly initiated containment, 
evaluation, restoration, and remediation measures, with the 
assistance of external cybersecurity and IT specialists including 
implementation of necessary alternate controls and manual 
reconstruction of financial data for the interrupted period.
Following the completion of the aforesaid remediation activities, 
the Company has assessed and concluded that the incident 
did not impact the accuracy and completeness of the financial 
information.
This incident necessitated significant auditors’ effort, including 
involvement of professionals with expertise in cyber incident 
response and IT, and significant auditors’ professional judgements 
were involved in designing the audit procedures and evaluating the 
management’s response on potential extent and consequences of 
the cybersecurity incident on the Company’s financial reporting 
IT environment and controls and manual data reconstruction 
approach adopted by the management. Accordingly, we have 
identified the cybersecurity incident as a key audit matter for the 
current year audit.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
• Assessed the impact of the cybersecurity incident on the 
Company’s financial reporting IT environment, including data 
security, and the effectiveness of internal financial controls;
• Obtained and reviewed the reports of the external IT 
consultants, engaged by management to understand the cause 
of the incident and its impact on Company’s IT infrastructure, 
including financial systems;
With the assistance of auditor’s IT and cyber incident response 
specialists, we evaluated the actions taken by the management 
in response to the cybersecurity incident, performed 
procedures to evaluate management’s conclusions on the 
extent of impact of the incident on the Company’s internal 
control environment, financial reporting IT systems, measures 
taken for restoration of data and improvements made to the IT 
security control environment;
• Assessed management’s evaluation and conclusions with 
respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations 
and also inquired with Company’s internal IT and compliance 
teams to corroborate management’s assessment;
• With the assistance of auditor’s IT specialists, we tested 
Company’s IT general controls and IT automated controls for 
undisrupted periods;
• With respect to the manual data reconstruction approach 
adopted by the management, we performed the following 
procedures, amongst others, to ensure the completeness and 
accuracy of data restored:
 Obtained an understanding of process followed by the 
management in consultation with management’s cyber and IT 
specialists for manual reconstruction of data and performed 
walkthrough of such process;
 For the period of data loss where manual controls were 
implemented by the management and data was restored from 
alternative backups, performed reconciliations and tested 
additional samples on test check basis for ascertaining the 
accuracy and completeness of transactions in such period, 
with support of IT specialist as required.
• We assessed whether the disclosures made by management 
in the standalone financial statements are appropriate and 
adequate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
188
Write down of inventories to net realisable value
Refer note 1(C)(ii) to the accompanying standalone financial 
statements for material accounting policy information on 
inventories and note 9 for details of inventories as at 31 March 
2025. As at 31 March 2025, the Company held inventories of 
Rs. 136,421 lakhs (after considering provision for slow moving/ 
non-moving inventories of ₹ 13,545 Lakhs), which represents a 
significant portion of total assets of the Company. In accordance 
with Ind AS 2 “Inventories” (‘Ind AS 2’), inventories are carried at 
lower of cost or net realisable value (‘NRV’).
The Company maintains inventory levels based on forecasted 
demand and expected future selling prices. Given that the 
Company operates in a fast-changing fashion market where there 
is a risk of inventory falling out of fashion and proving difficult to 
be sold above cost, accordingly there is a risk of inventories being 
measured at values which are not representative of the lower of 
costs and NRV.
Management estimates provision for slow-moving/ non-moving 
inventories for different product categories basis their assessment 
of current and expected future trends, ageing of such inventory 
and historical experience in liquidating aged inventory.
Owing to the significance of carrying amount of inventories and 
significant management judgements and estimates involved in 
assessing future market and economic conditions and trends 
while assessing provision for slow-moving/non-moving inventory, 
we have considered this matter as key audit matter for the current 
year audit.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
• 
Understood 
the 
management’s 
process 
and 
methodology of identifying slow-moving/non-moving inventories 
and NRV assessment and assessed the appropriateness of 
Company’s accounting policy for provision for inventories in 
accordance with Ind AS 2;
• 
Evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of internal financial controls relating to inventory 
provisioning as per Ind AS.
• 
Evaluated the management’s assessment for estimating 
NRV by comparing carrying value of such inventories with 
subsequent and recent selling prices on a sample basis.
• 
Evaluated the reasonableness of assumptions and 
estimates used by the management while determining provision 
for slow moving inventories including age of the inventory product, 
historical experience, current trend and future expectations based 
on our understanding of the business;
• 
Tested the ageing report on sample basis and performed 
procedures to ensure its completeness and accuracy of such 
report.
• 
Attended the physical inventory count performed by 
the management near to the year end and as at reporting date to 
observe the existence and physical condition of inventory.
• 
Performed substantive analytical procedures such 
as ageing analysis, NRV testing etc. for reasonableness of 
provisioning towards inventories.
• 
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures included in the standalone financial statements, 
in accordance with the requirements of applicable financial 
reporting framework.
Information other than the Standalone Financial State­
ments and Auditor’s Report thereon
7. 
The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for 
the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Annual Report but does 
not include the standalone financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected 
to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s 
report.
 
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we will not ex­
press any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
 
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other infor­
mation identified above when it becomes available and, 
in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the standalone financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
 
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required 
to communicate the matter to those charged with gover­
nance.
	
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Standalone Financial State­
ments
8. 
The accompanying standalone financial statements 
have been approved by the Company’s Board of Direc­
tors. The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible 
for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with 
respect to the preparation and presentation of these 
standalone financial statements that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position, financial performance in­
cluding other comprehensive income, changes in equity 
and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the 
Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India. This 
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Compa­
ny and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implemen­
tation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the finan­
cial statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or er­
ror.
9. 
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Com­
pany’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclos­
ing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Com­
pany or to cease operations, or has no realistic alterna­
tive but to do so.
10. The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing 
the Company’s financial reporting process.
	
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Stand­
alone Financial Statements
11. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that in­
cludes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level 
of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit con­
ducted in accordance with Standards on Auditing will 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
189
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are con­
sidered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the econom­
ic decisions of users taken on the basis of these stand­
alone financial statements.
12. As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Au­
diting, specified under section 143(10) of the Act, we ex­
ercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstate­
ment of the standalone financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform 
audit procedures responsive to those risks, and ob­
tain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropri­
ate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control;
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control rele­
vant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Compa­
ny has adequate internal financial controls with ref­
erence to standalone financial statements in place 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting poli­
cies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by man­
agement;
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of Direc­
tors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, wheth­
er a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the standalone 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are in­
adequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern; and
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the standalone financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the stand­
alone financial statements represent the under­
lying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
13.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, includ­
ing any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.
14. We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to commu­
nicate with them all relationships and other matters 
that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indepen­
dence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
15.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the standalone finan­
cial statements of the current period and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes pub­
lic disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expect­
ed to outweigh the public interest benefits of such com­
munication.
Other matter
16. The special purpose financial information of demerged 
lifestyle business of Raymond Limited for the year ended 
31 March 2024 and forming part of comparative stand­
alone financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 31 March 2024, as included in the accompanying 
standalone financial statements, was audited by oth­
er auditors, Ashok T. Khedekar, Chartered Accountant, 
who have expressed an unmodified opinion on those 
special purpose financial information vide their audit re­
port dated 24 October 2024. Our opinion is not modified 
in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
17. As required by section 197(16) of the Act, based on our 
audit, we report that the Company has paid remunera­
tion to its directors during the year in accordance with 
the provisions of and limits laid down under section 197 
read with Schedule V to the Act.
18. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (the ‘Order’) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
Annexure – I, a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
19. Further to our comments in Annexure – I, as required by 
section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit, we report, 
to the extent applicable, that:
a) 
We have sought and obtained all the information and ex­
planations which to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were necessary for the purpose of our audit of the ac­
companying standalone financial statements;
b) 
Except for the matters stated in paragraph 19(h)(vi) be­
low on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our 
opinion, proper books of account as required by law re­
lating to preparation of the aforesaid standalone finan­
cial statements have been kept so far as it appears from 
our examination of those books. Further, the back-up 
of the books of account and other books and papers of 
the Company maintained in electronic mode has been 
maintained on servers physically located in India, on a 
daily basis, except during the period of cybersecurity in­
cident as further explained in note 50 to the accompany­
ing standalone financial statements;
c) 
The standalone financial statements dealt with by this 
report are in agreement with the books of account;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
190
d) 
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial state­
ments comply with Ind AS specified under section 133 of 
the Act;
e) 
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors and taken on record by the Board of 
Directors of the Company, none of the directors is dis­
qualified as on 31 March 2025 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act;
f) 
The reservation relating to the maintenance of accounts 
and other matters connected therewith are as stated in 
paragraph 19(b) above on reporting under section 143(3)
(b) of the Act and paragraph 19(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended);
g) 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial state­
ments of the Company as on 31 March 2025 and the op­
erating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our sepa­
rate report in Annexure – II, wherein we have expressed 
an unmodified opinion; and
h) 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the 
Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 11 of the Com­
panies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), 
in our opinion and to the best of our information and ac­
cording to the explanations given to us:
 
i. 
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations on its financial position as at 31 March 2025;
 
ii. 
The Company did not have any long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts for which there were any 
material foreseeable losses as at 31 March 2025;
 
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, re­
quired to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company during the year ended 
31 March 2025;
a. 
The management has represented that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in note 56(e) to the 
standalone financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or securities premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any persons or 
entities, including foreign entities (the ‘intermediaries’), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the intermediary shall, whether, direct­
ly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (the ‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries;
b. 
The management has represented that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in note 56(e) to the 
standalone financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any persons or entities, 
including foreign entities (the ‘Funding Parties’), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or oth­
erwise, that the Company shall, whether directly or in­
directly, lend or invest in other persons or entities iden­
tified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed as consid­
ered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstanc­
es, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any material mis­
statement.
 
v. The final dividend paid by the Company, pursuant to 
the Scheme as referred in note 53 to the accompanying 
standalone financial statements, during the year ended 
31 March 2025 in respect of such dividend declared for 
the previous year is in accordance with section 123 of 
the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
 
vi. As stated in note 51 to the standalone financial state­
ments and based on our examination which included 
test checks, except for instance mentioned below, the 
Company in respect of financial year commencing on 1 
April 2024, has used accounting software for maintain­
ing its books of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has been oper­
ated throughout the year for all relevant transactions re­
corded in the software. Further, during the course of our 
audit, we did not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with other than the consequen­
tial impact of the exception given below. Furthermore, 
other than the consequential impact of the exceptions 
below, the audit trail has been preserved by the Compa­
ny as per the statutory requirements for record retention 
where such feature was enabled.
Nature of exception noted
Details of exception
Instances of accounting software for maintaining books of ac­
count for which the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facil­
ity was not operated throughout the year for all relevant transac­
tions recorded in the software
The audit trail feature was not enabled at the database level for 
accounting software to log any direct data changes, used for 
maintenance of all accounting records by the Company
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Partner
Membership No.: 106815
UDIN: 25106815BMJIFL2423
Place: Mumbai
Date: 12 May 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
191
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and 
given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit, and to the best 
of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
(i) 
(a) (A) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative de­
tails and situation of property, plant and equipment, 
capital work-in-progress, investment property and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets.
(B)  The Company has maintained proper records show­
ing full particulars of intangible assets.
(b) The Company has a regular programme of physical 
verification of its property, plant and equipment, 
capital work-in-progress, investment property and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets under which 
the assets are physically verified in a phased manner 
over a period of three years, which in our opinion, is 
reasonable having regard to the size of the Company 
and the nature of its assets. In accordance with this 
programme, certain property, plant and equipment, 
capital work-in-progress, investment property and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets were verified 
during the year and no material discrepancies were 
noticed on such verification.
(c) 
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (in­
cluding investment properties) held by the Compa­
ny (other than properties where the Company is the 
lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed 
in favour of the lessee), disclosed in note 38 to the 
standalone financial statements, are held in the 
name of the Company except for the properties for 
which the Company’s management is in the process 
of getting the registration in the name of the Compa­
ny as disclosed in note 2(a)(iii) of the standalone fi­
nancial statements.
(d)  The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and 
Equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangi­
ble assets during the year.
(e) 
 No proceedings have been initiated or are pending 
against the Company for holding any benami proper­
ty under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transac­
tions Act, 1988 (as amended) and rules made there­
under.
(ii)  (a) The management has conducted a physical verifi­
cation of inventory at reasonable intervals during the 
year. In our opinion, the coverage and procedure of 
such verification by the management is appropriate 
and no discrepancies of 10% or more in the aggregate 
for each class of inventory were noticed as compared 
to book records.
(b) )  As disclosed in note 20 to the standalone financial state­
ments, the Company has been sanctioned a working 
capital limit in excess of Rs 5 crores by banks based on 
the security of current assets. The quarterly statements, 
in respect of the working capital limits have been filed by 
the Company with such banks and such statements are 
in agreement with the books of account of the Company 
for the respective periods which were not subject to au­
dit.
(iii) (a) The Company has made investments in various 
mutual fund schemes, debentures and commercial 
papers, during the year. The Company has provided 
loans to its subsidiaries during the year as per details 
given below:
 (₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Loans
Aggregate amount granted during the 
year:
-	
Subsidiaries
 10,000
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet 
date in respect of above cases:
-	
Subsidiaries
5,000
 
The Company did not provide any guarantee or secu­
rity during the year.
(b) In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the investments made, 
guarantees provided, and terms and conditions of the 
grant of all loans and guarantees provided (including 
in earlier years) are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the 
interest of the Company.
(c) 
In respect of loans granted by the Company, the 
schedule of repayment of principal and payment of 
interest has been stipulated and the repayments/re­
ceipts of principal and interest are regular.
(d) There is no overdue amount in respect of loans grant­
ed to such companies as at 31 March 2025.
(e) 
The Company has granted loans which had fallen due 
during the year and were repaid on the due date. Fur­
ther, no fresh loans were granted to any party to settle 
the overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
(f) 
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in 
the nature of loans, which are repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
(iv) In our opinion, and according to the information and ex­
planations given to us, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of sections 185 and 186 of the Act in re­
spect of loans and investments made and guarantees 
and security provided by it, as applicable.
(v) 
In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not ac­
cepted any deposits or there are no amounts which 
have been deemed to be deposits within the meaning 
of sections  73 to 76 of the Act and the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(v) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
Annexure I referred to in paragraph 18 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
192
(vi) The Central Government has specified maintenance 
of cost records under sub-section (1) of section 148 
of the Act in respect of the products of the Company. 
We have broadly reviewed the books of account main­
tained by the Company pursuant to the rules made by 
the Central Government for the maintenance of cost 
records and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the 
prescribed accounts and records have been made 
and maintained. However, we have not made a de­
tailed examination of the cost records with a view to 
determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii) (a) In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, undisputed statuto­
ry dues including goods and services tax, provident 
fund, income-tax, duty of customs, cess and other 
material statutory dues, as applicable, have gener­
ally been regularly deposited with the appropriate 
authorities by the Company, though there have been 
slight delays in a few cases. Further income-tax has 
not generally been regularly deposited with the ap­
propriate authorities and there have been significant 
delays.
(b) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, there are no statutory dues referred in sub-
clause (a) which have not been deposited with the 
appropriate authorities on account of any dispute ex­
cept for the following:
Name of the Statute
Nature of Dues
Gross Amount
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount paid 
under Protest 
(₹ in lakhs)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Central Excise Act, 
1944
Excise Duty
1,714.48
 898.14
FY 1997-99, 2000-
04
Supreme Court
1,179.61
 47.46
FY 1991-1994, 1998-
04, 2010-2017
Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal
 21.63
 7.87
FY 1994-96, 1999-
00
Commissioner
The Medical & Toilet 
Preparations (Excise 
duties) Rules 1956 & 
Act, 1955
Excise Duty
 47.35
 -
FY 1994-1995 to FY 
1996-1997
Commissioner of State 
Excise
Finance Act,1994
 Service Tax
 80.44
 80.44
May to July 2017
Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal
Customs Act, 1962
Customs Duty
 23.86
 1.04
FY 2007-09
Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal
Central Sales Tax Act 
and Local Sales Tax 
Acts
Central Sales Tax 
and Local Sales 
Tax
(Including Value 
Added)
 17.57
 11.27
FY 1999-00
Supreme Court
 40.00
 40.00
FY 2011-12
High Court
 187.76
 63.11
FY 1996-97,1999-
00,2007-2013
Tribunal
 607.91
 82.84
FY 1983-84,1985-
86,1989-90,1992-
2000,2001-
2009,2014-2015, 
2016-17
Commissioner
Goods and Services 
Tax Act, 2017
GST
 5,476.27
 173.75
FY 2017-18, 2019-
20, FY 2020-21
Appellate Authority
 144.54
 13.14
FY 2017-18
Additional commissioner
 400.87
 18.82
FY 2017-18
Joint Commissioner of 
State Tax
 482.48
 -
FY 2018-19
Deputy Commissioner of 
Commercial Taxes
 1,839.08
 1,565.9
November 2017 to 
March 2019
High Court
 460.26
 23.16
FY 2018-19
Deputy commissioner of 
State Tax
 492.60
 32.31
FY 2014-15 to FY 
2019-20
Additional Commissioner
The Madhya Pradesh 
Vidyut Shulk 
Adhiniyam, 2012
Electricity Duty
 673.31
 562.96
 FY 2012-16
High Court
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
193
(viii) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no transactions were surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) which 
have not been previously recorded in the books of ac­
count.
(ix) (a) According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not defaulted in repay­
ment of its loans or borrowings or in the payment of 
interest thereon to any lender.
 (b)  According to the information and explanations giv­
en to us including representation received from the 
management of the Company, and on the basis of 
our audit procedures, we report that the Company 
has not been declared a willful defaulter by any bank 
or financial institution or government or any govern­
ment authority.
(c)  In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, money raised by way of 
term loans were applied for the purposes for which 
these were obtained.
(d)  In our opinion and according to the information and ex­
planations given to us, and on an overall examination of 
the financial statements of the Company, funds raised 
by the Company on short term basis have, prima facie, 
not been utilised for long term purposes.
 (e)  According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on an overall examination of the financial state­
ments of the Company, the Company has not taken any 
funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet 
the obligations of its subsidiaries.
 (f)  According to the information and explanations given to 
us, the Company has not raised any loans during the 
year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries.
(x) 
(a) The Company has not raised any money by way 
of initial public offer or further public offer (includ­
ing debt instruments), during the year. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not ap­
plicable to the Company.
 (b)  According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company has not made any prefer­
ential allotment or private placement of shares or (fully, 
partially or optionally) convertible debentures during the 
year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi) (a) To the best of our knowledge and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, no fraud by 
the Company or no material fraud on the Company 
has been noticed or reported during the period cov­
ered by our audit, other than the cybersecurity inci­
dent as explained in note 50 to the accompanying 
standalone financial statements, which had impact­
ed the Company’s financial reporting IT systems for 
a brief period. However, management promptly took 
steps to contain and remediate the impact of the 
incident and implemented necessary measures,  in­
cluding improvements to its cyber and data security 
systems to safeguard against such risks in the future.
 (b)  According to the information and explanations given to 
us including the representation made to us by the man­
agement of the Company, no report under sub-section 
12 of section 143 of the Act has been filed by the audi­
tors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Com­
panies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, with the Central 
Government for the period covered by our audit.
(c)  Whistle blower complaints received during the year 
were considered in the audit procedures.
(xii) The Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi 
Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, re­
porting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applica­
ble to the Company.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, all transactions entered 
into by the Company with the related parties are in 
compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the Act, 
where applicable. Further, the details of such related 
party transactions have been disclosed in the stand­
alone financial statements, as required under Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party Dis­
closures specified in Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as prescribed under section 
133 of the Act.
(xiv) (a) In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has an in­
ternal audit system which is commensurate with the 
size and nature of its business as required under the 
provisions of section 138 of the Act.
 (b)  We have considered the reports issued by the Internal 
Auditors of the Company till date for the period under 
audit.
(xv) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company has not entered into any non-
cash transactions with its directors or persons con­
nected with its directors and accordingly, reporting 
under clause 3(xv) of the Order with respect to com­
pliance with the provisions of section 192 of the Act 
are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) The Company is not required to be registered under 
section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, reporting under clauses 3(xvi) (a),(b) and 
(c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(d) Based on the information and explanations given to 
us and as represented by the management of the Com­
pany, the Group (as defined in Core Investment Compa­
nies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have any 
CIC.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the 
current financial year as well as the immediately pre­
ceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory au­
ditors during the year. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
194
(xix) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing 
and expected dates of realisation of financial as­
sets and payment of financial liabilities, other infor­
mation in the standalone financial statements, our 
knowledge of the plans of the Board of Directors and 
management and based on our examination of the 
evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has 
come to our attention, which causes us to believe 
that any material uncertainty exists as on the date 
of the audit report indicating that Company is not 
capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, 
however, state that this is not an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within 
a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the Company as and when they fall 
due.
(xx) According to the information and explanations giv­
en to us, the Company does not have any unspent 
amounts towards Corporate Social Responsibility in 
respect of any ongoing or other than ongoing project 
as at the end of the financial year. Accordingly, re­
porting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is not applica­
ble to the Company.
(xxi) 
The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is 
not applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial 
statements of the Company. Accordingly, no comment 
has been included in respect of said clause under this re­
port.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Partner
Place: Mumbai  
Membership No.: 106815
Date: 12 May 2025  
UDIN: 25106815BMJIFL2423
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
195
Annexure – II to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of 
Raymond Lifestyle Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2025
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial 
controls with reference to the standalone financial 
statements under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements of Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
(the ‘Company’) as at and for the year ended 31 March 
2025, we have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements of the 
Company as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
(‘IFC Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the ‘ICAI’). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of the Company’s business, including adherence to 
the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal 
Financial Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing issued by the ICAI prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements, and the IFC Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI. Those standards and the IFC Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements were 
established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit 
of internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements includes obtaining an understanding 
of such internal financial controls, assessing the risk that 
a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
standalone financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements include 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of 
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets 
that could have a material effect on the standalone 
financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
196
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
standalone 
financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the 
risk that the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements and such controls were 
operating effectively as at 31 March 2025, based on the 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the IFC Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Partner
Place: Mumbai 	
Membership No.: 106815
Date: 12 May 2025 	
UDIN: 25106815BMJIFL2423
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
197
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Particulars
Note
No.
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
I
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
(a) Property, plant and equipment
2A
 1,89,694 
 1,61,258 
(b) Capital work-in-progress
2B
 3,843 
 1,666 
(c) Investment properties
3
 169 
 180 
(d) Intangible assets
4A
 4,62,536 
 4,62,475 
(e) Intangible assets under development
4B
 3,464 
 2,804 
(f) Financial assets
(i) Investments in subsidiaries
5
 1,18,145 
 1,18,145 
(ii) Other investments
5A
 14,257 
 13,770 
(iii) Loans
6
 5,625 
 - 
(iv) Other financial assets
7
 11,667 
 6,386 
(g) Deferred tax assets (net)
35
 1,15,049 
 1,15,211 
(h) Current tax assets (net)
 3,091 
 10,027 
(i) Other non - current assets
8
 3,185 
 2,628 
 9,30,725 
 8,94,550 
2
Current assets
(a) Inventories
9
 1,36,421 
 1,35,101 
(b) Financial assets
(i) Investments
10
 81,294 
 75,284 
(ii) Trade receivables
11
 65,398 
 81,182 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
12
 24,435 
 4,384 
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
13
 12,694 
 5,911 
(v) Loans
14
 7,500 
 10,000 
(vi) Other financial assets
15
 4,316 
 6,237 
(c) Other current assets
16
 40,579 
 33,046 
 3,72,637 
 3,51,145 
TOTAL ASSETS
 13,03,362 
 12,45,695 
II
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
a) Equity share capital
17
 1,218 
 153 
b) Equity share capital pending allotment
53
 - 
 1,065 
c) Other equity
 9,46,569 
 9,58,545 
 9,47,788 
 9,59,764 
LIABILITIES
2
Non-current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
18
 27,952 
 20,000 
(ii) Lease liabilities
40
 87,936 
 60,760 
(b) Other non - current liabilities
19
 448 
 613 
Total non-current liabilities
 1,16,336 
 81,373 
3
Current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
20
 65,945 
 43,644 
(ii) Lease liabilities
40
 12,963 
 10,101 
(iii) Trade payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
21
 10,412 
 14,260 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,02,340 
 92,049 
(iv) Other financial liabilities
22
 33,664 
 32,074 
(b) Other current liabilities
23
 9,857 
 8,234 
(c) Provisions
24
 4,057 
 4,196 
 2,39,238 
 2,04,558 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 13,03,362 
 12,45,695 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these standalone financial statements
This is the Standalone Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date
For WALKER CHANDIOK & CO LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah
Gautam Hari Singhania
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Chairman and Managing Director
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
 Mumbai, 12 May 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
198
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these standalone financial statements
This is the Standalone Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date
For WALKER CHANDIOK & CO LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah
Gautam Hari Singhania
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Chairman and Managing Director
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Particulars
Note 
No.
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer
note 53)
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
I
INCOME
Revenue from operations
25
 4,68,128 
 5,07,359 
Other income
26
 13,112 
 16,043 
Total Income
 4,81,240 
 5,23,402 
II
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed
27
 55,270 
 73,383 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
28
 1,58,412 
 1,68,998 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
29
 (3,394)
 (10,028)
Employee benefits expense
30
 59,128 
 59,570 
Finance costs
31
 18,317 
 17,145 
Depreciation and amortization expense
32
 25,668 
 18,848 
Other expenses
(a) Manufacturing and operating costs
33 A
 52,430 
 48,929 
(b) Other expenses
33 B
 1,09,664 
 93,586 
Total Expenses
 4,75,495 
 4,70,431 
III
Profit from continuing operations before exceptional Items and tax
 5,745 
 52,971 
IV
Exceptional Items- Loss (net)
34
 6,228 
 919 
V
(Loss) / Profit from continuing operations before tax
 (483)
 52,052 
VI
Tax expense/(credit)
35
Current tax
 - 
 12,658 
Deferred tax
 (211)
 164 
Tax in respect of earlier years
 628 
 - 
VII
(Loss) / Profit for the year from continued operations
 (900)
 39,229 
VIII
Profit for the year from discontinued operations (refer note 54)
Profit before tax from discontinued operations
 - 
 2,67,217 
Tax expenses on discontinued operations
 - 
 50,697 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations (after tax)
 - 
 2,16,520 
IX
(Loss)/ Profit for the year
 (900)
 2,55,750 
X
Other Comprehensive Income ('OCI')
Continuing operations
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss - gain
Measurements of defined employee benefit plans
41
 1,485 
 388 
Income tax charge relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Measurements of defined employee benefit plans
 (374)
 (98)
Total Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax)
 1,111 
 290 
XI
Total Comprehensive Income - gain for the year
 211 
 2,56,040 
XII
Earnings per equity share of ₹ 2 each :
36
Continuing operations
Basic (₹)
 (1.48)
 64.39
Diluted (₹)
 (1.48)
 64.39
Discontinued operations (FMCG Business)
Basic (₹)
 -
 355.40
Diluted (₹)
 -
 355.40
Continuing and discontinued operations
Basic (₹)
 (1.48)
 419.79
Diluted (₹)
 (1.48)
 419.79
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
199
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
 Profit from continuing operations before tax
 (483)
 52,052
 Profit from discontinued operations
 -
 2,67,217
 Adjustments for non-cash transactions and items considered 
separately:
 Depreciation and amortisation expenses
 25,668 
 18,848 
 Finance costs
 18,317 
 17,145 
 Net unrealised gain on foreign currency translations
 (181)
 (278)
 Dividend income
 (0)
 (0)
 Provisions/ liabilities no longer required reversed/ written back
 (383)
 - 
 Interest income
 (7,144)
 (9,681)
 Gain on remeasurement of lease liabilities
 (283)
 (247)
 Net (gain) on sale / fair valuation of investments designated at FVTPL
 (2,285)
 (1,114)
 Loss on sale of investments
 - 
 14 
 Apportioned income from government grants
 (169)
 (170)
 Allowance for expected credit loss (net)
 1,478 
 892 
 Provision towards slow moving and non moving inventory
 1,624 
 1,256 
 Loss/ (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
 204 
 (61)
 (Reversal)/ expenses on share based payments
 (36)
 711 
 Exceptional items (excluding non cash items) (refer note 34)
 Gain on sale of FMCG business (refer note 54)
 -
 (2,67,217)
 Operating profit before working capital changes
 36,327
 79,366
 Change in working capital:  
 Trade and other receivables
 4,547 
 (35,795)
 Inventories
 (2,944)
 (9,871)
 Trade and other payables and provisions
 11,308 
 (33,914)
 Expenses adjusted during settlement of consideration by Raymond 
Limited (net) (refer note 53)
 (6,150)
 - 
 Cash generated from/ (used in) operating activities before taxes
 43,088 
 (214)
 Income taxes paid (net of refunds)
 6,308 
 (1,870)
 Net cash generated from/ (used in) operating activities
 49,396 
 (2,084)
 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 Inflows
 Proceeds from sale of FMCG business (net of taxes paid) (refer note 
54) 
 - 
 2,26,903 
 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 
 168 
 814 
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment/ intangible assets 
(including adjustment for capital WIP, intangible assets under 
development, capital advance and creditors for capital goods) 
 (14,082)
 (9,762)
 Interest received 
 7,144 
 9,678 
 Dividend received  
 1 
 1 
 Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 
 - 
 140 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
200
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Acquisition of current investments 
 (4,212)
 (84,000)
 Placement of short term deposits with banks (net) 
 (9,190)
 (5,963)
 Loans repaid by subsidiaries 
 6,875 
 - 
 Loans given to subsidiaries 
 (10,000)
 (10,000)
 Net cash (used in)/ generated from investing activities 
 (23,296)
 1,27,811 
 Net cash (used in)/ generated from investing activities
 (23,296)
 1,27,811
 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 Repayment of long term borrowings
 (10,000)
 (80,425)
 Proceeds from long term borrowings
 10,000 
 - 
 Proceeds/ (repayment) of short term borrowings (net)
 30,515 
 (23,883)
 Dividend paid by Raymond Limited reimbursed to them (refer note 57)
 (6,000)
 - 
 Payment of lease liabilities
 (12,084)
 (8,652)
 Payment of interest on lease liabilities
 (7,431)
 (4,861)
 Payment of interest and other finance cost
 (11,148)
 (12,802)
 Net cash (used in) financing activities
 (6,148)
 (1,30,623)
 NET INCREASE/ (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 19,952
 (4,896)
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
 4,373
 9,269
 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
 24,325
 4,373
 Components of cash and cash equivalents (refer notes 12 and 
22)
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Balances with banks:
 - In current accounts
 24,323
 4,297
 Cash on hand
 112
 87
 Less: Bank overdraft
 (110)
 (11)
 Balances as per statement of Cash Flows
 24,325
 4,373
Notes:
1 	
The cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 7, 
‘Statement of Cash flows’.
2 	
Refer note 40 for cash flow changes in liabilities arising from financial activities
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
 This is the Standalone Statement of Cash Flow referred to in our report of even date
For WALKER CHANDIOK & CO LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah
Gautam Hari Singhania
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Chairman and Managing Director
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
201
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
A.     Equity share capital (refer note 17)
Particulars
Notes
Number of 
shares 
 Amount
As at 31 March 2023
 29,80,000 
 298 
Shares on account of stock split *
 17
 1,19,20,000 
 - 
Cancellation of Old Equity Shares
 17 
(1,49,00,000 )
 (298)
Issue of New Equity Shares on Account of Merger (Lifestyle Business)
 17
 76,73,628 
 153 
As at 31 March 2024
 76,73,628 
 153 
Add: Changes during the year
 17 
 5,32,50,000 
 1,065 
As at 31 March 2025
 6,09,23,628 
 1,218 
* During the previous year, the authorised share capital of the Company which comprised of 3,030,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 each was divided into 15,150,000 shares of ₹ 2 each on 26 April 
2023 post split in 1:5 ratio.
B. Other Equity
Particulars
 Capital 
Reserve 
 Capital 
Contribution by 
erstwhile Parent  
 Share options 
outstanding 
account 
 Securities 
Premium 
 Retained 
Earnings 
 Total 
As at 1 April 2023
 5,614 
 732 
 33 
 - 
 7,385 
 13,764 
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 53)
 23,483 
 - 
 711 
 6,64,581 
 - 
 6,88,775 
Reserve on account of demerger
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Profit for the year continue business
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,55,750 
 2,55,750 
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 290 
 290 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 23,483 
 - 
 711 
 6,64,581 
 2,56,040 
 9,44,815 
Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners:
Employee stock option expenses / (reversal)
 - 
 - 
 (33)
 - 
 - 
 (33)
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 53)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Balance as at 31 March 2024 
 29,097 
 732 
 711 
 6,64,581 
 2,63,425 
 9,58,545 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (900)
 (900)
Expenses adjusted through reserves**
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (6,151)
 (6,151)
Other comprehensive income
 1,111 
 1,111 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5,939)
 (5,939)
Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners:
 Dividends 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (6,000)
 (6,000)
 Employee Stock Option expense 
 - 
 - 
 (37)
 - 
 - 
 (37)
 Balance as at 31 March 2025 
 29,097 
 732 
 674 
 6,64,581 
 2,45,335 
 9,46,569 
** Expenses pertaining to period 01 April 2024 to 30 June 2024. Also refer note 53
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
202
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Nature and purpose of reserves:
Securities premium
Amount received (on issue of shares) in excess of the par value has been classified as securities premium. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act
Capital reserve
Any profit or loss on purchase, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instrument is transferred to capital reserve
Share options outstanding account
The stock option outstanding account is used to record the value of equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees. 
The amounts recorded in this account are transferred to the securities premium account upon exercise of stock options by employees, 
as applicable. In case of forfeiture, corresponding balance is transferred to general reserve
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises of current year and prior years undistributed earnings/ (loss) after taxes
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these standalone financial statements
This is the standalone statement of changes in equity referred to in our report of even date
For WALKER CHANDIOK & CO LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah
Gautam Hari Singhania
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Executive Chairman
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
203
1	
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A.	
Background
	
Raymond Lifestyle Limited (‘RLL’ or ‘the Company’)
[CIN:L74999MH2018PLC316288] 
incorporated 
in 
India is a leading Indian Textile, Lifestyle and Branded 
Apparel Company. The Company has its wide network 
of operations in local as well foreign market. Company 
is a textile powerhouse with modern infrastructure and 
strong fibre-to-fabric manufacturing capabilities. Along 
with being reputed, it is the fastest-growing fashion fabric 
brand. Raymond Lifestyle offers an exquisite range of 
shirting and suiting fabrics across a plethora of options 
such as Worsted fabrics, Cotton, Wool blends, Linen and 
Denim.
	
The Company is a public limited company and is listed 
on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock 
Exchange (NSE).
	
The Company has its registered office at Plot No.G-35 & 
36, MIDC Waluj Taluka, Gangapur, Aurangabad - 431136, 
Maharashtra.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held 
on 27 April 2023 had approved the Composite Scheme 
of Arrangement for the demerger of the lifestyle business 
undertaking of Raymond Limited (‘Demerged Company’) 
into Raymond Lifestyle Limited (formerty known as 
Raymond Consumer Care Limited) (‘the Company’) on a 
going concern basis. The appointed date proposed under 
this scheme was 01 April 2023.
	
The Company had received requisite approval from 
National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT) vide its order 
dated 21 June 2024. Respective companies had filed the 
certified true copy of NCLT order along with the sanctioned 
scheme with the Registrar of Companies on 30 June 2024. 
Accordingly, the scheme was effeclive w.e.f. 30 June 2024.
	
The accounting of this scheme in the books of the Company 
has been done in accordance with Ind AS 103 ‘Business 
Combinations· (‘Ind AS 103’) as on the appointed date. In 
accordance with Ind AS 103, purchase consideration has 
been allocated on the basis of fair valuation determined 
by an independent valuer.
	
As a consideralion for the demerger, the Company was 
required to issue rts equity shares to the shareholders of 
Raymond Limited as on record date in 4:5 swap ratio (i.e., 
four shares of Rs. 2 each had to be issued by Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited for every five shares of Rs. 10 each held 
by the shareholders in Raymond Limited).
	
Accordingly, 
the 
Holding 
Company 
had 
allotted 
53,258,984 equity shares having face value of Rs. 2 each 
to the shareholders of Raymond Limited on 11 July 2024. 
These equity shares were subsequently listed on BSE 
Limited (‘BSE’) and the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (‘NSE’) on 05 September 2024.
B. 	
Material Accounting Policies followed by the 
Company
(a) 	 Basis of preparation
(i) 	
Compliance with Ind AS
	
These 
standalone 
financial 
statements 
(‘financial statements’) have been prepared 
on an “accrual basis” in accordance with the 
Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) read with of 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended, and other relevant 
provisions of the Act and guidelines issued by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI).
	
The 
accounting 
policies 
are 
applied 
consistently to all the periods presented in the 
financial statements.
(ii)	
Historical cost convention
	
The financial statements have been prepared 
on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:
1)	
certain financial assets and liabilities that 
are measured at fair value;
2)	
assets held for sale - measured at lower 
of carrying amount or fair value less cost 
to sell;
3)	
defined benefit plans - plan assets 
measured at fair value;
(iii)	 Current and non-current classification
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified 
as current or non-current based on the 
Company’s normal operating cycle for each of 
its businesses, as per the criteria set out in the 
Schedule III to the Act.
(iv) 	 Rounding of amounts
	
All amounts disclosed in the financial 
statements and notes have been rounded off 
to the nearest lakhs as per the requirement of 
Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
(b) 	 Use of estimates
	
The estimates used in the preparation of the 
financial statements are continuously evaluated 
by the Company and are based on historical 
experience and various other assumptions and 
factors (including expectations of future events) that 
the Company believes to be reasonable under the 
existing circumstances. Differences between actual 
results and estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the results are known/materialised.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
204
	
The said estimates are based on the facts and events, 
that existed as at the reporting date, or that occurred 
after that date but provide additional evidence about 
conditions existing as at the reporting date.
(c) 	 Property, plant and equipment (including Capital 
Work-in-Progress)
	
The Company had applied for the one time transition 
exemption of considering the carrying cost on the 
transition date i.e. 1st April, 2015 as the deemed 
cost under IND AS, regarded thereafter as historical 
cost.
	
Freehold land is carried at cost. All other items of 
property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
depreciation and impairment, if any. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to 
the acquisition of the items.
	
Capital Work-in-progress includes expenditure 
incurred till the assets are put into intended use. 
Capital Work-in-Progress are measured at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses, if any.
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will 
flow to the Company and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any 
component accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the Statement of Profit 
and Loss during the reporting period in which they 
are incurred.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives 
and residual value
	
Depreciation on Factory Buildings, Specific non 
factory buildings, Plant and Equipment, is provided 
as per the Straight Line Method and in case of other 
assets as per the Written Down Value Method, over 
the estimated useful lives of assets. Leasehold land 
is amortised over the period of lease. Leasehold 
improvements are amortised over the period of lease 
or estimated useful life, whichever is lower.
	
The Company depreciates its property, plant and 
equipment (PPE) over the useful life in the manner 
prescribed in Schedule II to the Act. Management 
believes that useful life of assets are same as those 
prescribed in Schedule II to the Act, except for plant 
and equipment’s and aircraft wherein based on 
technical evaluation, useful life has been estimated 
to be different from that prescribed in Schedule II of 
the Act.
	
Useful life considered for calculation of depreciation 
for various assets class are as follows-
Asset Classification
Useful life
Factory Building
30 years
Non- Factory Building
60 years
Plant and Equipment's
7 - 24 years
Furniture and Fixtures
10 years
Office Equipment
5 years
Vehicles
8 years
Boat and water equipment's
13 years
	
The residual values are not more than 5% of the 
original cost of the asset. The assets residual 
values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if 
appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
	
Depreciation on additions / deletions is calculated 
pro-rata from the month of such addition / deletion, 
as the case maybe.
	
Balance as at 31 March 2024 Gains and losses on 
disposals are determined by comparing proceeds 
with carrying amount. These are included in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
(d)	
Investment properties
	
The Company had applied for the one time transition 
exemption of considering the carrying cost on the 
transition date i.e. 1st April, 2015 as the deemed 
cost under IND AS, regarded thereafter as historical 
cost.
	
Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for 
capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied 
by the Company, is classified as investment 
property. Investment property is measured at its 
cost, including related transaction costs and where 
applicable borrowing costs less depreciation and 
impairment if any.
	
Depreciation on building is provided over it’s useful 
life using the written down value method, in a 
manner similar to PPE.
	
Useful life considered for calculation of depreciation 
for assets class are as follows-
	
Asset Classification Useful life
	
Non- factory building 60 years
(e)	
Intangible assets (including intangible assets 
under development)
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are carried 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses. Cost of a non-
monetary asset acquired in exchange of another 
non-monetary asset is measured at fair value.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
205
	
The Company amortizes intangible assets with 
a finite useful life using the straight-line method 
over following period in the statement of profit and 
loss under the head depreciation and amortization 
expense.
	
Asset Class Useful Life
	
Computer Software 3 years
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These 
are included in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal 
(i.e., at the date the recipient obtains control) or 
when no future economic benefits are expected 
from its use or disposal.
	
The amortisation period and the amortisation 
method for finite-life intangible assets is reviewed at 
each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, 
if appropriate. Indefinite-life intangible assets 
comprises of trademarks and brands, for which 
there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which 
they are expected to generate net cash inflows. 
These are considered to have an indefinite life, given 
the strength and durability of the brands and the level 
of marketing support. For indefinite-life intangible 
assets, the assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether it continues, if not, it 
is impaired or changed prospectively basis revised 
estimates.
(f)	
Leases
	
The Company assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, 
if the contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration.
	
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset, the Company 
assesses whether: (i) the contract involves the use of 
an identified asset (ii) the Company has substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the asset 
through the period of the lease and (iii) the Company 
has the right to direct the use of the asset.
	
Company as a lessee
	
At lease commencement date, the Company 
recognises a right-of-use assets and a lease 
liabilities on the balance sheet. The right-of-use 
asset is measured at cost, which is made up of 
the initial measurement of the lease liabilities, any 
initial direct costs incurred by the Company and 
any lease payments made in advance of the lease 
commencement date.
	
The Company depreciates the right-of-use assets on 
a straight-line basis from the lease commencement 
date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the 
right-of-use assets or the end of the lease term. The 
Company also assesses the right-of-use asset for 
impairment when such indicators exist.
	
At the commencement date of lease, the Company 
measures the lease liabilities at the present value of 
the lease payments to be made over the lease term, 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the 
lease if that rate is readily available or the Company’s 
incremental borrowing rate.
	
The Company cannot readily determine the interest 
rate implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its 
incremental borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease 
liabilities.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of 
the lease liability are made up of fixed payments 
(including in substance, fixed), and payments arising 
from options reasonably certain to be exercised. 
Subsequent to initial measurement, the liability will 
be reduced for payments made and increased for 
interest expenses. It is remeasured to reflect any 
reassessment or modification.
	
When the lease liability is remeasured, the 
corresponding adjustment is reflected in the right-
of-use asset or Statement of profit and loss, as the 
case may be.
	
The Company has elected to account for short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets using the 
exemption given under Ind AS 116, Leases. Instead 
of recognising a right-of-use asset and lease liability, 
the payments in relation to these are recognised as 
an expense in profit or loss on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term or on another systematic basis if 
that basis is more representative of the pattern of the 
Company’s benefit.
	
Company as a lessor
	
Leases for which the Company is a lessor classified 
as finance or operating lease.
	
Lease income from operating leases where the 
Company is a lessor is recognised in income on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term unless 
the receipts are structured to increase in line with 
expected general inflation to compensate for the 
expected inflationary cost increases. The respective 
leased assets are included in the balance sheet 
based on their nature.
(g) 	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks, cash on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less, that are readily convertible to a 
known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
206
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement 
of cash flows, Cash and cash equivalents includes 
cash on hand, bank overdraft, deposits held at 
call with financial institutions, other short-term 
highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value.
(h)	
Inventories
	
Inventories of Raw Materials, Work-in-Progress, 
Stores and spares, Finished Goods, Stock-in-trade 
and Property under development are stated ‘at 
cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower’. 
Goods-in-Transit are stated ‘at cost’. Cost comprise 
all cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other 
costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Cost formulae 
used are ‘First-in-First-out’, ‘Weighted Average 
cost’ or ‘Specific identification’, as applicable. Due 
allowance is estimated and made for defective and 
obsolete items, wherever necessary.
(i)	
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates
	
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates are recognised at cost as per Ind AS 
27, as reduced by provision for impairment loss, 
if any. Except where investments accounted for 
at cost shall be accounted for in accordance with 
Ind AS 105, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations, when they are classified 
as held for sale.
(j)	
Investments and other financial assets
(i)	
Classification
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in 
the following measurement categories:
(1)	
 those to be measured subsequently 
at fair value (either through other 
comprehensive income, or through the 
Statement of Profit and Loss), and
(2)	
those measured at amortised cost.
	
The 
classification 
depends 
on 
the 
Company’s business model for managing 
the financial assets and the contractual 
terms of the cash flows.
(ii)	
Measurement
	
At initial recognition, the Company measures 
a financial asset (excluding trade receivables 
which do not contain a significant financing 
component) at its fair value . Transaction 
costs of financial assets carried at fair value 
through the Profit and Loss are expensed in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Debt instruments:
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Company’s business model 
for managing the asset and the cash flow 
characteristics of the asset. The Company 
classifies its debt instruments into following 
categories:
(1)	
Amortised cost: Assets that are held 
for collection of contractual cash flows 
where those cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest are 
measured at amortised cost. Interest 
income from these financial assets 
is included in other income using the 
effective interest rate method.
(2)	
Fair value through profit and loss: 
Assets that do not meet the criteria for 
amortised cost are measured at fair value 
through statement of Profit and Loss. 
Interest income from these financial 
assets is included in other income.
	
Equity instruments:
	
The Company measures its equity investment 
other than in subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates at fair value through profit 
and loss. However where the Company’s 
management makes an irrevocable choice on 
initial recognition to present fair value gains 
and losses on specific equity investments 
in other comprehensive income , there is 
no subsequent reclassification, on sale or 
otherwise, of fair value gains and losses to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Compound financial instruments:
	
Preference shares, which are non-convertible 
and redeemable on a specific date, are 
classified as compound financial instruments.
	
The fair value of the asset portion is determined 
using a market interest rate. This amount is 
recorded as a asset on an amortised cost 
basis until extinguished on redemption of 
the preference shares. The remainder of 
the proceeds is attributable to the equity 
component of the compound instrument. This 
is recognised and included in deemed equity 
investment, net of income tax effects, and not 
subsequently measured.
(iii)	 Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company measures the expected credit 
loss associated with its assets based on 
historical trend, industry practices and the 
business environment in which the entity 
operates or any other appropriate basis. The 
impairment methodology applied depends on 
whether there has been a significant increase 
in credit risk.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
207
(iv)	 Income recognition
	
Interest income
	
Interest income from debt instruments is 
recognised using the effective interest rate 
method.
	
Dividends
	
Dividends are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss only when the right to receive 
payment is established.
(k)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful 
life are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
they might be impaired. Other assets are tested 
for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is 
recognised for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s 
fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. 
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets 
are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are 
separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets 
or group of assets (cash-generating units). Assets 
other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are 
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at 
the end of each reporting period.
(l)	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if 
their carrying amount will be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use and a sale is considered highly 
probable. They are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, 
except for assets such as deferred tax assets, assets 
arising from employee benefits, financial assets and 
contractual rights under insurance contracts, which 
are specifically exempt from this requirement.
	
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised 
while they are classified as held for sale.
(m)	 Derivative financial instruments
	
Derivative financial instruments such as forward 
contracts, option contracts and cross currency 
swaps, to hedge its foreign currency risks are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date a derivative 
contract is entered into and are subsequently re-
measured at their fair value with changes in fair value 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the 
period when they arise.
(n)	
Segment Reporting:
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
chief operating decision maker.
(o)	
Borrowings
	
Borrowings are initially recognised at net of transaction 
costs incurred and measured at amortised cost. Any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss over the period of 
the borrowings using the effective interest method.
(p)	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest, ancillary costs 
and other costs in connection with the borrowing of 
funds and exchange differences arising from foreign 
currency borrowings to the extent they are regarded 
as an adjustment to interest costs.
	
Interest and other borrowing costs attributable to 
qualifying assets are capitalised upto the date such 
assets are ready for their intended use. Other interest 
and borrowing costs are charged to Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
(q)	
Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company has 
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of past events, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation and 
the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are 
not recognised for future operating losses.
	
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the end 
of the reporting period. The discount rate used to 
determine the present value is a pre tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the liability. 
The increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as interest expense.
	
Contingent Liabilities are disclosed in respect of 
possible obligations that arise from past events but 
their existence will be confirmed by the occurrence 
or non occurrence of one or more uncertain future 
events not wholly within the control of the Company 
or where any present obligation cannot be measured 
in terms of future outflow of resources or where a 
reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
(r)	
Revenue recognition
	
The Company derives revenues primarily from sale 
of manufactured goods, traded goods and related 
services.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
208
	
Revenue 
is 
recognized 
on 
satisfaction 
of 
performance obligation upon transfer of control of 
promised products or services to customers in an 
amount that reflects the consideration the Company 
expects to receive in exchange for those products or 
services.
	
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price 
(which is the consideration, adjusted to discounts, 
incentives and returns, etc., if any) that is allocated 
to that performance obligation. These are generally 
accounted for as variable consideration estimated 
in the same period the related sales occur. The 
methodology and assumptions used to estimate 
rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted 
regularly in the light of contractual and legal 
obligations, historical trends, past experience and 
projected market conditions.
	
The Company operates a loyalty programme for the 
customers and franchisees for the sale of goods. The 
customers accumulate points for purchases made 
which entitles them to discount on future purchases. 
A contract liability for the award points is recognized 
at the time of the sale. Revenue is recognized when 
the points are redeemed or on expiry. The expenditure 
of loyalty programme is netted-off to revenue.
	
The Company does not expect to have any 
contracts where the period between the transfer 
of the promised goods or services to the customer 
and payment by the customer exceeds one year. 
As a consequence, it does not adjust any of the 
transaction prices for the time value of money.
	
Revenue from sale of products and services are 
recognised at the time of satisfaction of performance 
obligation .In determining whether an entity has right 
to payment, the entity shall consider whether it 
would have an enforceable right to demand or retain 
payment for performance completed to date if the 
contract were to be terminated before completion 
for reasons other than entity’s failure to perform as 
per the terms of the contract.
	
Other operating revenue - Export incentives
	
Export Incentives under various schemes are 
accounted in the year of export.
	
Trade receivables
	
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers 
for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary 
course of business and reflects company’s 
unconditional right to consideration (that is, payment 
is due only on the passage of time). Trade receivables 
of the Company, are recognised initially at the 
transaction price as they do not contain significant 
financing components. The company holds the 
trade receivables with the objective of collecting 
the contractual cash flows and therefore measures 
them subsequently at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less loss allowance.
(s)	
Employee benefits
(i)	
Short-term obligations
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including 
non-monetary benefits that are expected to 
be settled wholly within 12 months after the 
end of the period in which the employees 
render the related service are recognised in 
respect of employees’ services up to the end 
of the reporting period and are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid when the 
liabilities are settled.
(ii)	
Other 
long-term 
employee 
benefit 
obligations
	
The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave 
that are not expected to be settled wholly 
within 12 months are measured as the 
present value of expected future payments 
to be made in respect of services provided 
by employees up to the end of the reporting 
period using the projected unit credit method. 
The benefits are discounted using the discount 
rates for Government Securities (G-Sec) at the 
end of the reporting period that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related 
obligation. Remeasurement as a result of 
experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
(iii)	 Post-employment obligations
	
The Company operates the following post-
employment schemes:
(a)	
defined benefit plans such as gratuity, 
provident fund and pension; and
(b)	
defined contribution plans
	
Pension and gratuity obligations
	
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet 
in respect of defined benefit pension and gratuity 
plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less 
the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method.
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
	
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined 
benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. 
This cost is included in employee benefit expense in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
209
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which 
they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the balance 
sheet.
	
Provident fund
	
Defined Contribution Plans such as Provident Fund 
etc., are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss 
as incurred.
	
In accordance with the Employees’ Provident Fund 
and Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952, for certain 
eligible employees of the Company are entitled 
to receive benefits under the provident fund plan 
in which both the employee and employer (at a 
determined rate) contribute monthly to “Raymond 
Limited Employee’s Provident Fund Trust”, a Trust 
set up by the Company to manage the investments 
and distribute the amounts to employees at the 
time of separation from the Company or retirement, 
whichever is earlier. This plan is a defined obligation 
plan as the Company is obligated to provide 
its members a rate of return which should, at 
a minimum, meet the interest rate declared by 
government administered provident fund. A part 
of the Company’s contribution is transferred to 
government-administered 
pension 
fund. 
The 
contributions made by the Company and the shortfall 
of interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in the 
profit or loss under “Employee benefits expense”
	
Termination benefits
	
Termination benefits are payable when employment 
is terminated by the Company before the normal 
retirement date, or when an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. 
The Company recognises termination benefits at the 
earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Company 
can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; 
and (b) when the Company recognises costs for a 
restructuring that is within the scope of Ind AS 37 
and involves the payment of terminations benefits. 
In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary 
redundancy, the termination benefits are measured 
based on the number of employees expected to 
accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 
months after the end of the reporting period are 
discounted to present value.
(iv)	 Share based payments
	
Share-based compensation benefits are provided 
to employees via the “Raymond Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023” (ESOP scheme). The fair value 
of options granted under the ESOP scheme is 
recognised as an employee benefits expense with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The total amount 
to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted:
•	
including any market performance conditions 
(e.g., the entity’s share price)
•	
excluding the impact of any service and non-
market performance vesting conditions (e.g. 
profitability, sales growth targets and remaining 
an employee of the entity over a specified time 
period), and
•	
including the impact of any non-vesting 
conditions (e.g. the requirement for employees 
to serve or hold shares for a specific period of 
time).
	
The total expense is recognised over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the 
specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
(t)	
Foreign currency translation
(i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
The financial statements are presented in 
Indian rupee (INR), which is Company’s 
functional and presentation currency.
(ii)	
Transactions and balances
	
Transactions 
in 
foreign 
currencies 
are 
recognised at the prevailing exchange rates 
on the transaction dates. Realised gains and 
losses on settlement of foreign currency 
transactions are recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities 
at the year-end are translated at the year-end 
exchange rates and the resultant exchange 
differences are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in foreign 
currencies are not translated thereafter.
(u)	
Income tax
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the 
tax payable on the current period’s taxable income 
based on the applicable income tax rate adjusted 
by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 
attributable to temporary differences and to unused 
tax losses.
	
There are many transactions and calculations for 
which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. 
The Company recognises liabilities for anticipated 
tax issues based on estimates of whether additional 
taxes will be due. The uncertain tax positions are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid to 
taxation authorities when the Company determines 
that the probable outflow of economic resources will 
occur. Where the final tax outcome of these matters 
is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the current 
and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the 
period in which such determination is made.
	
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the 
liability method on temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amount in the financial statement. 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
210
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates 
(and laws) that have been enacted or substantially 
enacted by the end of the reporting period and are 
excepted to apply when the related deferred income 
tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses, only 
if, it is probable that future taxable amounts will be 
available to utilise those temporary differences and 
losses.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred 
tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. 
Current tax assets and tax liabilities are off set where 
the Company has a legally enforceable right to offset 
and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is 
also recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, respectively.
(v)	
Earnings Per Share
	
Basic earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
-	
the profit/loss attributable to owners of the 
Company
-	
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the financial year, 
adjusted for bonus elements in equity shares 
issued during the year and excluding treasury 
shares.
	
Diluted earnings per share
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
-	
the after income tax effect of interest and 
other financing costs associated with dilutive 
potential equity shares, and
-	
the weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been outstanding 
assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
(w)	 Government Grants
	
Grants from the government are recognised at their 
fair value where there is reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received and the Company will 
comply with all attached conditions.
	
Government grants relating to the purchase of 
property, plant and equipment are included in 
non-current liabilities as deferred income and are 
credited to the statement of Profit and Loss on a 
straight - line basis over the expected lives of related 
assets and presented within other income.
(x)	
Manufacturing and Operating Expenses and 
Costs towards development of property
	
The Company discloses separately manufacturing 
and operating expenses and costs towards 
development of property which are directly linked to 
respective activities, as a part of ‘Other expenses’.
(y)	
Exceptional items
	
When items of income and expense within 
statement of profit and loss from ordinary activities 
are of such size, nature or incidence that their 
disclosure is relevant to explain the performance of 
the enterprise for the period, the nature and amount 
of such material items are disclosed separately as 
exceptional items.
(z)	
Recent Pronouncements
	
The ‘Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies 
new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. For 
the year ended 31st March 2025, MCA has notified 
amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to sale 
and leaseback transactions, which is applicable to 
the Company w.e.f. 1st April 2024. The Company has 
reviewed the new pronouncements and based on its 
evaluation has determined that it’s not likely to have 
any significant impact in its financial statements.
C	
Critical estimates and judgements -
	
The preparation of financial statements requires the use 
of accounting estimates which by definition will seldom 
equal the actual results. Management also need to 
exercise judgement in applying the Company’s accounting 
policies.
	
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and items 
which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to 
estimates and assumptions turning out to be different 
than those originally assessed. Detailed information about 
each of these estimates and judgements is included in 
relevant notes together with information about the basis 
of calculation for each affected line item in the financial 
statements.
	
The areas involving critical estimates or judgement 
are:
(i)	
Estimated useful life of PPE, investment property and 
intangible assets - refer note 2A, 3 and 4.
	
The Company reviews the useful lives of property, plant and 
equipment, Investment properties and intangible assets 
at the end of each reporting period. This reassessment 
may result in change in depreciation and amortisation 
expense in future periods.
(ii)	
Inventory write down - refer note 9
	
The Company reviews the allowance for defective and 
obsolete items inventory, wherever necessary at the end 
of each reporting period.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
211
(iii)	 Estimation of tax expenses, utilisation of deferred tax 
assets and tax payable - refer note 35
	
The Company reviews the carrying amount of tax 
expenses, deferred tax assets and tax payable at the end 
of each reporting period.
(iv)	 Probable outcome of matters included under 
Contingent Liabilities - refer note 38
	
Management has estimated the possible outflow of 
resources at the end of each annual reporting financial 
year, if any, in respect of contingencies/litigations against 
the Company as it is not possible to predict the outcome 
of pending matters with accuracy.
(v)	
Estimation of Defined benefit obligation - Note 41
	
The cost of post-employment benefits is determined 
using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves 
making assumptions about discount rates, future salary 
increases and mortality rates. Due to the long term nature 
of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant 
uncertainty.
(vi)	 Leases – Estimating the incremental borrowing rate 
-refer note no 1 (ii) (f)
	
The Company cannot readily determine the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental 
borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR is 
the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to 
borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security, the 
fund necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the 
right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
(vii)	 Allowance for doubtful debts
	
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are 
stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Under 
Ind AS, impairment allowance has been determined 
based on Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model. Estimated 
irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the 
receivable balance and historical experience. Individual 
trade receivables are written off if the same are not 
collectible.
(viii)	Sales Return
	
The Company accounts for sales returns accrual by 
recording an allowance for sales returns concurrent with 
the recognition of revenue at the time of a product sale. 
This allowance is based on the Company’s estimate of 
expected sales returns. The Company deals in various 
products and operates in various markets. Accordingly, 
the estimate of sales returns is determined primarily by 
the Company’s historical experience in the markets in 
which the Company operates.
(ix)	 Share-based payments
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payments requires 
determination of the most appropriate valuation model, 
which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the 
grant. The estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including 
the expected life of the option, volatility and dividend yield 
and making assumptions about them.
D.	
Business Combinations:
	
Method of Accounting:
	
Business combinations are accounted for using the 
acquisition method.
	
Acquisition Date:
	
The acquisition date is the date when control is transferred 
to the acquirer. Judgment is applied to determine this date 
and assess control.
	
Definition of Control:
	
Control exists when the Group is exposed to variable 
returns and can influence those returns through power 
over the acquiree. Substantive potential voting rights are 
considered in assessing control.
	
Measurement of Goodwill:
	
Goodwill is measured as the excess of consideration 
transferred (including non-controlling interest) over the 
net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
	
If net assets exceed consideration, the excess is 
recognized as capital reserve (bargain purchase gain).
	
Consideration Transferred:
	
Includes:
i. 	
Fair value of assets transferred
ii. 	
Liabilities incurred to previous owners
iii. 	
Equity interests issued
iv. 	
Fair value of contingent consideration
	
Excludes:
i. 	
Amounts related to settlement of pre-existing 
relationships
	
Contingent Consideration:
	
If classified as equity: not remeasured, settled within 
equity
	
Otherwise: remeasured at fair value, changes recognized 
in profit or loss
	
Transaction Costs:
	
All acquisition-related costs (e.g., legal, due diligence, 
consulting fees) are expensed as incurred.
	
Non-controlling Interest (NCI):
	
NCI is recognized either:
i. 	
At fair value, or
ii. 	
At proportionate share of net assets of the acquiree
	
Impairment of Goodwill:
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
	
Acquisition of NCI (Post-Control):
	
Treated as equity transactions.
	
Difference between consideration paid and carrying value 
of net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
212
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
2A - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold 
Land
 Buildings
 Leasehold 
Improvement
 Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Vehicles
 Office 
equipment
 Electrical 
Installation
Computers 
and 
servers
 Right to Use Assets
 Total
Leasehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Buildings
 Gross carrying amount
 Balance as at 1 April 2023
 14,810
 179
 1,829
 1,513
 315
 12
 135
 67
 493
 17
 1,786
 21,156
 Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle 
Business (refer note 53)
 -
 19,650
 -
 46,256
 1,017
 11
 465
 -
 -
 11,790
 33,076
 1,12,265
 Additions
 -
 108
 2,443
 2,770
 48
 1,422
 150
 5
 7
 -
 44,731
 51,684
 Disposals / adjustment
 7
 10
 -
 157
 15
 62
 7
 0
 95
 -
 2,948
 3,301
 Transferred on account of slump sale (refer note 
54)
 -
 -
 577
 431
 281
 -
 123
 37
 394
 -
 -
 1,843
 Balance as at 31 March 2024
 14,803
 19,927
 3,695
 49,951
 1,084
 1,383
 621
 35
 11
 11,807
 76,645
 1,79,961
 Additions
 -
 241
 4,580
 3,698
 1,317
 758
 379
 -
 5
 -
 45,336
 56,314
 Disposals/Adjustment
 93
 691
 492
 1,419
 198
 35
 5
 -
 -
 -
 2,880
 5,813
 Balance as at 31 March 2025
 14,710
 19,478
 7,783
 52,229
 2,203
 2,106
 995
 35
 16
 11,807
 1,19,101
 2,30,463
 Accumulated Depreciation and amortisation
 Balance as at 1 April 2023
 92
 508
 309
 137
 10
 107
 22
 406
 2
 1,436
 3,029
 Charge for the year
 -
 1,011
 547
 5,847
 227
 71
 63
 6
 6
 5
 11,076
 18,859
 Disposals
 -
 9
 -
 92
 15
 -
 3
 0
 94
 -
 1,692
 1,905
 Transferred on account of slump sale (refer note 
54)
 -
 -
 519
 197
 128
 -
 98
 24
 314
 -
 -
 1,280
 Balance as at 31 March 2024
 -
 1,094
 536
 5,867
 221
 81
 69
 4
 4
 7
 10,820
 18,703
 Charge for the year
 1,541
 1,164
 6,790
 370
 273
 148
 7
 3
 5
 15,326
 25,627
 Disposals/Adjustment
 638
 460
 1,239
 190
 34
 5
 -
 -
 -
 995
 3,561
 Balance as at 31 March 2025
 -
 1,997
 1,240
 11,418
 401
 320
 212
 11
 7
 12
 25,151
 40,769
 Net carrying amount
 Balance as at 31 March 2024
 14,803
 18,834
 3,159
 44,084
 863
 1,303
 552
 30
 7
 11,801
 65,824
 1,61,258
 Balance as at 31 March 2025
 14,710
 17,481
 6,543
 40,811
 1,802
 1,786
 782
 23
 9
 11,795
 93,950
 1,89,694
Notes:
(i) 	
For capital commitments, refer note 39.
(ii) 	 Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
(iii) 	  Pursuant to demerger the title deed of freehold land and building are in the process of getting recordial transfer in the name of the Company in the reocords of government authorities.
(iv) 	 Refer note 40 for disclosure on leased assets and related lease liabilities.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
213
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
2B -	 Capital work-in-progress (‘CWIP’)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
 Balance as at 01 April 2023
 -
 Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 53)
 1,546
 Additions
 1,503
 Assets capitalised
 1,383
 Balance as at 31 March 2024
 1,666
 Additions
 3,283
 Assets capitalised
 1,106
 Balance as at 31 March 2025
 3,843
Note: CWIP ageing schedule
Particulars
 Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total
 Less than 1 year
 1-2 year
 2-3 years
 more than 3 years
 As at 31 March 2024
 Project in progress
 797
 549
 -
 320
 1,666
 Project temporary suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 As at 31 March 2025
 Project in progress
 3,258
 266
 -
 320
 3,843
 Project temporary suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Projects delayed as at 
31 March 2025
 (Rs in lakhs)
 Reason for delay
 Textile Plant Upgradation
 266 ‘Capex related to plant upgradation to be done at suiting plants. Textile Plant 
Upgradation capex have multiple agencies associated for supplies of machineries 
and installation. Machinery and parts have long lead time and also need installation. 
Due to slow supplies of Machinery and installation projects are getting delayed from 
vendor. The Company expects all such plant upgradations will get completed by end 
of financial year 2025-26
 SAP HANA
 320 The Company is upgrading its ERP system by implementing S4 HANA (i.e. updated 
version of SAP). This project was kept on hold due to COVID 19 for two years, during 
the financial year 2022-2023, the Company have resumed this project and expects to 
get it completed by end of financial year 2025-26.
Notes:
There are no Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) that are overdue or have exceeded their original plan/ budget
(i)	
For capital commitments, refer note 39.
(ii)	 Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the 
Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
214
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
3.	
Investment 
Properties
Particulars
Total
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 -
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 53)
 187
Additions
 -
Disposals
 -
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 187
Additions
 -
Disposals/ Adjustment
 5
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
 182
Accumulated Depreciation
Balance as at 1 April, 2023
 -
Charge for the year
 7
Disposals
 -
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
 7
Charge for the year
 6
Disposals
 -
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
 13
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
 180
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
 169
Fair value
As at 31 March, 2024
 3,196
As at 31 March, 2025
 4,013
The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property. The contractual obligation related to repair, 
maintenance and enhancement is with the Company.
Amount recognised in profit or loss
 Year Ended
 31 March, 2025
Rental income from investment properties (refer note 26)
 180
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) generating rental income (refer note 33B)
 19
Premises given on operating lease:
The Company has given certain investment properties on lease. These arrangements are classified as operating leases from a lessor 
perspective because all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the assets are not transferred substantially to the lessee. 
These lease arrangements range for a period between 2 and 5 years and include both cancellable and non-cancellable leases. Most 
of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually agreeable terms. The Company has not retained any right in underlying 
asset.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
215
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Maturity analysis of lease payments receivable at the balance sheet date on an undiscounted basis:
As at
31 March, 2025
Less than 1 year
180
1-2 years
180
2-3 years
45
3-4 years
 -
4-5 years
 -
More than 5 years
 -
For a period later than five years
 -
The Company has not earned gain or incurred loss from sale and lease back transaction.
There are no significant restrictions or covenants imposed on leases.
Estimation of fair value
This fair value is based on valuations performed by an registered independent valuer/ best evidence of fair value in an active market 
for similar properties. Fair valuation is based on replacement cost method. The fair value measurement is categorised in level 3 fair 
value hierarchy.
4A	
Intangible Assets
Particulars
 Computer 
Software
 Brand
 Distribution Network & 
Customer Relationship
 Total
 Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 389
 -
 -
 389
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle 
Business (refer note 53)
 1
 3,57,100
 1,05,367
 4,62,468
Additions
 12
 -
 -
 12
Disposals
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transferred out on account of slump sale (refer note 54)
 4
 -
 -
 4
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 398
 3,57,100
 1,05,367
 4,62,865
Additions/adjustment
 96
 -
 -
 96
Disposals
 -
 -
 -
 -
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 494
 3,57,100
 1,05,367
 4,62,961
Accumulated amortisation
 Balance as at 1 April, 2023
 389
 -
 -
 389
 Charge for the year
 4
 -
 -
 4
 Disposals
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Transferred out on account of slump sale (refer note 54)
 4
 -
 -
 4
 Balance as at 31 March 2024
 390
 -
 -
 390
 Charge for the year
 35
 -
 -
 35
 Disposals
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Balance as at 31 March 2025
 425
 -
 -
 425
 Net carrying amount
 Balance as at 31 March, 2024
 8
 3,57,100
 1,05,367
 4,62,475
 Balance as at 31 March, 2025
 69
 3,57,100
 1,05,367
 4,62,536
For capital commitments, refer note 35.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
216
4B 	 Intangible assets under developmnt (‘IAUD’)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Balance at the beginning of the year
 2,804
 -
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 
53)
 -
 475
Additions
 660
 2,329
Capitalisation
 -
 -
 Balance at the end of the year
 3,464
 2,804
IAUD represents the capital expenditure incurred to upgrade ERP version.
Ageing Schedule
Particulars
IAUD for a period of
 Total
 Less than 1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
 More than 3 years
 As at 31 March 2024
 Project in progress
 2,329
 -
 -
 475
 2,804
 Project temporary suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 As at 31 March 2025
 Project in progress
 660
 2,329
 -
 475
 3,464
 Project temporary suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Projects delayed as at 31 March 2025
 (Rs in lakhs)
 Reason for delay
 SAP HANA
3464 The Company is upgrading its ERP system by implementing S4 
HANA (i.e. updated version of SAP). This project was kept on hold 
due to COVID 19 for two years, during the financial year 2022-
2023, the Company have resumed this project and expects to 
get it completed by end of financial year 2025-26.
There is no IAUD whose completion is overdue or which has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan
5	
Investments in Subsidiaries
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 No. of Units
 Amount
 No. of Units
 Amount
Investment in subsidiaries
Unquoted
Equity instruments at cost, fully paid-up
Raymond (Europe) Limited (Equity Shares of £.1 each)
 1,000 
 750 
 1,000 
 750 
Jaykayorg AG (Equity Shares of Swiss Francs 100 each)
 500 
 3,170 
 500 
 3,170 
Silver Spark Apparel Limited (Equity Shares of ₹10 each)
 89,64,300 
 55,350 
 89,64,300 
 55,350 
Celebrations Apparel Limited (Equity Shares of ₹10 each)
 27,10,000 
 3,370 
 27,10,000 
 3,370 
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited (Equity Shares of ₹10 each)
 12,76,80,000 
 55,500  12,76,80,000 
 55,500 
Ray Global Consumer Product Limited (Equity Shares of ₹10 each)
 49,994 
 5 
 49,994 
 5 
Total
 1,18,145 
 1,18,145 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments before impairment
 1,18,145 
 1,18,145 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 - 
 - 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
217
5A	
Non-current Investments
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
A. Investment in government securities
Unquoted
At amortised cost
Investments in National Savings Certificates  (Deposited with 
Government Department as security)*
0
0
Total (A)
0
0
B. Investment in Debentures
Quoted
At amortised cost
8.40% Non cumulative debentures of Punjab national Bank 
(Units of ₹10,000,000 each)
 15
 1,527
 15
 1,487
8.64% Non cumulative debentures of Union Bank Perpetual 
(Units of ₹10,000,000 each)
 -
 -
 50
 4,990
10.25% Non cumulative debentures of Sammaan Finserve 
Limited (Units of ₹1,000,000 each)
 750
 7,754
 750
 7,293
9.5% Non cumulative debentures of Incred Financial Services 
Ltd (Units of ₹100,000 each)
 5,000
 4,976
 -
 -
Total (B)
 14,257
 13,770
Non-current Investments total (A+B)
 14,257
 13,770
Aggregate amount of quoted investments at cost
 14,257
 13,770
Market Value of the quoted investments amortised at cost
 14,257
 13,770
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
-
-
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 -
 -
* Amount represent less than ` 1 Lakh.
6	
Loans (non-current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
(Unsecured, considered good)
Loans to related parties (refer note 43)
 5,625
 -
Total
 5,625
 -
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company
-
 -
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a 
director or a member
 -
 -
Refer note 45 for information about credit risk and market risk for loans.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
218
7	
Other financial assets (non-current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise specified)
Security deposits
 10,210
 7,336
Less: Loss Allowance
 (1,064)
 (1,064)
Margin money deposits with bank (refer note (a) below)
 1,188
 77
Investments in term deposits (refer note (b) below)
 1,308
 12
Advance recoverable in Cash
 25
 25
Total
 11,667
 6,386
Note:
(a) 	 Lien against bank guarantees amounting to ₹ 1,188 lakhs ( 31 March 2024: ₹77 lakhs)
(b 	 Lien against bank overdraft facility amounting to ₹ 10 lakhs (31 March 2024:₹ 12 lakhs)
	
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the 
Company.
8	
Other non-current assets
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Capital advances
 491
 203
Prepaid expenses
 -
 45
Deposits with customs, port trust, excise and other receivables from 
government authorities
 2,694
 2,380
CVD Receivable (refer note below)
 1,043
 1,043
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,043)
 (1,043)
Total
 3,185
 2,628
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company
-
 -
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a 
director or a member
 -
 -
Note:
“Imported garments were fully exempted from payment of CVD under Notification No. 30/2004- C.E. dated 09th July 2004, subject 
to the condition that no CENVAT Credit has been availed on the inputs or on capital goods. However, during the relevant period 
(Financial year ended 31 March 2011 to 31 March 2014), there was a dispute between the importers and the Customs Department 
regarding the applicability of the said benefit and the fulfilment of the aforesaid condition. The Customs Department had taken a 
view that the condition of “where NO CENVAT credit has been availed on the inputs by suppliers” was not applicable on the imported 
goods and accordingly, the importers were not eligible for the benefit of the said Notification. Basis the above notification, Raymond 
Apparel Limited (business undertaking of Raymond apparel limited merged with Raymond Limited w.e.f 23 March 2022) had paid CVD 
under protest amounting to ₹ 2,257 Lakhs during the period from 2011 to 2015.
However, Raymond Apparel Limited (business undertaking of Raymond apparel limited merged with Raymond Limited w.e.f 23rd 
March 2022) had filed refund applications of CVD paid under protest, amounting to ₹ 2,257 Lakhs, basis the order passed by the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the case of M/s. SRF Ltd. vs Commissioner of Customs, Chennai reported at 2015 (318) E.L.T. 
607 (SC), which interpreted Condition No. 20 of Notification No. 06/2002-CE (Sl. No. 122). The Hon’ble Supreme Court held that 
importers of goods could claim benefit of such notification at the time of import for exemption from payment of CVD.
During FY 2023-24, out of total claim of ₹ 2,257.44 Lakhs, the Company has received the amount of ₹ 1,215 Lakhs and the same has 
been grouped under ‘Other income’.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
219
Customs Department has preferred appeal against the aforesaid refund of ₹ 1,215 Lakhs. Commissioner (Appeal) and CESTAT have 
ordered in favor of the refund. However, Department has now filed Appeal in High Court against CESTAT order”.
During FY 2023-24, the company re-evaluated its claim recoverables and filed an application for an additional CVD refund of ₹713 
lakhs, which is currently under process.
9	
Inventories
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Raw Materials (including in-transit of Rs. 1,444 lakhs , 31 March 2024: 
Rs. 1,704 lakhs)
 6,830
 8,586
Work-in-progress
 16,869
 15,853
Finished goods
 29,663
 30,781
Stock-in-trade (including in-transit of Rs. 623 lakhs, 31 March 2024: 
Rs. 329 lakhs)
 80,283
 76,495
Stores and Spares (including in-transit of Rs. 36 lakhs, 31 March 2024: 
Rs. 285 lakhs)
 2,775
 3,386
Total
 1,36,421
 1,35,101
Write down of inventories to net realisable value *
 13,545
 11,920
Reversal of write down of inventories
 -
 -
Inventory write downs are accounted, considering the nature of inventory, ageing, liquidation plan and net realisable value. These 
write-downs were recognised as an expense and included in ‘changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-
progress ‘ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
10 	 Current investments
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
A. Investment in Equity instruments
Quoted, fully paid-up
Mandatorily at FVTPL
Confidence Petroleum India Ltd (Equity shares of ₹ 1 each)
 2,50,000 
 117 
 2,50,000 
 210 
Total (A)
 117 
 210 
B. Mutual funds
Unquoted
Mandatorily at FVTPL
Aditya Birla Sun Life Money Manager Fund (Units of ₹100 each)
 9,42,180 
 3,464 
 14,63,875 
 4,989 
Aditya Birla Sun Life Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Direct Plan 
(Units of ₹10 each)
 3,19,313 
 359 
 - 
 - 
Aditya Birla Sun Life CRISIL -IBX Financial Services 3 to 6 
months debt index fund - Direct Growth (Units of ₹100 each)
 59,10,949 
 605 
 - 
 - 
Aditya Birla Sun Low Duration Fund - Growth - Direct Plan (Units 
of ₹100 each)
 5,41,028 
 3,850 
 - 
 - 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
220
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct Plan  (Units of 
₹100 each)
 - 
 - 
 2,61,618 
 1,020 
Aditya Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund (Units of ₹10 each)
 21,52,299 
 1,082 
 - 
 - 
Axis Arbitrage Fund - Direct Growth (Units of ₹10 each)
 74,82,335 
 1,492 
 - 
 - 
Axis Money Market Fund Direct Growth (Units of ₹1000 each)
 2,21,058 
 3,130 
 2,90,581 
 3,812 
Axis Ultra Short Duration Fund - Direct Growth (Units of ₹10 
each)
 11,76,562 
 180 
 - 
 - 
Bajaj Finserv Money Market Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  (Units 
of ₹1000 each)
 3,88,482 
 4,421 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Arbitrage Fund - Direct - Growth (Units of ₹10 each)
 31,00,946 
 1,070 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Bond Fund - Short Term Plan - Direct - Growth  (Units 
of ₹10 each)
 21,05,474 
 1,258 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Liquid Fund Growth (Units of ₹1000 each)
 - 
 - 
 98,891 
 2,885 
Bandhan Money Manager Fund Direct Plan-Growth (Units of 
₹10 each)
 24,18,806 
 1,035 
 50,43,121 
 2,001 
Bank of India Consumption Fund - Regular - Growth  (Units of 
₹10 each)
 49,99,750 
 477 
 - 
 - 
Canara Robeco Multi Cap -Regular Growth Plan (Units of ₹10 
each)
 49,99,750 
 652 
 49,99,750 
 591 
DSP Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth (Units of ₹1000 each)
 94,530 
 3,506 
 84,684 
 2,923 
Edelweiss Liquid Fund - Direct Plan Growth (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 - 
 - 
 1,93,706 
 6,041 
 Edelweiss Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth Option (Units of 
₹1000 each)
 - 
 - 
 32,110 
 1,001 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund - Growth Option - Direct Plan  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 28,87,970 
 940 
 - 
 - 
HDFC Money Market Fund - Growth Option - Direct Plan  (Units 
of ₹1000 each)
 1,04,117 
 5,952 
 - 
 - 
HDFC Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  (Units of ₹10 
each)
 1,63,887 
 101 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund (Units of ₹10 each)
 42,06,156 
 1,285 
 42,06,156 
 1,184 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Growth (Units of ₹10 
each)
 - 
 - 
 28,64,714 
 806 
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund - Direct Growth (Units of 
₹100 each)
 8,56,502 
 3,226 
 11,45,978 
 4,002 
ICICI Prudential Short Term Fund - Direct Plan -Growth  (Units of 
₹10 each)
 9,06,221 
 533 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Savings Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  (Units of 
₹100 each)
 15,639 
 84 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term Fund - Growth  (Units of ₹10 
each)
 - 
 - 
 73,65,083 
 2,006 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
221
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
Invesco India Arbitrage Fund - Direct Plan - Growth Option  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 39,86,455 
 1,352 
 - 
 - 
Invesco India Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 7,661 
 255 
 - 
 - 
Invesco India Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 87,220 
 3,105 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Equity Arbitrage Fund (Units of ₹10 each)
 44,47,058 
 1,750 
 2,80,486 
 102 
Kotak Bond Fund - Short Term Plan - Direct - Growth  (Units of 
₹10 each)
 18,73,745 
 1,050 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Liquid Fund -Direct Plan - Growth  (Units of ₹1000 each)
 66,912 
 3,506 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Money Market Fund - (Growth) - Direct  (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 34,476 
 1,533 
 - 
 - 
LIC Liquid Fund -  Direct Growth (Units of ₹1000 each)
 - 
 - 
 91,339 
 4,005 
Mirae Asset Arbitrage Fund Direct Growth  (Units of ₹10 each)
 29,66,893 
 395 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Arbitrage Fund  (Units Of ₹10 Each)
 56,87,825 
 1,604 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund -Direct Plan Growth Plan  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 16,79,138 
 1,032 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan Growth Plan - 
Growth Option (Units of Rs 1000 each)
 2,594 
 101 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Money Market Fund -Direct - Growth Plan (Units of 
₹1000 each)
 1,24,905 
 5,149 
 1,04,729 
 4,002 
Nippon India Ultra Short Duration Fund - Direct Growth Plan 
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 51,188 
 2,229 
 8,242 
 332 
SBI Equity Savings Fund - Regular Plan - Growth  (Units of ₹10 
each)
 8,73,052 
 198 
 - 
 - 
Tata Money Market Fund-Direct Plan - Growth (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 93,426 
 4,406 
 91,634 
 4,002 
Tata Treasury Advantage Fund - Direct Plan - Growth Option  
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 10,482 
 415 
 - 
 - 
Tata Ultra Short Term Fund-Direct Plan-Growth  (Units of ₹10 
each)
 20,89,876 
 305 
 - 
 - 
UTI Money Market Fund - Direct Plan-Growth  (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 1,32,097 
 4,043 
 - 
 - 
Union Liquid Fund -Direct-Growth (Units of ₹1000 each)
 - 
 - 
 82 
 990 
Total (B)
 71,130 
 46,694 
C. Debentures
Quoted
At amortised cost
 8.70%  Non cumulative debentures of GIC Housing Finance 
(Units of ₹100,000 each)
 - 
 - 
 6,500 
 6,511 
0.00% Marked linked debentures of Piramal Enterprises Limited 
(Units of ₹1,000,000 each)
 - 
 - 
 250 
 2,880 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
222
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
 Amount
0.00% Marked linked debentures of L & T Finance Limited (Units 
of ₹1,000,000 each)
 - 
 - 
 250 
 2,813 
0.00% Marked linked debentures of Shriram Transport Finance 
Company Limited (Units of ₹1,000,000 each)
 - 
 - 
 250 
 2,826 
8.64% Non cumulative debentures of Union Bank of india 
Perpetual (Units of ₹10,000,000 each)
 50 
 4,990 
 - 
 - 
 10.4% Non cumulative debentures of Navi Finserv Pvt Ltd 
(Units of ₹100,000 each)
 2,500 
 2,629 
 - 
 - 
Total (C)
 7,619 
 15,030 
D. Commercial Papers
Unquoted
At amortised cost
9% NAVI Finserv Ltd. (Units of ₹500000 each)
 - 
 - 
 500 
 2,498 
8.80% Yes Bank Limited (Units of ₹500000 each)
 - 
 - 
 700 
 3,479 
8.75% Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (Units of ₹500000 
each)
 - 
 - 
 500 
 2,491 
8.75% IIFL Securities Limited (Units of ₹500000 each)
 - 
 - 
 500 
 2,486 
9% Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited (Units of ₹500000 each)
 - 
 - 
 500 
 2,396 
9.60% Indostar Capital  Finance Ltd ((Units of ₹ 500000 each)
 500 
 2,428 
 - 
 - 
Total (D) 
 2,428 
 13,350 
Total (A+B+C+D)
 81,294
 75,284
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 7,736 
 15,240 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 7,736 
 15,240 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 73,559 
 60,044 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 - 
 - 
Refer note 45 for information about credit risk and market risk
11 	 Trade receivables
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Considered good
 65,398 
 81,182 
Significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Credit impaired
 8,967 
 7,878 
Less: Loss allowance
 (8,967)
 (7,878)
 65,398 
 81,182 
Break-up of security details
Secured, considered good
 12,452
 9,220
Unsecured, considered good
 52,946
 71,962
Credit impaired, unsecured
 8,967
 7,878
Total
 74,365
 89,060
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
223
Less: Loss allowance
 (8,967)
 (7,878)
Total trade receivables
 65,398
 81,182
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company (Gross)
 -
 -
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a 
director or a member (Gross)
 -
 -
Includes due from related parties (Gross) (refer note 43)
 11,288
 20,583
Trade receivables include ₹2681 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹2450 lakhs) for which credit risk is retained by the Company under a factoring 
arrangement and are net of ₹24,129 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹22049 lakhs) de-recognised (along with corresponding liability) on transfer 
‘without recourse’ under a factoring arrangement. Company retains interest liability upto an agreed date on the entire amount, the 
costs for which are recognised as part of finance costs.
The trade receivables includes ₹130 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹1138 lakhs) receivables against which bills are discounted. Under this 
arrangement Company has transferred the relevant receivables to the banks in exchange for cash. However, Company has retained 
late payment and credit risk. The Company therefore continues to recognize the transferred assets in entirety in its balance sheet. The 
amount repayable under the bills discounted is presented as current borrowings.
Trade receivables are generally on terms of 60 to 90 days.
Refer note 45 for information about credit risk and market risk of trade receivables.
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Ageing for gross trade receivables outstanding as at 31 March 2025 is as follows :
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than 
3 years
Undisputed trade receivables – considered good
 60,054 
 3,339 
 1,015 
 413 
 493 
 65,314 
Undisputed trade receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit impaired
 812 
 200 
 1,442 
 375 
 5,789 
 8,619 
Disputed trade receivables – considered good
 - 
 0 
 0 
 6 
 77 
 83 
Disputed trade receivables – which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed trade receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 349 
 349 
 60,867 
 3,539 
 2,457 
 794 
 6,708 
 74,365 
Less: Loss allowance
 (8,967)
Trade receivables (net)
 65,398 
Ageing for gross trade receivables outstanding as at 31 March 2024 is as follows :
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than 
3 years
Undisputed trade receivables – considered good
 71,855 
 8,142 
 480 
 529 
 176 
 81,182 
Undisputed trade receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Undisputed trade receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 65 
 1,741 
 2,592 
 2,679 
 7,077 
Disputed trade receivables – considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed trade receivables – which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed trade receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 2 
 67 
 732 
 801 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
224
 71,855 
 8,207 
 2,223 
 3,188 
 3,587 
 89,060 
Less: Loss allowance
 (7,878)
Trade receivables (net)
 81,182 
12 	 Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Cash on hand
 112
 87
Balances with Banks
- In current accounts
 24,323
 3,206
- Bank deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months
 -
 1,091
Total
 24,435
 4,384
There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and prior period.
Refer note 45 for information about credit risk and market risk
There are no cash and cash equivalents which will not be available for use by the Company.
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
13	
 Bank Balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Margin money deposits with original maturity of more than three 
months and less than twelve months *
 1,568
 997
Investments in Term deposits
 11,126
 4,914
Total
 12,694
 5,911
*Held as lien by bank against bank guarantees amounting to ₹ 1,568 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹ 997 lakhs )
There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting 
period and prior period.
Refer note 45 for information about credit risk and market risk
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
14 	 Loans (current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 (Unsecured, considered good)
Loans to related parties (refer note 43)
 7,500.00
 10,000.00
 Total
 7,500.00
 10,000.00
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company
-
 -
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a 
director or a member
 -
 -
Refer note 45 for information about credit risk and market risk
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
225
15 	 Other financial assets (current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise specified)
 Advances to related parties (refer note 43)
 1,328
 1,913
Export Benefits receivables- duty drawback (refer note below)
 359
 371
 Security deposits
 2,911
 2,816
 Less: Loss allowance
 (304)
 (304)
 Other receivables
 22
 1,441
 Total
 4,316
 6,237
Note: It represent the benefits accrued to the Company under duty drawback scheme notified by the Government of India. There is 
no unfulfilled condition under the scheme as at the reporting dates.
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
16 	 Other current assets
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 (Unsecured, Considered good)
 Export Benefits receivables (net)
 306
 327
 Balances with government authorities
 29,862
 20,688
 Claims and other receivables (net)
 99
 75
 Prepaid expenses
 719
 874
 Advance other than capital advances
Advances to suppliers
 3,471
 3,220
Advances recoverable in kind for value to be received
 492
 2,833
Other advances*
 4,820
 5,029
 Gratuity Plan Assets (refer note 41)
 810
 -
 Total
 40,579
 33,046
*includes travel advances, Quick silver redemption, shop imprest a/c.
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company
-
 -
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a 
director or a member
 -
 -
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
226
17	
Equity share capital
Particulars
As at
31 March, 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
Authorised
67,150,000 [31 March 2024: 15,150,000*] Equity Shares of ₹2 each
 1,343
 303
Total
 1,343
 303
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
6,09,23,629 [ 31 March 2024: 76,73,628** ] Equity Shares of Rs 2 each
 1,218 
 153 
 1,218 
 153 
* 	
During the previous year, the authorised share capital of the Company which comprised of 3,030,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 
each was divided into 15,150,000 shares of ₹ 2 each on 26 April 2023 post split in 1:5 ratio.
**	
Reported as at 31 March 2024 -1,49,00,000 Equity Shares, pursuant to merger of lifestyle business cancellation of old equity 
shares (refer note 53 and note 17A(a) below)
a)	
Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at 31 March, 2025
As at 31 March, 2024
Number of
shares
Amount
Number of 
shares
Amount
Equity Shares :
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 76,73,628
 153
 29,80,000
 298
Add: Shares on account of stock split *
 -
 -
 1,19,20,000
 -
Less: Cancellation of Old Equity Shares (refer note 53)
 -
 -
 (1,49,00,000)
 (298)
Add: Issue of New Equity Shares pursuant to scheme of 
arrangement (refer note 53)
 5,32,50,000
 1,065
 76,73,628
 153
Balance as at the end of the year
 6,09,23,628
 1,218
 76,73,628
 153
* 	
During the previous year, the authorised share capital of the Company which comprised of 3,030,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 
each was divided into 15,150,000 shares of ₹ 2 each on 26 April 2023 post split in 1:5 ratio.
b)	
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
	
Equity shares: The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹2 per share. Each shareholder is eligible 
for one vote per share held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders 
are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their 
shareholding.
c)	
Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
Particulars
As at 31 March, 2025
As at 31 March, 2024
%
No. of shares
%
No. of shares
(Before Scheme of Arrangement)
Ray Global Consumer Trading Ltd and its nominees 
(Amalgamated))(refer note 1 below)
 -
 -
100
 1,49,00,000
(Ater Scheme of Arrangement)
J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
38
 2,31,65,400
-
-
JK Investo Trade (India) Limited
11
 66,20,069
 -
 -
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
227
Note 1:
The Board of the Company at its meeting held on 27th April, 2023 approved the Composite Scheme of Arrangement between Raymond 
Limited and Raymond Lifestyle Limited (“RLL”) (formerly known as Raymond Consumer Care Limited) and Ray Global Consumer 
Trading Limited and their respective shareholders (“Scheme”). The Scheme inter-alia provides for: Demerger of the lifestyle business 
from Raymond Limited (“RL”) and the lifestyle business carried out through subsidiaries of RL along with its strategic investment in 
Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited (“RGCTL”) into RLL and issuance of equity shares of RLL to all the shareholders of RL through 
Composite Scheme of Arrangement (“Demerger”); andAmalgamation of RGCTL with RLL along with the consequential reduction and 
cancellation of the paid-up share capital of RLL held by Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited.
The Scheme is approved by Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal and with submission of the same with statutory authorities is 
effective from 30th June, 2024.
d)	
Shares held by Promoter’s Group at the end of the year
	
As at 31 March, 2025
Name of promoter group
 No. of shares at 
the beginning of 
the year
 Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of Total 
shares
 % changes 
during the 
year
(Promoters after Scheme of Arrangement)
Vijaypat Singhania
 -
 7,200
 7,200
0%
0%
Niharika Gautam Singhania
 -
 4,000
 4,000
0%
0%
Nawaz Singhania
 -
 2,040
 2,040
0%
0%
Nisa Gautam Singhania
 -
 400
 400
0%
0%
Gautam Hari Singhania
 -
 23
 23
0%
0%
J K Investors (Bombay) Limited
 -  2,31,65,400
 2,31,65,400
38%
38%
J K Helene Curtis Limited
 -
 28,73,640
 28,73,640
5%
5%
J K Investo Trade (India) Limited
 -
 66,20,069
 66,20,069
11%
11%
J K Sports Foundation
 -
 5,116
 5,116
0%
0%
Smt Sunitidevi Singhania Hospital Trust
 -
 5,53,196
 5,53,196
1%
1%
Polar Investments Limited
 -
 79,360
 79,360
0%
0%
 Total
 -
3,33,10,444
 3,33,10,444
55%
55%
As at 31 March, 2024
Name of promoter group
 No. of shares at 
the beginning of 
the year
 Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of Total 
shares
 % changes 
during the 
year
(Promoters before Scheme of Arrangement)
Ray Global Consumer Trading Ltd and it’s 
nominees (Amalgamated) (refer note 1 above)
 29,80,000
 (29,80,000)
 -
100%
-100%
 Total
 29,80,000
 (29,80,000)
 -
100%
-100%
Note: The issued, subscribed share capital of the Company which comprised of 29,80,000 equity shares of ₹10 each was divided into 
1,49,00,000 equity shares of ₹2 each on 26th April, 2023.
(e)	
Equity share reserved for issue under options
	
 Information relating to Employee Stock options issued, excercised and lapsed during the financial year and options outstanding 
at the end of the reporting period, is set out in Note 49.
(f)	
Equity share capital pending allotment
	
5,32,50,000 Shares issued to Raymond Limited Shareholders, four shares of the Company against five shares held in Raymond 
Limited, pursuant to the scheme of arrangements accounted for on the basis of the swap ratio determined by the company in 
the Scheme.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
228
18	
Non-current borrowings
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Secured
Debentures (refer note (ii) below)
 20,000
 20,000
Term loans from banks (refer note (i) below)
 7,952
 -
Secured - Total
 27,952
 20,000
Notes:
Current maturity of the above-mentioned borrowings is disclosed under note 20 “Current borrowings”.
Refer note 45 for information on interest risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
The Company had used the borrowing for the specific purpose for which it was availed.
There is no default in repayment of borrowings and payment of interest thereon during the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 
2024.
Refer note 35 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Nature of Security and terms of repayment:
Nature of Security
Terms of Repayment
i
Term loan from bank, balance outstanding amounting to ₹ 
10000 lakhs (31 March 2024: Nil) is secured by first pari pasu 
charge on entire fixed assets of company, both present and 
future situated at Taluka Pardi, District Valsad Plant alongwith 
existing term lenders
Repayable in 20 equal quarterly instalments starting from June 
2025 and last instalment due in March 2030. Rate of interest 
9.15% p.a. as at year end.(31st March,2024 : Nil.)
Privately Placed Non-Convertible Debentures (face value 
₹10 lakhs each)
ii.
Balance outstanding amounting to ₹ 20,000 lakhs (31 March 
2024 : ₹20,000 lakhs) is secured by first pari passu charge 
on all the pieces and parcels of land situated at Taluka Pardi, 
District Valsad and within the Registration District and Sub 
district of Valsad along with the factory building admeasuring 
96307 square meters constructed thereon together with all 
buildings,machinery,erections, furniture and fixtures,godowns 
and constructions of every description which are standing 
erected or attached to aforesaid land, both present and future.
Repayable in four equal annual instalments starting from 
February 2028 and last instalment due in February 2031. Rate 
of interest 9.00% p.a. (31 March 2024 9.00% p.a.)
Additional Fixed Deposit amounting to ₹ 20,000 lakhs is lien 
marked against non convertible debentures of ₹ 20,000 
lakhs till 21st January 2025 post which it was released (31st 
March,2024 : ₹ 20,000 lakhs)
iii.
Balance outstanding amounting to Nil (31 March 2024 :₹ 
10,000 lakhs) was secured by first pari passu charge on all the 
pieces and parcels of land situated at Taluka Pardi, District 
Valsad and within the Registration District and Sub district 
of Valsad along with the factory building admeasuring 96307 
square meters constructed thereon together with all buildings, 
machinery, erections, furniture and fixtures, godowns and 
constructions of every description which are standing erected 
or attached to aforesaid land, both present and future
Repaid in December 2024. Rate of interest 7.60% p.a. as at 
date of repayment. (31 March 2024 : 7.60% p.a.)
Amount of ₹ 48.01 lakhs (31st March , 2024: ₹ 27.66 lakhs) related to deferred expense towards processing charges is netted 
of against loans and Debentures.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
229
19	
Other non-current liabilities
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Government Grant #
 448
 613
Total
 448
 613
# Export Promotion Capital Goods (‘EPCG’) scheme allows import of certain capital goods including spares at concessional duty 
subject to an export obligation for the duty saved on capital goods imported under EPCG scheme. The duty saved on capital goods 
imported under EPCG scheme being government grant, is accounted as stated in the material accounting policy on government 
grant. The balance above represents unamortised amount of duty saved. Export obligation to be fulfilled subsequent to the reporting 
date, within the period allowed under the scheme is disclosed in note 48.
20	
Current Borrowings
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Secured
Loans repayable on demand from banks (Refer below note (ii)(a) 
below)
 60,723
 29,408
Bills discounted with bank (refer below note (ii)(b) below)
 130
 1,138
Current maturities of long-term debt (refer note 18)
 2,251
 10,648
Unsecured
Working capital loan from banks
 2,841
 2,450
 65,945
 43,644
i.	
Notes:
	
Refer note 45 for information on interest risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
	
The Company had used the borrowing for the specific purpose for which it was availed.
	
There is no default in repayment of borrowings and payment of interest thereon during the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 
March 2024.
	
Refer note 37 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the 
Company.
	
Quarterly statements of current assets filed by the Company with banks are in agreement with the books of account.
ii.	
Security
(a) 	
Loans repayable on demand from banks (includes short term loan)
	
Secured as per the consortium agreement by hypothecation of inventories, receivables , book debts and other current 
assets of the company excluding liquid investments, both present and future.
	
The applicable rate of interest is 1 month MIBOR, 3 months T-Bill or overnight MIBOR + spread of 0.6%. Effective interest 
rate ranges from 6.83% to 11.05% p.a. (31 March 2024: 7.00% to 9.45% p.a.).
(b) 	
Bills discounted with bank
	
Bill Discounting facility is secured against book debts, receivables, Claims and bills discounted under this facility
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
230
21	
Trade payables (Current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises (refer note below)
 10,412
 14,260
Dues to creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises *
 1,02,340
 92,049
Total
 1,12,752
 1,06,309
Includes due to related parties (refer note 43)
*Includes ₹26,644 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹ 22,805 lakhs) based on assignment of the dues as per the guidelines issued by RBI under 
the Trade Receivables Discounting System for MSMEs.
Notes :
Trade payables are generally non-interest bearing and are normally settled within 30 to 90 days.
Refer note 45 for information about liquidity risk and market risk of trade payables.
Note :
Details of dues to micro and small enterprises as defined under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development 
(MSMED) Act, 2006
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
(1)	 The principal amount and the interest due 
thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as 
at the end of each accounting year.
a)	
Principal
b)	
Interest
 10,412
178
 14,260
198
(2)	 The amount of interest paid by the buyer in 
terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amount of the payment made 
to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during the year.
a)	
Principal
b)	
Interest
 -
-
 -
-
(3)	 The amount of interest due and payable 
for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the 
appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the 
MSMED Act, 2006.
-
-
(4)	 The amount of interest accrued and 
remaining unpaid at the end of the year
a)	
Principal
b)	
Interest
 -
-
 -
-
(5)	 The amount of further interest remaining 
due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest 
dues as above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance 
as a deductible expenditure under Section 
23 of the MSMED Act, 2006.
-
-
Disclosure of payable to vendors as defined under the “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006” is based on the 
information available with the Company regarding the status of registration of such vendors under the said Act, as per the intimation 
received from them on requests made by the Company. There are no material overdue principal amounts to such vendors at the 
Balance Sheet date. This information relied upon by statutory auditors.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
231
Trade Payable ageing as at 31st March 2025 (outstanding from due date of payment)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date 
of payment
 Total
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Micro enterprises and small enterprises ('MSME')
 10,219
 124
 22
 47
 10,412
Other than MSME
1,00,106
 601
 367
 1,266
 1,02,340
Disputed dues - MSME
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Disputed dues - Other than MSME
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
1,10,325
 725
 389
 1,313
 1,12,752
Trade Payable ageing as at 31st March 2024 (outstanding from due date of payment)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date 
of payment
 Total
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
MSME
14,153
 24
 10
 73
 14,260
Other than MSME
88,819
 1,868
 616
 746
 92,049
Disputed dues - MSME
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Disputed dues - Other than MSME
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
1,02,972
 1,891
 626
 820
 1,06,309
22	
Other financial liabilities (current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Derivatives
Financial instruments at FVTPL
 76
 62
Others
Deposits from dealers and agents
 24,581
 22,597
Unclaimed fractional shares*
 103
 -
Book Overdraft
 110
 11
Payable to Related parties (refer note 43)
 -
 22
Employee related payables
 8,112
 8,779
Capital creditors
 518
 401
Other payables
 164
 202
 33,664
 32,074
* No amounts are due to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund under section 125 of the Act
23	
Other Current liabilities
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Advances
 Advances received from customers
 3,716
 3,443
Others
 Statutory dues
 4,416
 2,643
 Government grant (refer note 48)
 169
 173
 Other payables*
 624
 767
Customer loyalty programme
 932
 1,208
 9,857
 8,234
*Includes Credit balance of receivables, etc.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
232
24	
Provisions (Current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Provision for employee benefits (refer note 41)
-	
Gratuity
 -
 350
-	
Leave Entitlement
 3,472
 3,261
Provision for litigation/dispute (refer note below)
 585
 585
Current total
 4,057
 4,196
Note: Provision for litigation/dispute represents disputed liability of the Company towards excise duty post removal of goods from 
place of manufacture that are expected to materialise.
25	
Revenue from Operations
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Sale of Products
(i)	
Manufactured goods
 1,95,059
 2,29,618
(ii)	 Stock-in-trade
 2,67,410
 2,72,087
Sale of Services
(i)	
Income from tailoring service
 2,956
 2,672
(ii)	 Income from loyalty participation program
 834
 745
Other operating revenue
(i)	
Export Incentives, etc.
 1,018
 1,118
(ii)	 Process waste sale
 851
 1,119
Total
 4,68,128
 5,07,359
Performance obligation
The performance obligation of Company is satisfied at a point in time.
Revenue recognition
Revenue recognition for sale of services is recognised at a point in time and revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of the performance 
obligation.
The tables below present disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers by customer location. Company believes this 
disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are affected by industry, 
market and other economic factors.
(a)	
Disaggregation of revenue by geographical region
 - India
4,42,922
4,83,255
 - Outside India
25,206
24,104
4,68,128
5,07,359
(b)	
Timing of revenue recognition
Revenue recognition at a point in time
 4,68,128
 5,07,359
Revenue recognition over period of time
 -
 -
4,68,128
5,07,359
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
233
(c)	
Reconciliation between the contract price and revenue from contracts with customers
Contract Price
 4,83,761
 5,29,473
Less:-
Bonus, Incentives, discount and others
 14,153
 17,391
Customer loyalty programme
 1,278
 1,369
Sales returns and others
 202
 3,354
4,68,128
5,07,359
(d)	
Outstanding balance of trade receivables
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Trade receivables (net)
65,398
81,182
(e)	
Changes in contract liabilities (Customer loyalty programme) (refer note 23)
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,208
 -
Net revenue recognised that was included in the balance at the 
beginning of the year
(1208)
 -
Net invoicing during the year, excluding amounts recognised as 
revenue during the year
 932
 1,208
Balance at the end of the year
932
 1,208
(f)	
Remaining performance obligation
	
As at 31 March 2025, the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations is
Rs. 932 lakhs (31 March 2024: Rs. 1,208 lakhs) of which approximately 100% (31 March 2024: 100%) is expected to be 
recognised as revenue within one year.
(g) 	
The Company does not have any significant obligations for returns and refunds.
(h) 	
Contracts do not have a significant financing component.
26	
Other Income
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Interest income under the EIR method
on debentures and commercial papers
 712
 1,363
Interest income
on bank deposits and margin deposits
 223
 141
on security deposits
 39
 35
on loan to related parties
 1,247
 806
on others *
 4,923
 7,336
Other non-operating income
Dividend income on equity securities at FVTPL
-
-
Rental income on investment properties
 181
 182
Corporate facility income
 1,623
 -
Other non-operating income#
 982
 4,253
Apportioned income from Government Grant
 169
 170
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
234
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Gain on sale of investment (net)
 798
 682
Financial assets at FVTPL - net change in fair value - held for 
trading/ others
 1,487
 431
Net profit on PPE
 -
 61
Net gain on foreign currency transactions and translations
 63
 335
Provisions no longer required reversed/ written back
 383
 -
Gain on extinguishment of lease liabilities (refer note 40)
 283
 247
Total
 13,112
 16,043
* includes income from interest on delayed payments, interest on non convertible debentures, interest on income tax and others
# includes income from sale of scrap and others
27	
Cost of materials consumed
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Opening inventories
 6,882
 52
Add : Transfer on account of Merger
 -
 7,109
Add : Purchases
 53,817
 73,155
Less : Sales (disposals)
 42
 52
Less : Closing inventories
 5,387
 6,881
Total
 55,270
 73,383
28	
Purchases of stock-in-trade
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Garments
 6,594
 10,204
Shirting
 36,176
 45,645
Suiting Fabrics
 20,779
 18,898
Apparel
 86,033
 90,605
Others
 8,830
 3,646
Total
 1,58,412
 1,68,998
29	
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Opening inventories
Finished goods
 30,781
 432
Work-in-progress
 15,853
 92
Stock-in-trade
 76,166
 148
 1,22,800
 672
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
235
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Transfer on account of Merger (Lifestyle Business) (refer note 53)
Finished goods
 -
 28,919
Work-in-progress
 -
 16,468
Stock-in-trade
 -
 66,713
 -
 1,12,100
Closing inventories
Finished goods
 29,663
 30,781
Work-in-progress
 16,870
 15,853
Stock-in-trade
 79,661
 76,166
 1,26,194
 1,22,800
Total
 (3,394)
 (10,028)
30	
Employee benefits expense
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Salaries, wages and bonus
 52,597
 52,549
Contribution to provident funds and other funds (refer note 41)
 3,818
 3,475
Staff welfare expenses
 2,749
 2,835
Employee Stock Option (reversal)/expense (refer note 49)
 (36)
 710
Total
 59,128
 59,570
31	
Finance costs
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Interest expense on debentures and term Loans
 2,400
 4,864
Interest expense on others 
 8,486
 7,239
Interest on lease liability (refer note 40)
 7,431
 4,861
Other borrowing costs
 -
 181
Total
 18,317
 17,145
32	
Depreciation and amortization expense
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Depreciation and amortisation of PPE (refer note no 2A)
 10,295
 7,756
Depreciation on investment properties (refer note no 3)
 7
 7
Depreciation of ROU assets (refer note no 2A)
 15,331
 11,081
Amortisation on intangible assets (refer note no 4A)
 35
 4
Total
 25,668
 18,848
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
236
33 A	Manufacturing and operating costs
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Consumption of stores and spare
 16,476
 18,494
Power and fuel
 12,252
 12,789
Job work charges
 10,225
 12,147
Repairs to buildings
 987
 523
Repairs to machinery
 1,129
 1,126
Other manufacturing and operating expenses
 11,361
 3,850
Total
 52,430
 48,929
33 B	Other expenses
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Rent (Refer note 40)
 2,044 
 1,156 
Insurance (net of insurance claim received)
 353 
 18 
Repairs and maintenance
 7,916 
 3,802 
Rates and taxes
 309 
 200 
Advertisement
 17,973 
 18,127 
Commission to selling agents
 12,698 
 14,809 
Freight and octroi charges
 3,033 
 3,209 
Legal and professional fees
 6,150 
 6,012 
Auditor's remuneration (refer note below)
 161 
 157 
Travelling and conveyance
 8,411 
 8,152 
Sales promotion expenses
 10,570 
 6,841 
Corporate social responsibility expenditure (refer note 52)
 179 
 47 
Donation to charitable trusts
 1,710 
 252 
Commission to non executive directors (refer note 43)
 - 
 3 
Bad debts
 389 
 - 
Provision for expected credit loss
 1,440 
Less: Provision reversed
 (351)
 1,089 
 891 
Net Loss on sale of investments
 - 
 14 
Loss on sale of PPE
 205 
 - 
Outsourced support services
 12,843 
 9,528 
IT outsourced support services
 1,497 
 1,483 
Electricity charges of stores, offices and others
 2,469 
 1,890 
Security charges
 1,217 
 703 
Material handling expenses
 2,891 
 3,433 
Miscellaneous expenses #
 15,557 
 12,858 
Total
 1,09,664 
 93,586 
# Includes bank charges, communication charges, printing stationery, software charges and warehouse charges
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
237
Auditor’s remuneration (excluding goods and services tax)
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
As auditors :
Audit fee and limited review fees (including consolidation)
 130
 99
In other capacity:
Other services (certification fees)
 26
 38
Reimbursement of expenses
 6
 10
Erstwhile auditor
 -
 10
Total
 161
 157
34	
Exceptional Items - loss
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
VRS & Other charges (Textile)
 456
 919
Stamp duty on demerger (Unallocable)
 5,772
 -
Total
 6,228
 919
35	
Income taxes
Income tax expense on profit or loss consists of:
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - refer note 53)
Current tax:
Current tax on profits for the year
Continuing operations
 -
 12,658 
Discontinued operations
 -
 37,137 
Earlier years
 628
 - 
 628
 49,795 
Deferred tax:
In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
Continuing operations
 (211)
 164 
Discontinued operations
 - 
 13,560 
 (211)
 13,724 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
238
Income tax on OCI
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
(Restated - refer note 53)
Deferred tax:
Current tax on profits for the year
Continuing operations
 374
 98
Discontinued operations
 -
 -
 374
 98
A) 	
Reconciliation of the income tax expenses to the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to the 
profit / (loss) before income taxes is summarized below:
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Applicable Indian statutory income tax rate (in %)
25.17%
25.17%
Accounting profit/(loss) before income tax
 (483)
 52,052 
Computed expected tax expense
 (121)
 13,101 
Tax effect of amount which are not (taxable)/ deductible in 
calculating taxable income
Deduction under section 24 of the Income-tax Act, 1961
 (12)
 (28)
Permanent disallowances
 556 
 40 
Other items 
 (5)
 (291)
Tax expense reported in the standalone statement of profit and 
loss
 417 
 12,822 
B) 	
Movement in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
Particulars
 Balance as at
01 April 2023 
 Transfer from 
Raymond Limited 
(Lifestyle undertaking) 
 Recognised 
in
profit or loss 
 Recognised 
in OCI 
Balance as at
31 March 
2024 
Recognised in
profit or loss 
 Recognised 
in OCI 
 Balance as at
31 March 
2025 
 Loss allowance 
 435 
 2,214 
 (211)
 - 
 2,437 
 274 
 - 
 2,712 
 Provision for replacement 
 894 
 - 
 (894)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Timing difference between 
book depreciation and 
depreciation as per the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 
 (12)
 - 
 149 
 - 
 137 
 3 
 - 
 140 
Depreciation on fair valuation 
of PPE 
 - 
 (7,587)
 236 
 - 
 (7,351)
 1,131 
 - 
 (6,220)
 VRS paid 
 - 
 160 
 132 
 - 
 292 
 (8)
 - 
 284 
 Amortisation of transaction 
cost and MTM derivative 
 - 
 - 
 235 
 - 
 235 
 (9)
 - 
 225 
 Business losses and 
unabsorbed depreciation 
 - 
 0 
 (0)
 - 
 - 
 26,038 
 (374)
 25,664 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
239
Particulars
 Balance as at
01 April 2023 
 Transfer from 
Raymond Limited 
(Lifestyle undertaking) 
 Recognised 
in
profit or loss 
 Recognised 
in OCI 
Balance as at
31 March 
2024 
Recognised in
profit or loss 
 Recognised 
in OCI 
 Balance as at
31 March 
2025 
 Expenses allowed in the year 
of payment (MSME) 
 - 
 - 
 302 
 - 
 302 
 287 
 - 
 589 
 Expenses allowed in the year 
of payment 
 134 
 - 
 670 
 (98)
 706 
 77 
 - 
 783 
 ESOP Expenses 
 - 
 - 
 229 
 - 
 229 
 (9)
 - 
 220 
 Merger Expenses 
 - 
 - 
 5 
 - 
 5 
 1,158 
 - 
 1,163 
 FMV on Investments 
 - 
 - 
 (20)
 - 
 (20)
 (374)
 - 
 (394)
 Adjustments on account of 
IND AS 116 
 - 
 1,222 
 215 
 - 
 1,437 
 746 
 - 
 2,183 
 Capital loss on sale of 
investments 
 - 
 14,087 
 (14,087)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Fai valuation of Intangibles as 
per Accounting Standard 
 - 
 1,16,394 
 - 
 - 
 1,16,394 
 (29,101)
 - 
 87,293 
 Fair value gains/losses and 
others 
 172 
 921 
 (683)
 - 
 410 
 (2)
 - 
 408 
 Total 
 1,624 
 1,27,410 
 (13,724)
 (98)
 1,15,211 
 211 
 (374)
 1,15,049 
The Company offsets tax assets and tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off tax assets and tax liabilities 
and entity’s intention is to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously, and deferred tax assets 
and deferred tax liabilities relate to the income taxes levied by the same tax authorities.
Note 36:	 Earning per share (‘EPS’)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders of the 
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period.
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders of 
the Company and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period, are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive 
potential equity shares.
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
The components of basic and diluted EPS are as follows:
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (basic) - 
Continuing operations
 (900)
 39,230
Weighted average number (in absolute numbers) of equity shares 
outstanding during the year - Basic
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Basic earnings per share (₹)- Continuing operations
 (1.48)
 64.39
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (diluted) - 
Continuing operations
 (900)
 39,230
Weighted average number (in absolute numbers) of equity shares 
outstanding during the year - Diluted
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Diluted earnings per share (₹)*- Continuing operations
 (1.48)
 64.39
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (basic) - 
Discontinued operations (refer note 53)
 -
 2,16,520
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
240
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Weighted average number (in absolute numbers) of equity shares 
outstanding during the year - Basic
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Basic earnings per share (₹)- Discontinued operations
 -
 355.40
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (basic) - 
Discontinued operations (refer note 53)
 -
 2,16,520
Weighted average number (in absolute numbers) of equity shares 
outstanding during the year - Diluted
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Diluted earnings per share (₹)- Discontinued operations
 -
 355.40
Net (loss)/ profit attributable to the equity shareholders -Continuing 
and Discontinued operations
 (900)
 2,55,750
Weighted average number (in absolute numbers) of equity shares 
outstanding during the year - Basic
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Basic earnings per share (₹)
 (1.48)
 419.79
Net (loss)/ profit attributable to the equity shareholders -Continuing 
and Discontinued operations
 (900)
 2,55,750
Weighted average number (in absolute numbers) of equity shares 
outstanding during the year - Diluted
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Diluted earnings per share (₹)*
 (1.48)
 419.79
*The effect of potential equity shares outstanding as at 31 March 2025 is anti-dilutive. However, such impact cannot be measured 
with reasonable certainty as number of stock options to be issued by the Company under the proposed Employee Stock Option Plan 
of the Company, to be implemented in due course to substitute the Employee Stock Option Plan of Raymond Limited (the ‘Demerged 
Company’) pursuant to the scheme of demerger (refer note 53) cannot be currently determined
Note: The average market value of the Company’s equity shares for the purpose of calculating the dilutive effect of share options was 
based on quoted market prices for the year during which the options were outstanding.
Note 37:	 Assets Pledged as security
The carrying amounts of assets Pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Current assets
Trade receivables
 64,355 
 80,440 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 11,708 
 5,111 
Loans
 7,500 
 10,000 
Other financial assets
 4,306 
 5,529 
Inventories
 1,36,037 
 1,34,758 
Other current assets
 40,049 
 32,941 
Total Current assets Pledged as security
 2,63,955 
 2,68,779 
Non-current assets
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
241
Margin money and term deposits
 1,037 
 2 
Freehold land
 9,652 
 9,652 
Building
 9,961 
 10,510 
Furniture and fixtures
 138 
 183 
Plant and equipment
 15,545 
 16,726 
Others PPE
 21 
 36 
 36,354 
 37,109 
Total assets Pledged as security
 3,00,310 
 3,05,888 
Note 38:	 Contingent liabilities
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Contingent Liabilities
(a)	 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts in 
respect of other divisions.
Sales tax
 853
 843
Goods and services tax (refer note (1))
 9,296
 4,799
Compensation for premises
 40
 40
Electricity duty
 673
 673
Water charges
 288
 248
Other matters (service tax, labour laws, Civil matters and interest 
claims)
 261
 257
 11,411
 6,860
(b)	 Other money for which the Company is contingently liable in 
respect of disputed demands for matters under appeal with
(i)	
Income-tax authorities (Interest thereon not ascertainable at 
present)
 4,497
 4,419
(ii)	 Excise/ custom duty
	
(It represents demands raised by relevant authorities on various 
grounds, which are contested by the Company)
 2,987
 2,987
(c)	 Provident Fund
 Amount not determinable
 Amount not determinable
	
The Honourable Supreme Court, had passed a judgement on 
28 February 2019 in relation to inclusion of certain allowances 
within the scope of “Basic wages” for the purpose of determining 
contribution to provident fund under the Employees’ Provident 
Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The management, 
based on legal advice, is of the view that the applicability of the 
judgement to the Company, with respect to the period and the 
nature of allowances to be covered due to interpretation challenges, 
and resultant impact on the past provident fund liability, cannot be 
reasonably ascertained.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
242
Notes:
1. 	 The Company has received investigation report under Rule 129 of the Central Goods And Service Tax Rules, 2017 dated 24 
September 2019 on 23 October 2019 from Director General of Anti Profiteering, which alleges that the Company has profiteered 
₹ 1,848 lakhs for the period 15 November 2017 to 31 December 2018 by not passing the benefit of GST rate reduction from 
28% to 18% w.e.f. 15 November 2017. Further, the Company received an order dated 11 May 2020 with respect to the above.
The Company filed a writ petition with Delhi High Court against the aforesaid order on 11 August 2020. The Company 
has deposited profiteered amount of ₹ 1,566 lakhs under protest vide Delhi High Court order dated 12 February 2021.
In the assessment of the management, which is supported by legal advice, the Company believes that they have passed on 
the benefit of relevant price reductions to its customers and considering this, aforesaid matter is not likely to have significant 
impact and accordingly, no provision has been considered in the financial statements and the amount of ₹ 1,848 lakhs has been 
disclosed as contingent liability.
2. 	 The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has initiated an investigation into alleged cartelisation between manufacturers of 
male latex condoms in government tenders for the period 2010-2013 in June 2015. The Company has submitted documents 
required by investigating agency and is awaiting its report.
3. 	 The Company is contesting all of the above demands and the management believes that its positions are likely to be upheld. No 
expense has been accrued in the standalone financial statements for the aforesaid demands. The management believes that the 
ultimate outcome of these proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position 
and results of operations and hence no provision has been made in this regard.
4. 	 It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timings of cash outflows, if any, in respect of the above, pending resolution 
of the respective proceedings.
5.	
 The amounts disclosed above represent the best possible estimates arrived at on the basis of available information.
6. 	 The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
7. 	 Amount outstanding as at balance sheet date represents gross demand raised by the tax authorities, as amount paid under 
protest is not charged to the standalone statement of profit and loss by the Company.”
Note 39:	 Commitments
i) Capital Commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not recognised as liabilities is as follows:
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Property, plant and equipment
 2,498
 2,390
Less: Capital advances and CWIP
 (491)
 (203)
 Net Capital commitments
 2,007
 2,187
ii) EPCG Commitments
Future export obligations / commitments under import of Capital Goods at Concessional rate of customs duty. As at 31 March 2025 
₹ 10332.29 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹ 10227.90 lakhs)
iii) Corporate guarantee
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
On account of corporate guarantee to the bankers on behalf of 
subsidiaries for facilities availed by them (amount outstanding at close 
of the year). (Includes ₹3792 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹ 3771 lakhs) given 
as short fall undertaking)
 4,591
 4,530
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
243
iv) Financial guarantee
(₹ in lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
The company has issued following financial guarantees which are as 
under:
Guarantees issued by banks on behalf of the company to:
i. Maharashtra State Electricity Board
142
70
ii. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
10
5
152
75
Note: 40 Ind As 116 Leases
The Company’s lease asset primarily consist of leases for land (reclassified) and for buildings (premises) for retail stores and 
warehouses having various lease terms.
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in note 45 (c)
The Company has recognised ₹ 2044 Lakhs (31 March 2024, ₹ 1156 Lakhs) as rent expenses during the year which pertains to short-
term leases / low value assets (refer note 33 B)
The incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities is 8.50% (31 March 2024: 8.50%)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Carrying amount of ROU assets
Land
 11,795
 11,801
Buildings
 93,950
 11,795
Lease Liabilities
Non Current
 87,936
 60,760
Current
 12,963
 10,101
 1,00,899
 70,861
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Depreciation of ROU assets
 15,331
 11,081
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 7,431
 4,861
Expense relating to short term leases
 2,044
 1,156
Total cash outflow for leases (including interest)
 (19,515)
 (13,513)
Additions to the right of use assets during the current financial year
 45,336
 77,807
The table below provides details regarding lease rentals payable (minimum lease payments) under these non-cancellable leases are 
as follows:
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Less than 1 year
 20,886
 15,571
1-5 year
 69,317
 47,691
More than 5 year
 46,638
 31,911
Total
 1,36,841
 95,173
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
244
Note: 41	 Post retirement benefit plans
(a) 	 Defined contribution plan - The following amount is recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss for the year 
ended:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Contribution to provident fund
2,879
 2,749
Contribution to superannuation fund
159
 201
Contribution to employees' state insurance
 -
 8
Contribution to labour welfare fund
 -
 2
	
	Above amounts have been included in the line item “Contribution to provident fund and other funds” in note 28. Also, the 
contribution of the Company is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual or constructive obligation.
(b)	
Defined benefit plan
(i)	
	 Gratuity
	
	 Under the gratuity plan, every employees who have completed at least five years of service gets a gratuity on departure 
at 15 days of last drawn salary for each completed year of service. This defined benefit plan is governed by The Payment 
of Gratuity Act, 1972. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to Raymond Limited 
Employees Gratuity Fund and other recognised funds in India. Each year, the Board of Trustees reviews the level of funding 
in the gratuity plan. Such a review includes the asset-liability matching strategy and investment risk management policy. 
This includes employing the use of annuities and longevity swaps to manage the risks.
Amount recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss in respect of defined benefit plans is as follows:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Current service cost
 755
 673
Interest expense (net)
 25
 64
Employee benefit expense recognised in profit or loss
 780
 737
Actuarial loss/ (gain) transferred to OCI
Actuarial (gain) due to experience adjustment
200
 (302)
Actuarial (gain)/ loss due to change in financial assumptions
 (1,576)
 273
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 (109)
 (359)
Net actuarial (gain) recognised in OCI
 (1,485)
 (388)
Amount recognised in the standalone balance sheet * in respect of defined benefit plans is as follows:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Present value of defined benefit obligation ('DBO')
Gratuity
 14,729
 14,393
Plan assets
Gratuity
 15,539
 14,043
Net (asset)/ liability recognised in standalone balance sheet
 (811)
 350
Bifurcation of defined benefit obligation:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Gratuity
Current
 (811)
 421
Non-current
 -
 -
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
245
Movements in plan assets and DBO are as follows:
Gratuity
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Plan 
assets
DBO
Net
Plan 
assets
DBO
Net
Opening balance
 14,043 
 14,393 
 350 
 12,629 
 13,481 
 853 
Current service cost
 - 
 755 
 755 
 - 
 673 
 673 
Interest (income)/ cost
 (1,058)
 1,083 
 25 
 (943)
 1,007 
 64 
Employee benefit expense recognised in profit 
or loss
 (1,058)
 1,837 
 780 
 (943)
 1,680 
 737 
Transfer in of assets and liabilities
 631 
 624 
 (7)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gain)/ loss due to change in financial 
assumptions
 - 
 (1,576)
 (1,576)
 - 
 273 
 273 
Actuarial (gain) due to experience adjustment
 - 
 200 
 200 
 - 
 (302)
 (302)
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 109 
 - 
 (109)
 359 
 - 
 (359)
Net actuarial (gain) recognised in OCI
 740 
 (752)
 (1,493)
 359 
 (29)
 (388)
Employer's contribution
 421 
 - 
 (421)
 787 
 (65)
 (852)
Benefits paid
 (722)
 (749)
 (27)
 (674)
 (674)
 - 
Closing balance
 15,539 
 14,729 
 (811)
 14,043 
 14,393 
 350 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plans is 8 years (2022-23: 9 years) for gratuity.
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Gratuity
Unquoted
Insurer managed funds
 15,539
 14,043
 15,539
 14,043
Following are the principal assumptions used as at the balance sheet date:
Gratuity
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Discount rate (% per annum)
6.78%
7.21%
Salary growth rate (% per annum)
5.00%
7.00%
Attrition rate (% per annum)
3.00%
3.00%
Retirement age (in years)
58 to 65
58 to 65
Average future service (in years)
11
11
Mortality rate
Published rates under 
the Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) Urban
Published rates under 
the Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) Urban
These assumptions were developed by the management with the assistance of independent actuarial appraiser. Discount factors 
are determined close to each year end by reference to government bonds of relevant economic markets and that have terms to 
maturity approximating to the terms of the related obligation. Other assumptions are based on management’s historical experience. 
The estimates of future salary growth rate considered in actuarial valuation take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
246
Risk:
Factor
Impact
Salary increase
Actual salary increases will increase the obligation. Increase in 
salary increase rate assumption in future valuations will also 
increase the obligation.
Discount rate
Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can 
increase the obligation.
Mortality and disability
Actual deaths and disability cases proving lower or higher than 
assumed in the valuation can impact the obligation.
Withdrawals
Actual withdrawals proving higher or lower than assumed 
withdrawals and change of withdrawal rates at subsequent 
valuations can impact the obligation.
Sensitivity analysis:
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, salary growth rate and 
attrition rate. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant. The results of the sensitivity analysis is 
given below:
Gratuity
Increase in assumption
Decrease in assumption
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Discount rate ( - /+ 50 bps)
 (469)
 (517)
 498
 551
Salary growth rate ( - /+ 50 bps)
 483
 526
 (461)
 (499)
Attrition rate ( - /+ 50 bps)
 60
 8
 (63)
 (9)
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be a representation of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is 
unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be related to each 
other. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous 
period.
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation on an undiscounted basis:
Gratuity
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
One year
 1,222
 940
Two to five years
 5,533
 4,598
Six years and above
 18,696
 22,392
(c)	
Compensated absences
	
The leave obligations cover the Company’s liability for sick and earned leave. Leave encashment is payable to the eligible 
employees on separation from the entity due to death, retirement, superannuation or resignation. All eligible employees are 
entitled to avail leave while serving in the entity. Accumulating paid absences may be either vesting (in other words, employees 
are entitled to a cash payment for unused entitlement on superannuation or resignation or retirement) or non-vesting (when 
employees are not entitled to a cash payment for unused entitlement on superannuation or resignation or retirement). An 
obligation arises as employees render service that increases their entitlement to future paid absences. The obligation exists, 
and is recognised, even if the paid absences are non-vesting, although the possibility that employees may leave before they use 
an accumulated non-vesting entitlement affects the measurement of that obligation.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
247
	
Following are the principal assumptions used as at the balance sheet date:
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Discount rate (% per annum)
6.78%
7.47%
Salary growth rate (% per annum)
5.00%
7.00%
	
Bifurcation of provision for compensated absences *
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Current
 3,566
 3,261
Non-current
 -
 -
	
* Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations, hence the liability is classified 
as ‘current’.
(d)	
 Defined contribution plans
	
	The Company also has certain defined contribution plans such as provident fund and super annuation plan for benefits of 
employees. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at the rate of 12% of basic salary as per regulations. 
The contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by the Government. The obligation of the Company is 
limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. The expense recognised 
during the period towards defined contribution plan is Rs. 277 lakhs (31 March 2024 - Rs. 1,816 lakhs).
Note 42: The Company has presented data related to its segments in its consolidated financial statements. No disclosures regarding 
segments are therefore presented in these standalone financial statements.
Note: 43 Disclosure in respect of material transactions in accordance with para 24 of Ind AS 24, ‘Related Party Disclosures’
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest %
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
1
Relationships :
(a)
Subsidiary Companies :
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
India
100
75.69*
Celebrations Apparel Limited
India
100
100*
Ray Global Consumer Products Limited
India
100
100*
Silver Spark Apparel Limited
India
100
100*
Silver Spark Apparel Limited and its Step-
subsidiaries
a.	
R & A Logistics Inc.
USA
100
100*
b.	
Silver Spark Middle East (FZE)
Dubai
100
100*
c.	
Silver Spark Apparel Ethiopia PLC
Ethiopia
100
100*
d.	
Raymond America Apparel Inc.
	
(w.e.f 25 April, 2023)
USA
100
100*
Jaykayorg SA
Switzerland
100
100*
Raymond (Europe) Limited
England
100
100*
Raymond Apparel Limited (till 28 March, 2024) 
India
 -
 -*
Ultrashore Realty Limited (Formerly, Colorplus 
Realty Limited) (till 29 March, 2024) 
India
 -
 -*
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
248
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest %
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
*Transferred from Raymond Limited on account of Merger (Lifestyle Business) (refer note no 53)
(b)
Other Significant influences (with whom 
transactions have taken place):
J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
India
Singhania Education Services Limited
India
Singhania Education Limited
India
Raymond Limited
India
Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
India
Everblue Apparel Limited
India
Ring Plus Aqua Limited
India
JK Files & Engineering Limited
India
JK Talabot Limited
India
Maini Precision Products Limited
India
Ten X Realty Limited
India
J.K. Maini Global Aerospace Limited
India
Raymond Limited Employees Provident Fund
India
Raymond Limited Employees Gratuity Fund
India
(c)
Key Management Personnel (with whom 
transactions have taken place):
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
Executive Chairman
Mr. Sunil Kataria (w.e.f. July 1, 2024 upto March 31, 
2025)
Managing Director
Mrs. Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
Mr. Sameer Shah
CFO
(d)
Relatives of Key Management Personnel (with 
whom transactions have taken place):
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania
Non Executive 
Director
(e)
Non executive directors and Independent 
directors and enterprises over which they are 
able to exercise significant influence (with 
whom transactions have taken place):
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Director
Mr. Kummamuri Narasimha Murthy
Independent 
Director
Mr. Veneet Nayar
Independent 
Director
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
Independent 
Director
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
Independent 
Director
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
249
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest %
31 March, 2025
31 March, 2024
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Independent 
Director
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
Independent 
Director
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal (resigned w.e.f. 11 April 2025)
Non Executive 
Director
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada (from 27 March 2024 upto 16 
July 2024)
Independent 
Director
2 	
Transactions carried out and outstanding positions with related parties referred in 1 above, in ordinary course of 
business:
 Nature of transactions
 Related Parties
Particulars
 Referred in 
1(a) above
 Referred in 
1(b) above
 Referred in 
1(c) above
 Referred in 
1(d) above
 Referred in 
1(e) above
Purchases
Goods and Materials (net)
 6,533
 35,250
 -
 -
 -
 (5,996)
 (43,656)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Purchase Return
-
 48
-
-
-
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
DEPB Certificates
 70
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (304)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Sales
Goods, Materials and Services (net)
 18,977
 15
 -
 -
 -
 (21,178)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Expenses
Rent and other service charges
 43
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (43)
 (-)
 (-)
( -)
 (-)
 Job work charges
 703
 879
 -
 -
 -
 (759)
 (1,419)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Commission to selling agent
 1,039
 725
 -
 -
 -
 (1,116)
 (994)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Employee benefits expense #
 -
 -
 601
 -
 -
 (-)
 (-)
 (424)
 (-)
 (-)
Deputation of staff
 44
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (247)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Interest paid
 -
 18
 -
 -
 -
 (-)
 (38)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 Directors Professional Fees
-
-
-
-
 50
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
250
 Nature of transactions
 Related Parties
Particulars
 Referred in 
1(a) above
 Referred in 
1(b) above
 Referred in 
1(c) above
 Referred in 
1(d) above
 Referred in 
1(e) above
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission
 -
 -
 5
 -
 73
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (66)
Other Reimbursements
 150
 1,029
 -
 -
 9
 (86)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Paid to Trust - Employees Provident Fund
 -
 569
 -
 -
 -
Contribution
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Paid to Trust- Employees Gratuity Fund
 -
 421
 -
 -
 -
Contribution
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Income
Rent and other service charges
 180
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (180)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Corporate Facility
 1,623
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,574)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Interest
 1,247
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (806)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Other Receipts
Deputation of staff
 -
 83
 -
 -
 -
 (-)
 (43)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Other reimbursements
 806
 1,282
 -
 -
 -
 (568)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Finance
Loans and Advances given
 10,000
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (10,000)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Loans and Advances repaid
 6,875
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Deposits
Security deposit received/ adjustment
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (21)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Security deposit Paid
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (-)
 (300)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
251
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Outstandings
 Guarantees given to bank
 Subsidiaries
 Beginning of the year
 5,222
 14,996
 Addition/Adjustment during the year
 165
 92
 Withdrawn
 -
 9,866
 End of the year
 5,387
 5,222
 Payable (Trade Payables and Other Liabilities)
 Subsidiaries
 4,206
 3,932
 Other significant influences
 7,500
 10,024
 Independent Directors
 8
 -
 End of the year
 11,714
 13,956
 Trade Receivable
 Subsidiaries
 11,287
 20,583
 Other significant influences
 1
 -
 End of the year
 11,288
 20,583
 Security deposit payable
 Other significant influences
 Beginning of the year
 224
 489
 Interest charged during the year
 -
 35
 Paid during the year
 -
 300
 End of the year
 224
 224
 Loans and advance /ICD
 Subsidiaries
 Non current
 5,625
 -
 Current
 7,500
 10,000
 Beginning of the year
 10,000
 10,000
 Loans advanced
 10,000
 -
 Interest charged during the year
 1,247
 806
 Loan repayments received
 6,875
 -
 Interest received during the year
 1,247
 806
 End of the year
 13,125
 10,000
 Other Receivable
Subsidiaries
 406
 2,434
Other significant influence
 922
 199
End of the year
 1,328
 2,633
 Property Deposit Receivable
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
252
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Subsidiaries
 Beginning of the year
 -
 21
 Paid during the year
 -
 -
 Received during the year
 -
 21
 End of the year
 -
 -
Other significant influence
 Beginning of the year
 1
 1
 Paid during the year
 -
 -
 Interest charged during the year
 -
 -
 Received during the year
 -
 -
 End of the year
 1
 1
Previous years figures are in brackets
Also refer note 5(i)
Notes :
 1) 	
The Company has agreed with the lenders (Banks) of some of the subsidiaries for not disposing off Company’s investments in 
such Subsidiaries without their prior consent.
 2) 	
Equity (or equity like) investments by the Company and equity (or equity like) infusion into the Company are not considered 
for disclosure under closing balances as these are not considered “outstanding” exposure. refer note 5 and 17A & 17B for the 
same.
 3) 	
 Loans to Subsidiaries:
	
Loans to the Subsidiaries have been given for acquisition of assets and augmenting working capital and have been utilised for 
the same.
	
 Guarantees given:
	
Guarantees provided to the lenders of the subsidiaries are for availing term loans and working capital facilities from the lender 
banks.
 4) 	
 All the material transactions stated above with related parties are on arm’s length basis.
# Key Management Personnel (Executive Director’s) compensation
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 a)	 Short- term employee benefits
 503
 424
 b)	 Post- employment benefits
 98
 -
 c)	 Sitting fees
 5
 -
 Total compensation *
 606
 424
* This aforesaid amount does not include amount in respect of gratuity and leave entitlement (both of which are determined actuarially) 
as the same is not determinable.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
253
3 	
Disclosure in respect of material transactions with related parties during the year. (included in 2 above).
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Purchases
 Goods and Materials
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 3,452
 3,266
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 3,081
 2,730
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 35,225
 43,656
 Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
 25
 -
 Purchase Return
 Singhania Education Services Limited
 48
 -
 DEPB Certificates
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 70
 304
 Sales
 Goods, Materials and Services
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 7,590
 9,472
 Silver Spark Middle East (FZE)
 4,717
 3,879
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 6,288
 7,318
 Raymond (Europe) Limited
 170
 112
 R & A Logistics Inc.
 212
 375
 Maini Precision Products Limited (w.e.f. March 28, 2024)
 14
 -
 Finance
 Loans and Advances given
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 -
 10,000
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 10,000
 -
 Loans and advances repaid
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 1,875
 -
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 5,000
 -
 Expenses
 Rent and other service charges
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 43
 -
 Other Reimbursement
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 36
 85
 Silver Spark Middle East (FZE)
 76
-
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 38
-
 Raymond Limited
 916
 -
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 74
-
 Job work charges
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 703
 759
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 879
 1,419
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
254
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Commission to selling agent
 Raymond (Europe) Limited
 1,039
 1,116
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 725
 994
 Remuneration (including commission)
 Shri Gautam Hari Singhania #
 601
 -
 Shri Debjit Rudra
 -
 424
 Deputation of staff
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 44
 247
 Interest Paid
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 18
 38
 Director Sitting Fees to Executive Directors (excluding taxes)
 Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
 5
 -
 Director Professional Fees
 Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
 50
-
Director Sitting Fees and Commission to Non Executive Directors 
and Independent directors
 Mr. Mahendra Doshi
 11
 12
 Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
 12
 10
 Mr. Kummamuri Narasimha Murthy
 10
 1
 Mr. Veneet Nayar
 9
 -
 Mr. Rajiv Sharma
 4
 -
 Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
 10
 -
 Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
 9
 -
 Smt. Anisha Motwani
 7
 -
 Smt. Rashmi Brijgopal Mundada
 3
 1
 Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
 -
 7
 Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania
 -
 7
 Mr. Manoj Kumar
 -
 7
 Mr. Prassana
 -
 7
 Mr. Rajiv Bakshi
 -
 7
 Mrs. Vidya Vijayrao
 -
 8
 Contribution to Gratuity fund
 J K Ansell Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme
 -
 134
 Paid to Trust
 Raymond Limited Employees Provident Fund
 569
 -
 Raymond Limited Employees Gratuity Fund
 421
 -
 Income
 Rent and other service charges
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 180
 180
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
255
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Corporate Facility
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 874
 788
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 749
 786
 Interest received
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 839
 806
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 408
 -
 Other Receipts
 Deputation of staff
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 83
 43
 Other Reimbursement
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 590
 362
 Ring Plus Aqua Limited
 128
 89
 JK Files & Engineering Limited (Erstwhile JK Files (India) Limited)
 242
 239
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 216
 190
 Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
 162
 178
 Maini Precision Products Limited
 59
 -
 Raymond Limited
 447
 -
 J K Investors (Bombay) Limited
 206
 259
 Everblue Apparel Ltd.
 24
 27
 Security deposit Paid
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 -
 300
 Outstandings
 Guarantees given to bank on behalf of
 Raymond (Europe) Limited
 1,107
 1,053
 Silver Spark Middle East (FZE)
 4,279
 4,169
 Payable
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 909
 1,190
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 6,779
 9,709
 Raymond (Europe) Limited
 1,120
 797
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 2,176
 1,946
 Singhania Education Services Ltd.
 -
 57
 Raymond Limited
 662
 -
 Receivable
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 5,145
 8,830
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
256
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March, 2025
 As at
31 March, 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
 Silver Spark Middle East (FZE)
 3,652
 4,614
 Raymond (Europe) Limited
 46
 -
 R.A.Logistic Inc.
 226
 93
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Ltd.
 2,218
 7,078
 Interest on ICD/Loans Receivable
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Ltd.
-
 726
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
-
 -
 Other Receivable
 Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
 181
 913
 Ten X Realty Limited
 12
 -
 JK Talabot Ltd.
 1
 4
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Ltd.
 290
 153
 Maini Precision Products Limited
 66
 -
 Ring Plus Aqua Limited
 56
 127
 JK Files & Engineering Limited
 93
 110
 J K Investors (Bombay) Limited
 66
 62
 Raymond Limited
 419
 139
 Everblue Apparel Limited
 28
 483
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 116
 1,555
 Inter Corporate Deposit/Loans
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 5,000
 -
 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 8,125
 10,000
 Property Deposits Receivable
 Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
 1
 1
 Security Deposit Payable
 J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
224
 224
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
257
Loans and advances in the nature of loans given
Amount 
outstanding
as at
31 March, 2025
Maximum 
balance during 
the year
 31 March, 2025
Shares held by Loanee in the 
Company
No. of Shares 
outstanding at 
the year-end
Maximum No. 
of Shares held 
during the year
(i) Subsidiaries:
Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 5,000
 8,000
 -
 -
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 8,125
 10,000
 -
 -
 (10,000)
 (10,000)
 (-)
 (-)
(Figures in bracket relate to previous year)
Note: 44 Financial instruments
Financial Instrument by category and hierarchy
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a 
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions are 
used to estimate the fair values:
1. 	
Fair value of cash and cash equivalents, bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, 
other current financial assets/ liabilities (except derivative financial instruments) and short term borrowings approximate their 
carrying amounts largely due to short term maturities of these instruments.
2. 	
Financial instruments are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as individual credit worthiness of the counter-
party. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken to account for expected losses on these receivables. Accordingly, fair 
value of such instruments is not materially different from their carrying amounts.
3. 	
The fair values for deposits were calculated based on cash flows discounted using market interest rate on the date of initial 
recognition and subsequently on each reporting date. The lease liability is initially recognised at the present value of the 
future lease payments and is discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
4. 	
The fair value of long term borrowings approximate their carrying amounts due to the fact that no upfront fees is paid as 
compensation to secure the borrowing and the interest rate is equal to the market interest rate.
5. 	
The fair value of investment in quoted investment in equity shares and debentures is based on the bid price of respective 
investment as at the balance sheet date.
6. 	
The fair value of investments in mutual fund units is based on the net asset value (‘NAV’) as stated by the issuers of these mutual 
fund units in the published statements as at balance sheet date. NAV represents the price at which the issuer will issue further 
units of mutual fund and the price at which issuers will redeem such units from the investors.
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market 
data (unobservable inputs).
There have been no transfer amongst the levels of fair value hierarchy during the year.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the standalone financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines 
whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
258
31 March 2025
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
- derivative 
instruments
Mandatorily at 
FVTPL
FVOCI - debt 
instruments
FVOCI - equity 
instruments
Financial 
assets at 
amortised cost
Other financial 
liabilities
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets measured at fair value
Equity instruments
 -
 117
 -
 -
 -
 -
 117
 -
 -
Mutual funds
 -
 71,130
 -
 -
 -
 -
 71,130
 -
 -
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Debentures
 -
 -
 -
 -
 21,876
 -
 -
 -
 -
Commerical papers
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,428
 -
 -
 -
 -
Government securities
 -
 -
 0
 -
 -
 -
 -
Loans
 -
 -
 -
 -
 13,125
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other financial assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 15,984
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade receivable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 65,398
 -
 -
 -
 -
Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 -
 -
 24,435
 -
 -
 -
 -
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 -
 -
 12,694
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 71,248
 -
 -
 1,55,939
 -
 71,248
 -
 -
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Forward exchange contracts
 76
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 76
 -
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 93,897
 -
 -
 -
Lease liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,00,898
 -
 -
 -
Other financial liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 33,664
 -
 -
 -
Trade payables
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,12,752
 -
 -
 -
 76
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,41,211
 -
 76
 -
31 March 2024
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
- derivative 
instruments
Mandatorily at 
FVTPL
FVOCI - debt 
instruments
FVOCI - equity 
instruments
Financial 
assets at 
amortised cost
Other financial 
liabilities
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets measured at fair value
Equity instruments
 -
 210
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,463
 -
 -
Mutual funds
 -
 46,694
 -
 -
 -
 -
 46,694
 -
 -
Financial assets not measured at fair value
 Debentures
 -
 -
 -
 -
 28,800
 -
 -
 -
 -
Commerical papers
 -
 -
 -
 -
 13,350
 -
 -
 -
 -
Government securities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 0
 -
 -
 -
 -
Loans
 -
 -
 -
 -
 10,000
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other financial assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 12,624
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade receivable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 81,182
 -
 -
 -
 -
Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,384
 -
 -
 -
 -
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 -
 -
 5,911
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 46,905
 -
 -
 1,56,251
 -
 48,158
 -
 -
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Forward exchange contracts
 62
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 62
 -
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 63,644
 -
 -
 -
Lease liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 70,860
 -
 -
 -
Other financial liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 32,074
 -
 -
 -
Trade payables
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,06,309
 -
 -
 -
 62
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,72,888
 -
 62
 -
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
259
The Company has not disclosed the fair values of abovementioned financial instruments which are not measured at fair value, 
because their carrying value is reasonable approximation of their fair value.
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs (Level 2 and Level 3):
Valuation technique
Instrument
 Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Inter-relationship between 
significant unobservable 
inputs and fair value 
measurements
The fair value is determined using quoted forward exchange 
rates at the reporting date and present value calculations 
based on high credit quality yield curves in the respective 
currencies
Forward 
exchange 
contracts
 Not applicable
The estimated fair value 
would increase/ (decrease) if 
forex revaluation rate would 
reduce/ (increase)
The investment in government securities is not material to the standalone financial statements. Thus, the disclosure of valuation 
techniques and significant unobservable inputs is not presented.
Note: 45 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s primary focus 
is to foresee the unpredictability of financial markets and seek to minimise potential adverse effects on its financial performance. The 
Company’s management oversees these risks and formulates the policies which are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors 
and Audit Committee. Such risks are summarised below:
a) 	
	Market risk
	
	Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of change in market 
prices. The primary market risk to the Company is currency risk and interest risk.
	
	Interest risk
	
	Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s 
debt obligations.
Exposure to interest rate risk
As at
31 March 2025
(refer note 40)
As at
31 March 2024
Fixed-rate instruments
Debentures
 20,000 
 30,648 
 20,000 
 30,648 
Variable-rate instruments
Term loan from banks
 10,203 
 - 
Loans repayable on demand from banks
 60,723 
 29,408 
Bills discounted with banks
 130 
 1,138 
Working capital loan from banks
 2,841 
 2,450 
 73,897 
 32,996 
Interest rate sensitivity
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of borrowings 
affected. With all other variables held constant, the Company’s profit or loss before tax and Company’s equity is affected through the 
impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
260
Particulars
Equity
Gain / (loss) on
profit or loss before tax
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Interest rate increase by 50 basis points
 (369)
 (165)
 (369)
 (165)
Interest rate decrease by 50 basis points
 369 
 165 
 369 
 165 
Foreign currency risk
The Company’s exposure to risk of change in foreign currency exchange rates arising from foreign currency transactions, is primarily 
with respect to the currencies where the exchange rates are not fixed. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions 
and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the Company. The Company uses 
derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign exchange related risk exposures. The counter party of these derivative instruments 
are primarily banks. These derivative financial instruments are valued based on inputs that is directly or indirectly observable in the 
marketplace.
The Company procures/ sell goods in their functional currency and in case of imports/ exports, it primarily deals in United States 
Dollars (‘USD’) and Australian Dollar (‘AUD’). Other currencies are Euro, Great Britain Pound (‘GBP’), United Arab Emirates Dirham 
(‘AED’), Chinese Yuan (‘RMB’), Bangladeshi Taka (‘BDT’) and Swiss Franc (‘CHF’).
The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk management 
policies. There are earnings from customers in foreign currency which act as a natural hedge against foreign currency risk.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience 
and supervision. It is the Company’s policy that no trading in derivative for speculative purposes may be undertaken. These derivative 
financial instruments are forward contracts which are used to mitigate the foreign exchange exposure of highly probable future 
forecasted sales or purchase.
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as under:
31 March 2025
Currency
Amount in respective foreign currencies
(in millions)
Amount
(Rs. in lakhs)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
USD
 9 
 2 
 7 
 7,776 
 1,791 
 5,985 
EURO
 1 
 0 
 1 
 873 
 179 
 694 
GBP
 - 
 0 
 (0)
 - 
 6 
 (6)
RMB
 0 
 - 
 0 
 12 
 - 
 12 
AUD
 - 
 14 
 (14)
 - 
 7,712 
 (7,712)
 8,661 
 9,688 
 (1,027)
Less: Forward exchange contracts
 - 
 (4,929)
 8,661 
 4,758 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
261
31 March 2024
Currency
Amount in respective foreign currencies
(in millions)
Amount
(Rs. in lakhs)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
USD
 26 
 3 
 23 
 21,791 
 2,473 
 19,318 
EURO
 4 
 0 
 4 
 3,488 
 422 
 3,066 
GBP
 - 
 0 
 (0)
 - 
 0 
 (0)
RMB
 0 
 - 
 0 
 6 
 - 
 6 
AUD
 - 
 57 
 (57)
 - 
 30,988 
 (30,988)
AED
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1 
 0 
 1 
 25,286 
 33,884 
 (8,598)
Less: Forward exchange contracts
 (5,182)
 (54,847)
 20,104 
 (20,963)
The following table give details in respect of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts
Particulars
Buy/ Sell
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Foreign 
currency
(in units)
Fair value
(Rs. in lakhs)
Foreign 
currency
(in units)
Fair value
(Rs. in lakhs)
Foreign currency forward contracts in EURO
Sell
 - 
 - 
 2,99,746 
 273 
Foreign currency forward contracts in USD
Sell
 - 
 - 
 19,61,350 
 4,909 
Foreign currency forward contracts in USD
Buy
 - 
 - 
 95,576 
 79 
Foreign currency forward contracts in AUD
Buy
 91,69,387 
 4,929 
 52,01,360 
 54,767 
 91,69,387 
 4,929 
 75,58,032 
 60,028 
Derivative financial instruments i.e., foreign exchange forward contracts are used for hedging purposes and not as trading or 
speculative instruments.
Sensitivity to foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity in the foreign currencies with all other variables held constant. The below impact 
on the Company’s profit or loss before tax and Company’s equity is based on changes in the fair value of unhedged foreign currency 
monetary assets and liabilities as at balance sheet date:
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
262
Impact on equity
Impact on profit or loss for the year 
ended
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
USD
Increase by 5%
 299 
 966 
 299 
 966 
Decrease by 5%
 (299)
 (966)
 (299)
 (966)
EURO
Increase by 5%
 35
 153
 35
 153
Decrease by 5%
 (35)
 (153)
 (35)
 (153)
GBP
Increase by 5%
-
-
-
-
Decrease by 5%
-
-
-
-
RMB
Increase by 5%
 1
-
 1
-
Decrease by 5%
 (1)
-
 (1)
-
AUD
Increase by 5%
 (386)
 (1,549)
 (386)
 (1,549)
Decrease by 5%
 386 
 1,549 
 386 
 1,549 
AED
Increase by 5%
 -
-
 -
-
Decrease by 5%
 -
-
 -
-
Other market price risk
The Company is mainly exposed to the price risk due to its investment in quoted equity instruments, mutual funds and quoted 
debentures. The price risk arises due to uncertainties about the future market values of these investments. The Company has laid 
policies and guidelines which it adheres to in order to minimise price risk arising from these investments.
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Investment in equity instruments
 117 
 210 
Investment in mutual funds
 71,130 
 46,694 
Investment in debentures
 21,876 
 28,800 
Impact on profit or loss
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Price change by :
Equity instruments
100 basis points increase
 1.17
 2.10
100 basis points decrease
 (1.17)
 (2.10)
Mutual funds
100 basis points increase
 711.30
 466.94
100 basis points decrease
 (711.30)
 (466.94)
Debentures
100 basis points increase
 218.76
 288.00
100 basis points decrease
 (218.76)
 (288.00)
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
263
b) 	
Credit risk
	
	Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises from cash and cash equivalents, bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, 
other financial assets as well as credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables and contract assets. The 
maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets.
	
	Trade receivables and contract assets
	
	The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. To manage 
this, the Company periodically assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial condition, 
current economic trends, forward looking macroeconomic information, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts 
receivables. Individual risk limits are set accordingly. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the customer including the default risk of the industry and country in 
which the customer operates also has an influence on credit risk assessment.
	
The expected credit loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 36 months before the reporting date and 
the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current 
and forward-looking information on macro-economic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. The 
Company recognises lifetime expected losses for all trade receivables and contract assets that do not constitute a financing 
component.
	
The Company has no concentration of credit risk as the customer base is widely distributed both economically and geographically.
	
Outstanding customer receivables and contract assets are regularly monitored
	
	Other financial assets
	
	The Company periodically monitors the recoverability and credit risks of its other financial assets. The Company evaluates 12 
months expected credit losses for all the financial assets for which credit risk has not increased significantly. In case credit risk 
has increased significantly, the Company considers life time expected credit losses for the purpose of impairment provisioning.
	
The Company has considered financial condition, current economic trends, forward looking macroeconomic information, 
analysis of historical bad or doubtful receivables and ageing of receivables related to cash and cash equivalents, bank balances 
other than cash and cash equivalents, margin deposits, security deposits and other financial assets. In most of the cases, 
risk is considered low since the counterparties are reputed organisations with no history of default to the Company and no 
unfavourable forward looking macro economic factors. Wherever applicable, expected credit loss allowance is recorded.
The following table gives details in respect of geography-wise trade receivables and contract assets (gross):
Particulars
As at
In %
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
India
 65,704
 83,161
88%
93%
Outside India
 8,661
 5,899
12%
7%
Expected credit loss for trade receivables
31 March 2025
0-30 days
31-60 days
61-90 days
More than
90 days
Credit 
impaired
Trade receivables
 47,023
 921
 465
 16,987
 8,967
Expected loss rates
0%
0%
0%
0%
100%
Expected credit loss
 -
 -
 -
 -
 8,967
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
264
31 March 2024
0-30 days
31-60 days
61-90 days
More than
90 days
Credit 
impaired
Trade receivables
 60,289
 7,553
 4,032
 9,307
 7,878
Expected loss rates
0%
0%
0%
0%
100%
Expected credit loss
 -
 -
 -
 -
 7,878
The following table summarises the change in the loss allowance measured using expected credit loss model on trade 
receivables:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
At the beginning of the year
 7,878
 6,987
Loss allowance created during the year
 1,089
 891
Transfer on account of demerger (refer note 40)
 -
Loss allowance reversed during the year
 -
 -
At the end of the year
 8,967
 7,878
The Company does not require collateral in respect of trade receivables. Also, there are no such receivables for which no loss 
allowance is recognised because of collateral.
c)	
	Liquidity risk
	
	Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The Company 
manages its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due. 
Also, the Company has unutilized credit limits with banks. The Company manages its liquidity needs by monitoring scheduled 
debt servicing payments for financial liabilities as well as forecast cash inflow and outflows due in day to day business. In 
addition, processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior management. The Company’s management 
monitors the net liquidation position through rolling forecast on the basis of expected cash flows.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities on undiscounted 
basis:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
(refer note 40)
As at 31 March 2024
On 
demand
Less than 
one year
One to 
five years
More than 
five years
On 
demand
Less than 
one year
One to 
five years
More than 
five years
Borrowings
 60,723 
 5,222 
 28,000 
 - 
 29,430 
 25,429 
 2,01,434 
 5,000 
Lease liabilities
 - 
 20,886 
 69,317 
 46,638 
 - 
 15,571 
 47,691 
 31,911 
Trade payables
 - 
 1,12,752 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,06,309 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 33,664 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32,074 
 - 
 - 
 60,723 
 1,72,523 
 97,317 
 46,638 
 29,430 
 1,79,382 
 2,49,125 
 36,911 
The Company has undrawn Rs. 88,873 lakhs (31 March 2024: Rs. 120,149 lakhs) credit facility that is secured and can be drawn down 
to meet short-term financing needs. Interest would be payable at a rate mutually agreed with banks at the time of drawdown.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
265
Note: 46 Capital risk management
The Company aims to manage its capital efficiently so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise 
returns to its shareholders.
The capital structure of the Company is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balance of key elements in order to 
meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. Management considers the amount of capital in proportion to risk and manage the capital 
structure in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust 
the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue 
new shares.
The Company’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, 
creditors and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. The Company will take appropriate 
steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
Gearing ratio
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Borrowings
 93,897
 63,644
Less: Cash and cash equivalents and bank balances other than cash 
and cash equivalents
 24,325
 4,373
Net debt#
 69,572
 59,270
Total equity
 8,97,091
 9,09,067
Total capital
 8,97,091
 9,09,067
Gearing ratio (in %)
8%
7%
# Net debt for the above purpose includes borrowings (including accrued interest) net of cash and cash equivalents and bank 
balances other than cash and cash equivalents (other than restricted balances).
There are no externally imposed capital requirements on the Company.
Dividends
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
 31 March 2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Equity shares (Face value of ₹ 10 each)
(i) Equity Shares
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2024 of ₹ 10 per paid 
by Raymond Limited on behalf of the Company pursuant to merger 
(Lifestyle Business) (refer note no 53) (31 March 2023 – ₹ Nil per) fully 
paid share
6,000
 -
(ii) Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
The directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of ₹ 
Nil per fully paid equity share (31 March 2024– ₹3 paid per fully paid 
equity share by Raymond Limited on behalf of the Company pursuant 
to merger (Lifestyle Business) (refer note no 53)).
 -
6,000
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
266
Note 47: Cash flow changes in liabilities arising from financial activities
Particulars
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
As at 1 April 2023
 1,68,468
 37,662
Cash flows (net)
 (1,17,110)
 (13,513)
Non cash movement: additions and/ or reassessment of lease liabilities 
(including accretion of interest) and interest expense on borrowings 
(including impact of EIR)
 12,285
 46,711
As at 31 March 2024
 63,644
 70,860
Cash flows (net)
 19,367
 (19,515)
Non cash movement: additions and/ or reassessment of lease liabilities 
(including accretion of interest) and interest expense on borrowings 
(including impact of EIR)
 10,886
 49,554
As at 31 March 2025
 93,897
 1,00,899
Note 48: Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) scheme allows import of certain capital goods including spares at concessional 
duty subject to an export obligation for the duty saved on capital goods imported under EPCG scheme. The duty saved on 
capital goods imported under EPCG scheme being Government Grant, is accounted as stated in the Accounting policy on 
Government Grant.
Note: 49 	 Employee Stock
(a)	
Employee Stock Option Plan - RCCL ESAR 2021 Scheme
1	
	 The establishment of J.K. Helene Curtis Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018 (JKHC ESOP 2018) and 
Raymond Consumer Care Private Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 (RCCPL ESOP 2019) was approved by 
shareholders in their extraordinary general meetings held on 30 October 2018 and 30 April 2019 respectively. Pursuant 
to the Scheme, all the employees, eligible under earlier JKHC ESOP 2018 and RCCPL ESOP 2019 (hereinafter together 
referred to as ‘Earlier ESOS’) became eligible under new Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘New ESOS’) in Raymond 
Consumer Care Limited (RCCL) for share options held in Earlier ESOS.
	
	 The Board of Directors vide their meeting dated 29 June 2020 approved that terms and conditions of New ESOS will 
remain same as those of earlier ESOS and thus accounting and disclosure therein has been done in accordance with 
terms and conditions prescribed in earlier ESOS, pending approval of new ESOS by the Company’s Board of Directors.
	
	 The Employee Stock Option Plan is designed to retain and reward the employees as stakeholders in the growth and 
success of the Company as they are the key catalyst in progress of the Company. Under the plan, participants are granted 
options which vest upon completion of vesting period as described below from the grant date. Participation in the plan is 
at the Nomination and Remuneration Committee’s discretion and no individual has a contractual right to participate in 
the plan or to receive any guaranteed benefits.
	
	 Once vested, the options remain exercisable for a period of one year.
	
	 Options are granted under the plan for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. When exercisable, each 
option is convertible into one equity share. The exercise price of the option is ₹ 10 per option. Set out below is a summary 
of options granted under the plans:
As at
31 March 2024
Number of options
Opening balance
1,905
Granted during the period
-
Exercised during the period
-
Forfeited during the period (refer note 49(3))
(1,905)
Closing balance
-
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
267
2	
	 The Company is in the process of establishing an ESOP scheme for Raymond Lifestyle Limited (RLL), in alignment with 
the Composite Scheme of Arrangement, to benefit option holders under the Raymond ESOP 2023. As per the demerger 
framework, option holders from the existing Raymond Limited (RL) ESOP scheme will be treated on par with equity 
shareholders in determining the number of options to be granted. Accordingly, they will receive stock options under RLL’s 
new ESOP scheme in a ratio of 4:5.
	
	 To ensure equitable treatment and reflect the value attributable to the original RL ESOP scheme, the exercise price of 
the options has been proportionately allocated between RL and RLL. This approach is designed to maintain fairness and 
continuity in employee benefits following the demerger.
3	
	 Expense arising from share-based payment transactions
	
	 The total expenses arising from share-based payments transactions recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as 
part of employee benefit expense are as follows:
Year ended
31 March 2024
Employee stock option expense / (reversal)
(33)
(33)
 4	
	 Raymond Consumer Care Limited (RCCL), has granted Stock Options to its eligible employees and employees of the 
Company, in accordance with the The Raymond Consumer Care Limited Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 
2021 (RCCL ESAR 2021) also known as the New ESOS Scheme with the proportionate vesting period spread over 4 years 
from the date of IPO with an exercise period of one year. The holder of each option is eligible for one fully paid equity share 
of the company of the face value of ₹ 10 each on payment of ₹ 10 per option. The fair value of option determined on the 
date of grant is ₹ 0.11 per option, based on the Black Scholes Model.
	
	 During the previous year, an amount ₹ 32.89 lakhs has been written back as options lapsed due to termination of RCCL 
ESAR 2021 Scheme via Board Approval on 3 May 2023.
5.	
	 The Lifestyle undertaking was part of Raymond Limited prior to its demerger into the Company. Therefore, certain 
employees of the Company have been holding Stock options as part under Employee Stock Option plan (ESOP plan) 
operated by Raymond Limited from historical periods. Pending finalization of new plan, the employees continue to hold 
ESOP’s in Raymond Limited as at 31 March 2025. The proportionate costs representing benefits accrued to the Company 
have been paid to Raymond Limited.
Note 50 - Cybersecurity incident
	
	The Company had identified a ransomware infection within its network that resulted in the encryption of critical user data and 
disrupted the operations for a brief period. The threat actor infiltrated the network via VPN using compromised credentials 
associated with a local VPN user from 11 February, 2025 to 16 February, 2025.
	
	The Company immediately involved external experts and isolated the infected infrastructure. Also, the Company promptly took 
steps to contain and remediate the impact of the incident and short-term goals were agreed and implemented. The Company 
implemented alternate controls and conducted containment, evaluation, restoration, and remediation activities as part of its 
response to the cyberattack with the assistance of external cybersecurity and information technology specialists. The Company 
has assessed and concluded that the accuracy and completeness of the financial information post the aforesaid remediation 
activities has not been affected as a result of the incident.
	
	The Company continues to strengthen its cybersecurity infrastructure and is in the process of implementing certain long-term 
measures including improvements to its cyber and data security systems to safeguard against such risks in future.
Note 51: The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) has prescribed a requirement for companies under the proviso to Rule 3(1) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules, 2021 requiring companies, 
which uses accounting software for maintaining its books of account, shall use only such accounting software which has a 
feature of recording audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an edit log of each change made in the books of account 
along with the date when such changes were made and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
	
	The Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which have a feature of audit trail (edit log) 
facility and the same was enabled at the application level. During the year ended 31 March 2025, the Company has not enabled 
the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) at the database level for the said accounting software to log any direct data changes. 
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention where 
such feature was enabled.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
268
Note 52: Details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure:
As per section 135 of the Act, and rules therein, the Company is required to spend at least 2% of its average net profits for three 
immediately preceding financial years towards CSR activities. The Company has CSR committee as per the Act. The funds are utilised 
on the activities which are specified in Schedule VII of the Act. Details of CSR expenditure are as follows:
Particulars (continuing and discountinued operations)
Year ended
31 March, 2025
Year ended
31 March,2024
(Restated - Refer note 53)
Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year, as per 
Section 135 of the Act
 179
 47
Amount of expenditure incurred on:
(i)	
Construction / acquisition of an asset
 -
 -
(ii)	 On purpose other than (i) above
 179
 47
Shortfall at the end of the year
 -
 -
Total of previous years shortfall
 Not Applicable
 Not Applicable
Reason for shortfall
 Not Applicable
 Not Applicable
Nature of CSR activities
 Not Applicable
 Not Applicable
Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as 
per relevant Accounting Standard
 -
 -
Note 53: Merger of lifestyle business undertaking
 The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on 27 April 2023 had approved the Composite Scheme of Arrangement 
for the demerger of the lifestyle business undertaking of Raymond Limited (‘Demerged Company’) into Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
(formerly known as Raymond Consumer Care Limited) (the ‘Company’) on a going concern basis. The appointed date proposed under 
this scheme was 01 April 2023.
The Company had received requisite approval from National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) vide its order dated 21 June 2024. 
Respective companies had filed the certified true copy of NCLT order along with the sanctioned scheme with the Registrar of 
Companies on 30 June 2024. Accordingly, the scheme was effective w.e.f. 30 June 2024.
The accounting of this scheme in the books of the Company has been done in accordance with Ind AS 103 ‘Business Combinations’ 
(‘Ind AS 103’) as on the appointed date. Consequently, the Company has restated its financial statements as at and for the year ended 
31 March 2024 to include the financial information of the acquired lifestyle business undertaking w.e.f. 01 April 2023. As per Ind AS 
103, purchase consideration has been allocated on the basis of fair valuation determined by an independent valuer.
As a consideration for the demerger, the Company was required to issue its equity shares to the shareholders of Raymond Limited as 
on record date in 4:5 swap ratio (i.e., four shares of ₹ 2 each had to be issued by the Company for every five shares of ₹ 10 each held 
by the shareholders in Raymond Limited). Accordingly, the Company had allotted 53,258,984 equity shares having face value of ₹ 2 
each to the shareholders of Raymond Limited on 11 July 2024. These equity shares were subsequently listed on BSE Limited (‘BSE’) 
and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’) on 05 September 2024.
Table 1 - Restatements - Balance Sheet
 Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2024
 As at
31 March, 2024
 Reported
 Restated
ASSETS
 Non-current assets
(a)	 Property, plant and equipment
 2,289 
 1,61,258 
(b)	 Capital work - in - progress
 - 
 1,666 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
269
 Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2024
 As at
31 March, 2024
 Reported
 Restated
(c)	 Investment properties
 - 
 180 
(d)	 Intangible assets
 - 
 4,62,475 
(e)	 Intangible assets under development
 - 
 2,804 
(f)	 Financial assets
 - 
 - 
 (i)	 Investments in subsidiaries
 - 
 1,18,145 
 (ii)	 Other investments
 1,83,770 
 13,770 
 (iii)	 Loans
 - 
 - 
 (iv)	 Other financial assets
 174 
 6,386 
 (g)	 Deferred tax assets (net)
 - 
 1,15,211 
 (h)	 Current tax assets (net)
 321 
 10,027 
 (i)	 Other non - current assets
 1,654 
 2,628 
 Current assets
(a)	 Inventories
 342 
 1,35,101 
(b)	 Financial assets
 - 
 - 
(i)	
Investments
 48,526 
 75,284 
(ii)	 Trade receivables
 1,134 
 81,182 
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
 1,280 
 4,384 
(iv)	 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 800 
 5,911 
(v)	 Loans
 - 
 10,000 
(vi)	 Other financial assets
 5,889 
 6,237 
(c)	 Other current assets
 106 
 33,046 
 TOTAL ASSETS
 2,46,285 
 12,45,695 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 Equity
a)	
Equity share capital
 298 
 153 
b)	
Equity share capital pending allotment
 2,34,140 
 1,065 
c)	
Other equity
 - 
 9,58,545 
 Non-current liabilities
(a)	 Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
 - 
 20,000 
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
 - 
 60,760 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
270
 Particulars
 As at
31 March, 2024
 As at
31 March, 2024
 Reported
 Restated
(b)	 Other non - current liabilities
 - 
 613 
 Current liabilities
(a)	 Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
 - 
 43,644 
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
 - 
 10,101 
(iii)	 Trade payables
 - 
	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 209 
 14,260 
	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 727 
 92,049 
(iv)	 Other financial liabilities
 780 
 32,074 
(b)	 Other current liabilities
 310 
 8,234 
(c)	 Provisions
 90 
 4,196 
(d)	 Deffered tax liabilities (net)
 51 
 - 
(e)	 Current tax liabilities (net)
 9,680 
 - 
 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 2,46,285 
 12,45,695 
Table 2 - Restatements - Statement of profit and loss
 Particulars
 Year ended
 31 March, 2024
 Year ended
 31 March, 2024
 Reported
 Restated
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 I INCOME
 Revenue from operations
 8,282 
 5,07,359 
 Other income
 19,808 
 16,043 
Total Income
 28,090 
 5,23,402 
 II EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed
 1,263 
 73,383 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 171 
 1,68,998 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and 
work-in-progress
 519 
 (10,028)
Employee benefits expense
 2,427 
 59,570 
Finance costs
 18 
 17,145 
Depreciation and amortization expense
 211 
 18,848 
Other expenses
 - 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
271
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
 Year ended
 31 March, 2024
 Year ended
 31 March, 2024
 Reported
 Restated
 (a) Manufacturing and operating costs
 2,604 
 48,929 
 (b) Other expenses
 1,509 
 93,586 
Total Expenses
 8,722 
 4,70,431 
 III  Profit from continuing operations before exceptional Items 
and tax
 19,368 
 52,971 
 IV  Exceptional Items- Profit (net)
 - 
 919 
 V  Profit from continuing operations before tax
 19,368 
 52,052 
 VI  Tax expense
 Current tax
 4,559 
 12,658 
 Deferred tax
 290 
 164 
 VII  Profit for the year from continued operations
 14,519 
 39,229 
 VIII  Profit for the year from discontinued operations (refer note 
54)
 Profit before tax from discontinued operations
 534 
 2,67,217 
 Exceptional gain from sale of discontinued operations
 2,66,684 
 - 
 Tax expenses on discontinued operations
 59,926 
 50,697 
 Deffered tax expenses on discontinued operations
 1,385 
 (1)
 Profit for the year from discontinued operations (after tax)
 2,05,907 
 2,16,520 
 IX  Profit for the year
 2,20,426 
 2,55,750 
 X  Other Comprehensive Income ('OCI')
Continuing operations
 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss - (loss)/ 
gain
 Measurements of defined employee benefit plans
 (1)
 388
 Income tax charge relating to items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss
 Measurements of defined employee benefit plans
-
 (98)
 Total Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax)
 (1)
 290
 XI  Total Comprehensive Income - gain for the year
 2,20,425 
 2,56,040 
 XII  Earnings per equity share of ₹ 2 each :
 Continuing operations
 Basic (₹)
 97.43 
 64.39 
 Diluted (₹)
 97.43 
 64.39 
 Discontinued operations (FMCG Business)
 Basic (₹)
 1,381.92 
 355.40 
 Diluted (₹)
 1,381.92 
 355.40 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
272
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
 Year ended
 31 March, 2024
 Year ended
 31 March, 2024
 Reported
 Restated
 Continuing and discontinued operations
 Basic (₹)
 1,479.35 
 419.79 
 Diluted (₹)
 1,479.35 
 419.79 
Table 3 - Restatements - Statement of cash flow
 Particulars
 Year ended
31 March,2024
 Year ended
31 March,2024
(Reported)
(Restated)
 Cash flows from Operating Activities
 (9,234)
 (2,084)
 Cash flows from Investing Activities
 10,679 
 1,27,811 
 Cash flows from Financing Activities
 (165)
 (1,30,623)
 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 1,280 
 (4,896)
 Add: Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
-
 9,269 
 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
 1,280 
 4,373 
Table 4 -  
(a) 	
Summary of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value:
Particulars As at acquisition date
As at 1 April 2023
Property, Plant and Equipment
 1,30,055
Intangible assets
 4,62,942
Deferred Tax Assets
 1,34,466
Other  non current Assets
 1,26,527
Other current Assets
 2,23,312
Other non Current Libilities
(1,05,390)
Other Current Libilities
(2,82,630)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value
 6,89,283
(b) 	
Capital Reserve arising on acquisition has been determined as follows:
Particulars
Amount
Purchase Consideration
 6,65,800
Total identifiable net assets at fair value
(6,89,283)
Capital Reserve
(23,483)
Note 54:	Discontinued operations
	
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on 27 April, 2023 approved the sale and transfer of the Company’s FMCG Business 
to Godrej Consumer Products Limited through a slump sale arrangement on a going concern basis. Accordingly, the transfer of 
business was completed against a sale consideration of ₹ 282,500 lakhs as per the terms of agreement.
	
This trasnferred business is considered and classified as discontinuing operations in the financial statements. The statement of 
profit and loss has been represented to show the discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
273
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
A. 	
Results of discontinued operations
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
Total Income
 4,367
Expenses
 3,834
Results from operating activities
 533
Income-tax
 -
Results from operating activities, net of tax
 533
Profit from sale of discontinued operation
 2,66,684
Income-tax on gain on sale of discontinued operation
50,697
Deffered-tax on sale of discontinued operation
-
Profit from discontinued operation
 2,16,520
B.	
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
Net cash from operating activities
 298
Net cash from investing activities
 6,828
Net cash used in financing activities
 -
Net cash flows for the year
 7,126
C.	
Effect of disposal on the financial position of the Discontinue business
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2023
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 586
Financial assets
(i) Other financial assets
 8
Other non-current assets
 2
Current assets
Inventories
 5,374
Financial assets
(i) Trade receivables
 6,707
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents
 2,115
(iii) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 8,122
(iv) Others financial assets
 145
Other current assets
 1,403
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
274
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2023
TOTAL ASSETS
 24,462
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
 2,172
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Trade payables
 -
 (a) total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 2,743
 (b) total outstanding dues other than micro and small enterprises
 2,466
(ii) Other financial liabilities
 1,956
Provisions
 347
Other current liabilities
 4,395
TOTAL LIABILITIES
 14,079
ASSETS NET OF LIABILITIES
 10,383
Profit upto 30 April 2024
 534
ASSETS NET OF LIABILITIES
 10,917
Note 55: Financial ratios
Sr.
No.
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
As at and for the year ended
Variance 
%
31 March, 
2025
31 March, 
2024
(Restated - 
Refer note 53)
1
Current ratio
 Times 
 Current assets 
 Current 
liabilities 
 1.56 
 1.72 
-9%
2
Debt - Equity ratio
 Times 
 Debt 
 Net worth 
 0.10 
 0.07 
49%
3
Debt Service Coverage 
ratio
 Times 
 Earnings available 
for debt service 
Debt service
 1.49 
 2.35 
-36%
4
Return on Equity
 % 
 Profit for the year 
Average net 
worth
0%
4%
-102%
5
Inventory Turnover ratio
 Times 
 Cost of goods sold 
 Average 
inventory 
 1.94 
 2.15 
-10%
6
Trade Receivables 
Turnover ratio
 Times 
 Revenue from 
contracts with 
customer 
 Average trade 
receivables 
 6.39 
 7.62 
-16%
7
Trade Payables Turnover 
ratio
 Times 
 Cost of goods sold 
 Average trade 
payables 
 2.40 
 2.72 
-12%
8
Net Capital Turnover
 Times 
 Revenue from 
contracts with 
customer 
 Working capital 
 3.51 
 3.46 
1%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
275
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
9
Net Profit/(Loss) Margin
 % 
 Profit for the year 
Revenue from 
contracts with 
customer
0%
8%
-102%
10
Return on Capital 
employed
 % 
 EBIT 
Capital 
employed
2%
7%
-76%
11
Return on Investment
 % 
 Net gain/ (loss) 
on sale/ fair value 
changes of current 
investment 
Average current 
investment
2%
1%
74%
Notes:
1. 	
Debt = Non current borrowings + Current borrowings
2. 	
Net worth = Paid up share capital + Reserves created out of profit - Accumulated losses
3. 	
Earnings available for debt service = Net profit after tax (excluding OCI) + Non cash operating expenses + Interest expenses
4. 	
Debt service = Interest expenses + Lease payment within next 12 months + Principal repayment of borrowings within next 12 
months
5. 	
Cost of goods sold = Cost of materials consumed + Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in trade and work-in-
progress + Consumption of stores and spare parts
6. 	
Working capital = Current assets - Current liabilities
7. 	
EBIT = Earnings before finance costs, other income and tax
8. 	
Capital employed = Tangible net worth (i.e., net worth - intangible assets) + total borrowings + deferred tax liabilities
i)	
	Debt - Equity ratio (times): Increase in the ratio by 49% is mainly due to increase in the loan in the current year
ii)	
	Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times): Decrease in the ratio by 36% is mainly on account of decrease in EBIDTA in the current 
year as compared to the previous year.
iii)	
	Return on Equity: Decrease in the ratio by 102% is mainly on account of is mainly on account of net loss in the current year as 
compared net profit in the previous year
iv)	
	Net Profit/(Loss) Margin (%): Decrease in the ratio by 102% is mainly on account of net loss in the current year as compared 
net profit in the previous year.
v)	
	Return on Capital employed (%): Decrease in ratio by 76% is due to loss in the current year as compared to previous year.
vi)	
Return on Investment (%): Increase in ratio by 74% is due to increase in fair value gain in the current year as compared to 
previous year.
Note 56: Additional regulatory information required by Division II Schedule III of the Act
a) 	
	Details of benami property
	
	Company is not holding any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules 
made thereunder as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024. Further, no proceedings have been initiated or pending against the 
Company for holding any benami property under the said act and rules mentioned above for the years ended 31 March 2025 
and 31 March 2024.
b) 	
	Wilful defaulter
	
	The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or any other lender for the years ended 
31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
276
c) 	
	Relationship with struck off companies
	
	There is no transaction and year-end balance as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 with struck off companies.
d) 	
	Compliance with number of layers of companies
	
	The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under section 2(87) of the Act for the years ended 31 March 
2025 and 31 March 2024.
e) 	
	Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium (for the years ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024)
	
	The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) to any other person or entity, including foreign entity (‘Intermediaries’) with the understanding (whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall:
a. 	 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
b. 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	The Company has not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entity (‘Funding Party’) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
a. 	 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
b. 	 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
f) 	
	Undisclosed income
	
	No income has been surrendered or disclosed as income during the current and previous year.
g) 	
	Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
	
	The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current and previous year.
h) 	
	Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’)
	
	There are no charges which are yet to be registered with the ROC beyond the statutory period as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 
2024.
i) 	
Revaluation
	
The Company has not revalued its PPE, ROU assets and intangible assets during the current and previous year.
Note 57: Disclosure as per Regulation 53(1)(f) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015
The disclosure is applicable for the year ended 31 March 2024 only as the listed non-convertible securities are transferred to Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited on 30 June 2024 under the scheme of arrangement [refer note 53].
Loans and advances in the nature of loans given to subsidiaries
Name of the loanee
Amount outstanding
Maximum balance 
outstanding during
Investment (number 
of shares held) by the 
loanee in the shares 
of the Company and 
its direct subsidiary 
companies
as at
31 March 2025
as at
31 March 2024
 year ended
31 March 2025
 year ended
31 March 2024
Subsidiaries
 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
 5,000
 -
 8,000
 -
 -
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 8,125
 10,000
 10,000
 10,000
 -
The Company had given the loans to above-mentioned borrowers for meeting their business requirements.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
277
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Note 58: Subsequent events
‘There are no subsequent events which warrant adjustment or disclosure in the standalone financial statements.
Note 59: Disclosure under section 186(4) of the Act
Particulars (continuing and discontinued operations)
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
 - Investment made during the year
 -
 -
 - Investment as at (net of loss allowance) (refer note 5)
 1,18,145
 1,18,145
 - Loans given during the year
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
 10,000
 10,000
 - Loans as at (net of loss allowance) (refer notes 6 and 14)
 13,125
 10,000
 - Guarantee given during the year
 -
 -
 - Guarantee as at*
Raymond Europe Ltd
799
 759
Silver Spark Apparel Limited
3,792
 3,771
*Change in guarantee amount is due to change in foreign exchange rate during the year.
Note 60: As per the transfer pricing rules, the Company has examined international transactions and documentation in respect 
thereof to ensure compliance with the said rules. The management does not anticipate any material adjustments with regard to the 
transactions involved.
Note 61: Authorisation of standalone financial statements
The standalone financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025 were approved by the Board of Directors on
12 May 2025.
Note 62: Previous year figures have been regrouped, reclassified and rearranged wherever necessary, to conform to this year’s 
presentation, and these are not material to the standalone financial statements.
These are the material accounting policies and other explanatory information referred to in our report of even date
For WALKER CHANDIOK & CO LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
 Sameer Shah
Gautam Hari Singhania
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Chairman and Managing Director
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
 Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
 Mumbai, 12 May 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
278
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
To the Members of Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Raymond Lifestyle Limited (the 
‘Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
the ‘Group’) as listed in Annexure I, which comprise the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flow and the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, 
and notes to the consolidated financial statements, 
including a material accounting policy information and 
other explanatory information.
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based on 
the consideration of the reports of the other auditors 
on separate financial statements and on the other 
financial information of the subsidiaries, the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind 
AS’) specified under section 133 of the Act, read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
(as amended), and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group, as at 31 March 2025, and their consolidated 
profit (including other comprehensive income – gain), 
consolidated cash flows and the consolidated changes 
in equity for the year ended on that date.
Independent Auditor’s Report
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Group 
in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the ‘ICAI’) 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
under the provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the Code 
of Ethics issued by the ICAI. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained together with the audit 
evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their 
reports referred to in paragraph 16 of the Other Matters 
section below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matter
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment and based on the consideration 
of the reports of the other auditors on separate/ 
consolidated financial statements of the subsidiaries, 
were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.
5.	
We have determined the matter described below to be 
the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matters
Revenue recognition
Refer note 1(i)(q) and 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements for the material accounting policy 
information on revenue recognition and details of 
revenue recognised during the year respectively.
The Group’s revenue is primarily derived from the 
sale of goods (apparel and textile) that are sold 
through various distribution channels. The Group 
and its external stakeholders focus on revenue as a 
key performance metric.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised in 
accordance with Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers”, at a point in time when control of 
goods is transferred to the customer and there are 
no longer any unfulfilled performance obligations. 
This typically occurs at the time of dispatch, delivery 
or upon formal customer acceptance depending on 
customer terms which may vary for each customer.
Further, the Group operates various incentive 
schemes for its retailers and distributors which are 
generally based on sales volume achieved within 
a stipulated period. Estimating accruals towards 
such incentives involves management judgement 
regarding sales likely to be achieved by each retailer/ 
distributor.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
•	 Assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s revenue recognition 
accounting policies, including those relating to incentives and sales returns, 
in accordance with applicable accounting standards;
•	 Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of internal 
financial controls including general and specific application information 
technology controls around revenue recognition, incentive accruals and 
provision for sales return;
•	 Selected a sample of key customer contracts and incentive schemes to 
understand performance obligation;
•	 Performed substantive testing on selected samples in respect to revenue 
transactions recorded during the year and transactions recorded during 
specific periods before and after year-end by inspecting supporting 
documents such as customer acceptances, invoices, shipping documents, 
proofs of dispatch, delivery, historical trend of collections and disputes, 
to ensure the accuracy and completeness of revenue recorded for such 
transactions in the correct period;
•	 Tested samples of credit notes issued during the year and subsequent to 
year end, to confirm appropriateness of revenue recognised during the 
current year;
•	 For contracts involving variable consideration, we examined the terms and 
conditions pertaining to incentives from the underlying scheme documents. 
Further, we discussed and obtained an understanding from the management 
of the key assumptions applied and inputs used in estimating provisions 
for incentives as well as sales returns and compared the provisions made 
by the management with past trends and our understanding of prevailing 
market conditions;
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
280
The Group also makes provisions for sales returns 
based on historic trends and assessment of market 
conditions.
Considering the materiality of amounts involved, 
significant management judgements and estimates 
involved in estimating the accrual for incentives and 
sales return provisions and auditor efforts involved 
in evaluating contracts with distinct commercial and 
delivery terms determining the timing of transfer of 
control, revenue recognition is considered to be a key 
audit matter for the current year audit.
•	 Performed substantive analytical procedures such as customer-wise 
variance analysis and product-wise analysis to identify any unusual trends 
and/ or material variances;
•	 Tested a sample of manual journal entries posted to revenue ledgers to 
identify any unusual items; and
•	 Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures included in the 
consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the requirements of 
applicable financial reporting framework.
Accounting 
for 
business 
combination 
and 
impairment assessment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life:
Refer notes 1(i)(z) and 1(i)(e) for Group’s material 
accounting policy information and notes 50 and 5 
for details of business combination and impairment 
assessment related disclosures in the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements.
During the current year, the Group acquired the 
lifestyle business undertaking of Raymond Limited 
on a going concern basis, pursuant to composite 
scheme of arrangement of demerger (the ‘Scheme’) 
with appointed date as 01 April 2023, effective from 
30 June 2024, being the date of filing of certified order 
of National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) with 
Registrar of Companies (‘ROC’).
The accounting of this transaction has been 
done in accordance with Ind AS 103 “Business 
Combinations” (‘Ind AS 103’), as on the appointed 
date, which requires recognition of the assets 
being acquired and liabilities assumed, including 
identifiable intangible assets at their fair value on the 
date of acquisition. Accordingly, the management 
has also recognised capital reserve and goodwill in 
consolidated financials as at appointed date.
The management had appointed an external valuation 
expert to allocate the purchase consideration to the 
acquired assets and liabilities including identified 
intangible assets as per the fair values determined 
using various valuation models, which involved 
significant management estimates and judgements 
including the model used, discount rates and cost of 
disposal etc. which involve high inherent estimation 
uncertainty.
Further, as part of annual impairment testing, 
as at reporting date, management has engaged 
independent 
valuation 
experts 
to 
perform 
impairment assessment of Generating Unit (CGUs) 
which include such acquired intangible assets with 
indefinite useful life and to which goodwill has been 
allocated. The recoverable value of these CGUs has 
been ascertained using the value in use method, 
based on comparable companies’ methodology in 
accordance with Ind AS 36 “Impairment of Assets” 
(‘Ind AS 36’). This testing involved significant 
estimates and judgments by the management in 
relation to discount rate, comparable companies, 
cost of disposal etc.
Accordingly, we have considered the above business 
combination to be a matter of most significance to 
our current year audit considering the materiality 
of the amounts involved, significant complex 
judgements involved in purchase price allocation and 
identification of intangible assets and accounting 
as per the requirements of Ind AS 103, including 
‘control’ assessment. Further as stated above, 
significant judgments and estimates were involved 
in impairment testing of CGUs which included such 
acquired intangible assets with indefinite useful life 
including goodwill which are inherently subjective.
Therefore, we have identified these matters as key 
audit matters for the current year audit.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
For accounting for business combination
•	
Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the 
Company’s controls over accounting of business combination which includes 
valuation of acquired assets and liabilities, including identifiable intangible 
assets;
•	
Assessed the appropriateness of the accounting policy adopted by 
the management in terms of the requirements of Ind AS 103;
•	
Obtained the Scheme and related acquisition documents to gain an 
understanding of assets and liabilities acquired, the consideration transferred 
and to evaluate management’s judgement applied in determination of control 
and acquisition date, in accordance with Ind AS 103;
•	
Obtained management’s external valuation expert’s report on 
purchase price allocation of assets and liabilities acquired including valuation 
of intangible assets and assessed the competence, capability, and objectivity 
of such management expert;
•	
Involved auditor’s valuation experts to assist us in validating the key 
valuation assumptions and methodology considered by the management’s 
expert to allocate the purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
including identified intangible assets;
•	
Tested the arithmetic accuracy of the computation of capital reserve; 
and
•	
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures given 
in the consolidated financial statements, including disclosure of significant 
assumptions and judgements used by management, in accordance with 
applicable financial reporting framework.
For impairment assessment of intangible assets with indefinite useful life
•	
Obtained an understanding of the management process for 
annual impairment assessment of such intangible assets and assessed the 
appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policy for impairment of non-
financial assets in accordance with Ind AS 36;
•	
Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the 
Group’s controls over the impairment assessment of intangibles with indefinite 
life and estimating its recoverable amount;
•	
Obtained management’s external valuation specialist’s report and 
assessed the competence, capability, and objectivity of such management’s 
expert;
•	
Involved auditor’s valuation experts to assist in evaluating the 
appropriateness of the valuation methodology used and the reasonableness of 
the assumptions used by the management’s expert to calculate the recoverable 
amount;
•	
Evaluated and challenged management’s assumptions used in 
the impairment assessment, particularly those related to discount rate, cost 
of disposal etc,, based on our understanding of the business, past results, 
approved business plans and external factors;
•	
Evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management for 
reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions such as discount rate 
and cost of disposal, used in estimating the recoverable amount to determine 
and to assesses the estimation uncertainties i.e, whether reasonable changes 
in these key assumptions would result in the carrying amounts to exceed the 
recoverable amounts; and
•	
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures given 
in the consolidated financial statements, including disclosure of significant 
assumptions and judgements used by management, in accordance with 
applicable financial reporting framework.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
281
Write down of inventories to net realisable value
Refer note 1(i)(h) to the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements for material accounting policy 
information on inventories and note 10 for details 
of inventories as at 31 March 2025. As at 31 March 
2025, the Group held inventories of Rs. 175,675 
lakhs (after considering provision for slow moving/ 
non-moving inventories of ₹16,569 Lakhs), which 
represents a significant portion of total assets of the 
Group. In accordance with Ind AS 2 “Inventories” 
(‘Ind AS 2’), inventories are carried at lower of cost or 
net realisable value (‘NRV’).
The Company maintains inventory levels based on 
forecasted demand and expected future selling 
prices. Given thatd the Group operates in a fast-
changing fashion market where there is a risk of 
inventory falling out of fashion and proving difficult 
to be sold above cost, accordingly there is a risk of 
inventories being measured at values which are not 
representative of the lower of costs and NRV.
Management estimates provision for slow-moving/ 
non-moving 
inventories 
for 
different 
product 
categories basis their assessment of current and 
expected future trends, ageing of such inventory and 
historical experience in liquidating aged inventory.
Owing to the significance of carrying amount of 
inventories and significant management judgements 
and estimates involved in assessing future market 
and economic conditions and trends while assessing 
provision for slow-moving/ non-moving, we have 
considered this matter as key audit matter for the 
current year audit.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
•	
Understood the management’s process and methodology of 
identifying slow-moving/ non-moving inventories and NRV assessment and 
assessed the appropriateness of Group’s accounting policy for provision for 
inventories in accordance with Ind AS 2;
•	
Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of 
internal financial controls relating to inventory provisioning as per Ind AS.
•	
Evaluated the management’s assessment for estimating NRV by 
comparing carrying value of such inventories with subsequent and recent 
selling prices on a sample basis.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of assumptions and estimates used 
by the management while determining provision for slow moving inventories 
including age of the inventory product, historical experience, current trend and 
future expectations based on our understanding of the business;
•	
Tested the ageing report on a sample basis and performed procedures 
to ensure its completeness and accuracy of such report;
•	
Attended the physical inventory count performed by the management 
near to the year end and as at reporting date to observe the existence and 
physical condition of inventory;
•	
Performed substantive analytical procedures such as ageing analysis, 
NRV testing etc. for reasonableness of provisioning towards inventories; and
•	
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures included 
in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the requirements 
of applicable financial reporting framework.
Cybersecurity 
incident 
related 
to 
financial 
reporting Information Technology (IT) systems
Refer note 54 to the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements for disclosure with respect to 
the cybersecurity incident.
During the current year, the Holding Company 
and one of its subsidiaries (collectively referred to 
‘Target Companies’) had identified a ransomware 
attack within its IT network that affected its financial 
reporting IT systems and operations and caused 
a temporary interruption of system operations 
from 11 February 2025 to 16 February 2025. Target 
Companies are significantly dependent on their 
financial reporting IT systems for processing of 
information and financial data that support the 
overall preparation of the respective financial 
statements.
In 
response, 
management 
promptly 
initiated 
containment, 
evaluation, 
restoration, 
and 
remediation measures, with the assistance of 
external cybersecurity and IT specialists including 
implementation of necessary alternate controls 
and manual reconstruction of financial data for the 
interrupted period.
Following 
the 
completion 
of 
the 
aforesaid 
remediation activities, the Target Companies have 
assessed and concluded that the incident did not 
impact the accuracy and completeness of the 
financial information.
This incident necessitated significant auditor effort, 
including involvement of professionals with expertise 
in cyber incident response and IT, and significant 
auditors’ professional judgements were involved in 
designing the audit procedures and evaluating the 
management’s response on potential extent and 
consequences of the cybersecurity incident on the 
Target Companies’ financial reporting IT environment 
and controls and manual data reconstruction 
approach adopted by the management. Accordingly, 
we have identified the cybersecurity incident as a key 
audit matter for the current year audit.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to the following:
•	
Assessed the impact of the cybersecurity incident on the Target 
Companies’ financial reporting IT environment, including data security, and the 
effectiveness of internal financial controls;
•	
Obtained and reviewed the reports of the external IT consultants, 
engaged by management to understand the cause of the incident and its 
impact on Target Companies’ IT infrastructure, including financial systems;
•	
With the assistance of auditor’s IT and cyber incident response 
specialists, we evaluated the actions taken by the management in response to 
the cybersecurity incident, performed procedures to evaluate management’s 
conclusions on the extent of impact of the incident on the Target Company’s 
internal control environment, financial reporting IT systems, measures taken 
for restoration of data and improvements made to the IT security control 
environment;
•	
Assessed management’s evaluation and conclusions with respect to 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations and also inquired with Target 
Company’s internal IT and compliance teams to corroborate management’s 
assessment;
•	
With the assistance of the auditor’s IT specialists, we tested Target 
Company’s IT general controls and IT automated controls for undisrupted 
periods;
•	
With respect to the manual data reconstruction approach adopted 
by the management, we performed the following procedures, amongst others, 
to ensure the completeness and accuracy of data restored:
	
Obtained an understanding of process followed by the management 
in consultation with management’s cyber and IT specialists for manual 
reconstruction of data and performed walkthrough of such process;
	
For the period of data loss where manual controls were implemented 
by the management and data was restored from alternative backups, 
performed reconciliations and tested additional samples on test check basis 
for ascertaining the accuracy and completeness of transactions in such period, 
with support of IT specialist as required.
•	
Communicated group audit instructions, including but not limited to 
audit risks identified for the cyber security incident to component auditors of the 
Target Company not audited by us and assessed the adequacy of procedures 
performed by them and held discussions to understand their conclusions on 
this incident; and
•	
We assessed whether the disclosures made by management in the 
consolidated financial statements are appropriate and adequate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
282
Information other than the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
6.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the 
Annual Report but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The Annual Report is expected to be made available to 
us after the date of this auditor’s report.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes available 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required 
to communicate the matter to those charged with 
governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
The accompanying consolidated financial statements 
have been approved by the Holding Company’s Board of 
Directors. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of 
the Act with respect to the preparation and presentation 
of these consolidated financial statements that give a 
true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance 
with the Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015 (as amended), and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India. The Holding 
Company’s Board of Directors are also responsible 
for ensuring accuracy of records including financial 
information considered necessary for the preparation 
of consolidated financial statements. Further, in 
terms of the provisions of the Act the respective 
Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding the assets of their respective 
companies and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the financial statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. These financial statements 
have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
8.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for assessing the ability 
of their respective companies to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the respective Board of Directors 
either intend to liquidate their respective companies or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to 
do so.
9.	
Those respective Board of Directors are also responsible 
for overseeing the financial reporting process of the 
companies included in the Group.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these consolidated financial statements.
11.	 As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Act, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement 
of 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control;
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding 
Company has adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls;
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management;
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Holding 
Company’s Board of Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the ability of 
the Group to continue as a going concern. If we 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
283
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern;
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation; and
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial statements of the entities 
or business activities within the Group, to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of 
financial statements of such entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements, of which 
we are the independent auditors. For the other 
entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements, which have been audited by the other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
12.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
13.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes 
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other Matters
15.	 The consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 March 2024 was audited by other auditors, 
Ashok T. Khedekar, Chartered Accountant, who have 
expressed an unmodified opinion vide their audit report 
dated 30 April 2025, whose report has been furnished to 
us by the Holding Company’s management and which 
has been relied upon by us for the purpose of our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements. Our opinion is 
not modified in respect of this matter.
16.	 We did not audit the financial statements/ consolidated 
financial statements of six subsidiaries, whose financial 
statements/ consolidated financial statements reflects 
total assets of ₹ 165,154 Lakhs as at 31 March 2025, 
total revenues of ₹ 204,617 lakhs and net cash outflows 
amounting to ₹ 1,756 lakhs for the year ended on that 
date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements. These financial statements/ consolidated 
financial statements have been audited by other 
auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by 
the management and our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the 
amounts and disclosures included in respect of these 
subsidiaries, and our report in terms of sub-section 
(3) of section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the 
aforesaid subsidiaries, are based solely on the reports of 
the other auditors.
	
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial 
statements, and our report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements below, are not modified in respect of the 
above matters with respect to our reliance on the work 
done by and the reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
17.	 As required by section 197(16) of the Act based on our 
audit and on the consideration of the reports of the 
other auditors, referred to in paragraph 16, on financial 
statements/ consolidated financial statements of the 
subsidiaries, we report that the Holding Company has 
paid remuneration to their directors during the year in 
accordance with the provisions of and limits laid down 
under section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. 
Further, we report that six subsidiaries incorporated 
in India whose financial statements/ consolidated 
financial statements have been audited under the 
Act have not paid or provided for any managerial 
remuneration during the year. Accordingly, reporting 
under section 197(16) of the Act is not applicable in 
respect of such subsidiary companies.
18.	 As required by clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 of Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the ‘Order’) issued by 
the Central Government of India in terms of section 
143(11) of the Act based on the consideration of the 
Order reports issued by us and by the respective 
other auditors as mentioned in paragraph 16 above, 
of companies included in the consolidated financial 
statements and covered under the Act we report 
that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks 
reported in the respective Order reports of such 
companies.
19.	 As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of the reports of the 
other auditors on financial statements/ consolidated 
financial statements and other financial information of 
the subsidiaries incorporated in India whose financial 
statements/ consolidated financial statements have 
been audited under the Act, we report, to the extent 
applicable, that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements;
b)	
Except for the matters stated in paragraph 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
284
19(f) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion, proper books of 
account as required by law relating to preparation 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the reports of the 
other auditors. Further, the back-up of the books 
of account and other books and papers of the 
Holding Company maintained in electronic mode 
has been maintained on servers physically located 
in India, on a daily basis, except during the period of 
cybersecurity incident as further explained in note 
54 to the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements;
c)	
The consolidated financial statements dealt with 
by this report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account maintained for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements;
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as 
amended);
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company and 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of its subsidiaries, covered under the Act, 
none of the directors of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries, are disqualified as on 31 March 
2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of 
section 164(2) of the Act.
f)	
The reservation relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
with respect to the consolidated financial 
statements are as stated in paragraph 19(b) above 
on reporting under section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 19(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended)
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries covered under the Act, and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate report in Annexure II, wherein we have 
expressed an unmodified opinion; and
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of 
our information and according to the explanations 
given to us and based on the consideration of 
the report of the other auditors on financial 
statements/ consolidated financial statements 
and other financial information of the subsidiaries, 
incorporated in India, whose financial statements/ 
consolidated financial statements have been 
audited under the Act:
i.	
The 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position of the 
Group;
ii.	
The Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses as at 31 March 2025;
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company during the year 
ended 31 March 2025. Further, there were no 
amounts which required to be transferred to 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the subsidiaries, covered under the Act, 
during the year ended 31 March 2025;
a.	
The respective managements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries, incorporated in India, whose 
financial statements/ consolidated financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, have represented to us 
and the other auditors of such subsidiaries respectively 
that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no funds 
have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or securities premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company 
or its subsidiaries to or in any persons or entities, 
including foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding 
Company, or any such subsidiaries (‘the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
b.	
The respective managements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries, incorporated in India, whose 
financial statements/ consolidated financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, have represented to 
us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, no funds have been 
received by the Holding Company or its subsidiaries 
from any persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(‘the Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding 
Company, or any such subsidiaries shall, whether 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed by us and 
that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries, 
as considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our or other 
auditors’ notice that has caused us or the other auditors 
to believe that the management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any material 
misstatement.
v.	
	The final dividend paid by the Holding Company, 
pursuant to the Scheme as referred in note 53 to the 
accompanying 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, 
during the year ended 31 March 2025 in respect of such 
dividend declared for the previous year is in accordance 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
285
with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend.
vi.	
	As stated in Note 51 to the consolidated financial 
statements and based on our examination which 
included test checks and that performed by the 
respective auditors of the subsidiaries, except for 
instances mentioned below, the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries, incorporated under the Act, in respect 
of financial year commencing on 1 April 2024, have used 
accounting software for maintaining its books of account 
which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility and the same have been operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. Further, during the course of our audit we and 
respective auditors of above referred subsidiaries did 
not come across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with other than the consequential impact 
of the exception given below. Furthermore, other than 
the consequential impact of the exceptions below, the 
audit trail has been preserved by the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries, as aforesaid, as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention where such feature 
was enabled.
Nature of exception noted
Details of exception
Instances of accounting software for maintaining books of 
account for which the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software
The audit trail feature was not enabled at the database level for 
accounting software to log any direct data changes, used for 
maintenance of all accounting records by the Holding Compa­
ny and its subsidiaries, incorporated under the Act.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Partner
Membership No.: 106815
UDIN: 25106815BMJIFM1157
Place: Mumbai
Date: 12 May 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
286
Annexure I
List of entities included in the consolidated financial statements (in addition to the Holding Company)
Subsidiaries
• 	
Ray Global Consumer Products Limited
• 	
Silver Spark Apparel Limited
•	
R&A Logistics Inc.
•	
Silverspark Middle East FZE
•	
Silver Spark Apparel Ethiopia PLC
•	
Raymond America Apparel Inc.
• 	
Celebrations Apparel Limited
• 	
Raymond (Europe) Limited
• 	
Jaykayorg AG
• 	
Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
287
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
consolidated 
financial 
statements under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of Raymond Lifestyle Limited (the 
‘Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
the ‘Group’) as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025, 
we have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company and its four subsidiaries, which are 
companies covered under the Act, as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries, which are companies 
covered under the Act, are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements criteria established 
by the company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
(‘IFC Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the ‘ICAI’). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of the company’s business, including adherence to 
the company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal 
Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries, as aforesaid, based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing issued by the ICAI prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements, and the IFC Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI. Those standards and the IFC Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements includes obtaining 
an understanding of such internal financial controls, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matter 
paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, 
as aforesaid.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
consolidated financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Annexure – II to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Raymond Lifestyle Limited 
on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
288
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion and based on the consideration of the 
reports of the other auditors on internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the subsidiaries, the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries, which are companies covered 
under the Act, have in all material respects, adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and such controls were operating 
effectively as at 31 March 2025, based on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the IFC Guidance Note 
issued by the ICAI.
Other Matter
9.	
We did not audit the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements insofar as it relates 
to four subsidiary companies, which are companies 
covered under the Act, whose financial statements 
reflect total assets of ₹ 155,942 lakhs and net assets of 
₹ 51,277 lakhs as at 31 March 2025, total revenues of 
₹ 182,432 lakhs and net cash outflows amounting to ₹ 
2,032 lakhs for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements, whose internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
have not been audited by us. The internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements in so far 
as it relates to such subsidiaries have been audited by 
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us 
by the management and our report on the adequacy and 
operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements for 
the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, as aforesaid, 
under section 143(3)(i) of the Act in so far as it relates to 
such subsidiaries is based solely on the reports of the 
auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not modified 
in respect of this matter with respect to our reliance on 
the work done by and on the reports of the other auditors.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Partner
Place: Mumbai 	
	
Membership No.: 106815
Date: 12 May 2025 	
UDIN: 25106815BMJIFM1157
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
289
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
Note
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
I
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
(a)	
Property, plant and equipment
2
 2,49,571 
 2,23,724 
(b)	
Capital work - in - progress
3
 12,369 
 5,076 
(c)	
Goodwill
4
 45,377 
 45,377 
(d)	
Other intangible assets
5
 4,77,768 
 4,77,760 
(e)	
Intangible assets under development
6
 3,464 
 2,804 
(f)	
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
7(a)
 14,257 
 13,770 
(ii)	
Other financial assets
8
 12,175 
 6,943 
(g)	
Deferred tax assets (net)
33
 1,14,504 
 1,14,404 
(h)	
Income tax assets (net)
 3,494 
 10,297 
(i)	
Other non-current assets
9
 6,897 
 6,319 
Total Non-current assets
 9,39,876 
 9,06,474 
2
Current assets
(a)	
Inventories
10
 1,75,675
 1,73,281
(b)	
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
7(b)
 82,327 
 76,233 
(ii)	
Trade receivables
11
 91,716 
 92,484 
(iii)	
Cash and cash equivalents
12
 26,456 
 8,195 
(iv)	
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
13
 13,632 
 7,811 
(v)	
Others financial assets
14
 4,441 
 4,061 
(c)	
Other current assets
15
 49,477 
 36,933 
Total Current Assets
 4,43,724 
 3,98,998 
TOTAL ASSETS
 13,83,600 
 13,05,472
II
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
(a)	
Equity share capital
16, 17
 1,218 
 153 
(b)	
Equity share capital pending allotment
46
 - 
 1,065 
(c)	
Other equity
 9,57,549 
 9,64,998 
Total Equity
 9,58,767
 9,66,216
2
Liabilities
Non-current Liabilities
(a)	
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
18(a)
 37,260 
 20,988 
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
47
 88,544 
 61,146 
(b)	
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
33
 1,825 
 1,100 
(c)	
Other non-current liabilities
19
 1,782 
 2,268 
Total Non-current Liabilities
 1,29,411 
 85,502 
Current liabilities
(a)	
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
18(b)
 89,697
 61,553
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
47
 13,340
 10,200
(iii)	
Trade payables
20
 (a)	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
 11,239 
 15,396
 (b)	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 1,21,128 
 1,10,532
(iv)	
Other financial liabilities
21
 38,943 
 38,716
(b)	
Other current liabilities
22
 12,175 
 9,954
(c)	
Provisions
23
 8,090 
 7,343
(d)	
Current tax liabilities (net)
 810 
 60
Total Current Liabilities
 2,95,422
 2,53,754
TOTAL LIABILITIES
 4,24,833
 3,39,256
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 13,83,600
 13,05,472
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah 
Gautam Hari Singhania 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Executive Chairman
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, 12 May 2025 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
290
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Particulars
Note
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Continuing operations
I
Income
Revenue from operations
24
 6,17,674 
 6,53,541
Other income
25
 18,324 
 15,439
Total income
 6,35,998 
 6,68,980
II
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
26
 1,21,965 
 1,26,764 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 1,60,741 
 1,72,112 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in progress and stock-in-trade
27
 (5,214)
 (6,282)
Employee benefits expense
28
 94,517 
 91,816 
Finance costs
29
 20,735 
 19,569 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
30
 32,135 
 24,630 
Other expenses
(a)	
Manufacturing and operating
31
 73,911
 69,017
(b)	
Other expenses
32
 1,24,979
 1,06,457
Total expenses
 6,23,769
 6,04,082
III
Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and tax (I-II)
 12,229
 64,898
IV
Exceptional items - (loss)
48
 (6,228)
 (919)
V
Profit from continuing operations before tax (III+IV)
 6,001
 63,979
VI
Tax (expense)/ credit
33
Current tax
 (2,912)
 (15,079)
Tax in respect of earlier years
 (628)
 -
Deferred tax
 1,358
 (948)
Total tax (expense)
 (2,182)
 (16,027)
VII
Profit for the year from continuing operations (V+VI)
 3,819
 47,952
VIII
Discontinued operations
46
Profit from discontinued operations
 -
 2,67,217
Tax (expenses) on discontinued operations
 -
 (50,697)
IX
Profit from discontinued operations (after tax)
 -
 2,16,520
X
Profit for the year (VII+IX)
 3,819
 2,64,472
XI
Other Comprehensive Income ('OCI')
Continuing operations
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
-	
Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations
37
 1,337
 150
-	
Income tax relating to these items
 (319)
 (21)
Items that will be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
-	
Exchange differences on translating financial statements of foreign operations
 (101)
 (98)
Total OCI - gain for the year (net of taxes)
 917
 31
XII
Total Comprehensive Income - gain for the year (X+XI)
 4,736
 2,64,503
XIII
Earnings per equity share of ₹ 2 each
36
Continuing operation
Basic and Diluted (in ₹)
 6
 79
Discontinued operation
Basic and Diluted (in ₹)
 -
 355
Continuing and discontinued operations
Basic and Diluted (in ₹)
 6
 434
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
This is the Consolidated Profit and loss referred to in our report of even date
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah 
Gautam Hari Singhania 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Executive Chairman
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, 12 May 2025 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
291
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Profit before tax - Continuing operations
 6,001
 63,979
Profit before tax - Discontinued operations
 -
 2,67,217
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
 32,135
 24,630
Finance costs
 20,735
 19,569
Provision towards slow moving and non moving inventories
 2,081
 1,060
Bad debts, advances, claims and deposits written off
 389
 477
Write back of provision for doubtful debts
 -
 (389)
Allowance for expected credit loss (net)
 2,216
 1,014
Provisions/ liabilities no longer required reversed/ written back
 (751)
 (584)
Interest income
 (6,068)
 (9,070)
Net (gain) on sale/ fair valuation of investments designated at FVTPL
 (2,321)
 (1,064)
Net unrealised gain on foreign currency translations
 (756)
 (421)
Gain on remeasurement of lease liabilities
 (283)
 (247)
Loss/ (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
 196
 (304)
Apportioned income from government grants
 (600)
 (571)
Share based payments (reversal)/ expenses
 (36)
 710
Gain on sale of FMCG business (refer note 46)
 -
 (2,67,217)
Operating profit before working capital changes
 52,938
 98,789
Adjustments in working capital:
Trade and other receivables
 (19,584)
 (43,821)
Inventories
 (4,475)
 (9,244)
Trade and other payables and provisions
 12,023
 (37,945)
Expenses adjusted during settlement of consideration by Raymond Limited 
(net) (refer note 50)
 (6,150)
 -
Cash generated from operating activities before taxes
 34,752
 7,779
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
 5,678
 (4,021)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities
 40,430
 3,758
B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from sale of FMCG business (net of taxes paid) (refer note 46)
 -
 2,26,903
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 320
 553
Interest received
 6,027
 8,383
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including 
adjustment for capital work-in-progress and intangible assets under 
development, capital advance and creditors for capital goods)
 (21,920)
 (15,329)
Placement of short term deposits with banks (net)
 (8,227)
 (6,454)
Purchase of non-current investments
 (5,476)
 (13,896)
Liquidation/ (Acquisition) of current investments (net)
 1,217
 (67,908)
Payment towards purchase of shares in subsidiary from non-controlling 
shareholders
 -
 (1,911)
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary
 -
 126
Net cash flows (used in)/ generated from investing activities
 (28,059)
 1,30,467
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
292
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
 Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from long term borrowings
 18,512
 -
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (10,212)
 (90,208)
Proceeds/ (repayment) of short term borrowings (net)
 36,292
 (20,334)
Dividend paid by Raymond Limited reimbursed to them (refer note 50)
 (6,000)
 -
Payment of interest and other finance cost
 (13,432)
 (16,066)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (11,844)
 (8,744)
Payment of interest on lease liabilities
 (7,470)
 (4,911)
Net cash flows generated from/ (used in) financing activities
 5,846
 (1,40,263)
NET INCREASE/ (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 18,217
 (6,038)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
 8,129
 14,167
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
 26,346
 8,129
Components of cash and cash equivalents (refer notes 12 and 21)
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Balances with banks:
 - In current accounts
 26,333
 8,101
Cash on hand
 123
 94
Less: Bank overdraft
 (110)
 (66)
Balance as per statement of cash flows
 26,346
 8,129
Notes:
1. 	
The consolidated statement of cash flow has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Ind AS 7 “Statement of 
Cash flows”.
2. 	
Refer note 47 for cash flow changes in liabilities arising from financial activities”
This is Consolidated Cash Flow Statement referred to in our report of even date.                                  
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
 Sameer Shah 
 Gautam Hari Singhania 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Executive Chairman
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
 Priti Alkari 
Company Secretary
 Mumbai, 12 May 2025 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
293
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Equity share capital (refer note 17A)
Particulars
 As at 31 March 2025
 As at 31 March 2024
Opening Balance
 153 
 153 
Less:- Cancellation of equity shares (refer note 50)
 (153)
 - 
Add:- Issue of new equity shares (refer note 50)
 1218 
 - 
Clsoing Balance
 1219 
 153 
Other equity (Refer note 17B)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Currency 
fluctuation 
reserve
 Total 
equity
 Non 
Controlling 
Interest
 Total
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Capital 
Contribution 
by Erstwhile 
Parent
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
Reserves
Legal 
reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
As at 1 April 2023
5,614
-
 732
 33
-
-
-
7,385
-
13,764
-
13,764
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle 
Business (refer note 50)
25,532
 548
 -
 -
 4,652
 7
 6,64,582
(8847)
 (4,396)
6,82,078
 6,598
6,88,676
Profit for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,64,472
 -
 2,64,472
 -
 2,64,472
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the 
year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 129
 (98)
 31
 -
 31
Loss of Control over subsidiaries (refer note 49)
 (92)
 (548)
 -
 -
 (2,631)
 -
 -
 3,271
 -
 (0)
 -
 (0)
Employee Stock Option Expenses
 -
 -
 -
 678
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 678
 -
 678
NCI Adjustment
 3,976
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,976
 (6,598)
 (2,622)
Total Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the 
year
 3,884
 (548)
 678
 (2,631)
 2,67,872
 (98)
 2,69,156
 (6,598)
 2,62,558
Balance as at 31 March 2024
35,030
 -
 732
 710
 2,021
 7
 6,64,582
 2,66,410
 (4,494)
 9,64,998
 -
 9,64,998
Profit for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,819
 -
 3,819
 -
 3,819
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the 
year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,018
 (101)
 917
 -
 917
Employee Stock Option Expenses
 -
 -
 -
 (36)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (36)
 -
 (36)
Expense adjusted through reserves*
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (6,151)
 -
 (6,151)
 -
 (6,151)
Dividends
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (6,000)
 -
 (6,000)
 -
 (6,000)
Total Comprehensive Income / (Loss) for the 
year
 -
 -
 -
 (36)
 -
 -
 -
 (7,314)
 (101)
 (7,452)
 -
 (7,452)
Balance as at 31 March 2025
35,030
 -
 732
 674
 2,021
 7
 6,64,582
 2,59,096
 (4,595)
 9,57,549
 -
 9,57,549
* Expenses pertaining to period from 01 April 2024 to 30 June 2024 (refer note 50)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
294
Nature and purpose of reserves:
Securities premium
Amount recognised on consideration of merger (on issue of shares) in excess of the par value has been classified as securities 
premium. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Act
Capital reserve
Any profit or loss on purchase, issue or cancellation of the Company's own equity instrument is transferred to capital reserve
Capital reserve / Post-merger
Reserve arise on merger on lifestyle business as a part of the scheme
Capital redemption reserve
Reserve created during buy back of equity shares and it is a non-distributable reserve
Share options outstanding account
The stock option outstanding account is used to record the value of equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees. 
The amounts recorded in this account are transferred to the securities premium account upon exercise of stock options by employees, 
as applicable. In case of forfeiture, corresponding balance is transferred to general reserve
General reserve
This represents appropriation of profit by the Company
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises of current year and prior years undistributed earnings/ (loss) after taxes
Remeasurement of defined benefit plan
Differences between the interest income on plan assets and the return actually achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the 
year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience adjustments within the plans, are recognised in OCI and are adjusted to 
retained earnings
Equity instruments through OCI
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investment in equity instrument in OCI. This amount will be 
reclassified to retained earnings on derecognition of such equity instrument.
Legal reserve
Legal Reserve is the reserve created in certain entities of the Group operating in foreign countries as required by applicable local laws. 
The same will be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the local laws.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
This is the consolidated statement of changes in equity referred to in our report of even date
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
 Sameer Shah 
 Gautam Hari Singhania 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Executive Chairman
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
 Priti Alkari 
Company Secretary
 Mumbai, 12 May 2025 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
295
Note 1 - STATEMENT OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1         (i)	
Raymond 
Lifestyle 
Limited 
('RLL' 
or 
the 
'Company' or the 'Holding Company') [CIN: 
L74999MH2018PLC316288] and its subsidiaries 
(the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as the ‘Group’) mainly deals in Textiles, 
Lifestyle, Branded apparel, etc. The Group have 
its wide network of operations in local as well as in 
foreign markets. The Group sells its products through 
multiple channels including wholesale, franchisee, 
retail etc.
(a)	
Basis of preparation
(i) 	
Compliance with Ind AS
	
These consolidated financial statements ('financial 
statements') have been prepared in accordance 
with the Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter 
referred to as the 'Ind AS') as notified by Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 ('Act') read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended, and other relevant provisions of 
the Act and guidelines issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI).
	
The accounting policies are applied consistently to 
all the periods presented in the financial statements. 
The financial statements of the Group have been 
consolidated using uniform accounting policies.
(ii)	
The Board of the Company at its meeting held on 
27th April, 2023 approved the Composite Scheme 
of Arrangement between Raymond Limited and 
Raymond 
Lifestyle 
Limited 
(“RLL”) 
(formerly 
known as Raymond Consumer Care Limited) and 
Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited and their 
respective shareholders (“Scheme”). The Scheme 
inter-alia provides for:
	
Demerger of the lifestyle business from Raymond 
Limited (“RL”) and the lifestyle business carried out 
through subsidiaries of RL along with its strategic 
investment in Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited 
(“RGCTL”) into RLL and issuance of equity shares of 
RLL to all the shareholders of RL through Composite 
Scheme of Arrangement (“Demerger”); and
	
Amalgamation of RGCTL with RLL along with the 
consequential reduction and cancellation of the 
paid-up share capital of RLL held by Ray Global 
Consumer Trading Limited.
	
The Scheme is approved by Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal and with submission of the 
same with statutory authorities is effective from 30th 
June, 2024. These financial statements have been 
prepared to give impact of this scheme (with effect 
from appointed date 01st April, 2023).
(iii)	 Historical cost convention
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis, except for the following:
1)	
certain financial assets and liabilities that are 
measured at fair value;
2)	
assets held for sale - measured at the lower of 
carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell;
3)	
defined benefit plans - plan assets measured at 
fair value;
(iv)	 Current non-current classification
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as 
current or non-current based on the Group’s normal 
operating cycle for each of its businesses, as per the 
criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Act.
(v)	
Rounding of amounts
	
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements 
and notes have been rounded off to the nearest 
lakhs as per the requirement of Schedule III, unless 
otherwise stated.
(b)	
Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
	
Subsidiaries
	
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Holding 
Company has control. The Holding Company controls an 
entity when the Holding Company is exposed to, or has 
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the 
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Holding Company. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
	
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account 
for business combinations by the Group.
	
The Group combines the financial statements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries line by line adding 
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income 
and expenses. Intercompany transactions, balances 
and unrealised gains on transactions between group 
companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also 
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the transferred asset. Accounting policies 
of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the 
Holding Company.
	
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of 
subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and consolidated balance sheet 
respectively.
	
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially 
measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interests’ 
proportionate 
share 
of 
the 
acquiree’s 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
296
identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement 
basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. 
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at 
initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share 
of subsequent changes in equity of subsidiaries.
(c)	
Use of estimates
	
The estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements are continuously evaluated by the 
Group and are based on historical experience and various 
other assumptions and factors (including expectations of 
future events) that the Group believes to be reasonable 
under the existing circumstances. Differences between 
actual results and estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the results are known/materialised.
	
The said estimates are based on the facts and events, that 
existed as at the reporting date, or that occurred after that 
date but provide additional evidence about conditions 
existing as at the reporting date. refer note 1(ii)
(d)	
Property, plant and equipment (including Capital 
Work-in-Progress)
	
The Group had applied for the one time transition 
exemption of considering the carrying cost on the 
transition date i.e. 1st April, 2015 as the deemed cost 
under IND AS, regarded thereafter as historical cost.
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items 
of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical 
cost less depreciation and impairment, if any. Historical 
cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to 
the acquisition of the items.
	
Capital Work-in-progress includes expenditure incurred 
till the assets are put into intended use. Capital Work-
in-Progress are measured at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to the Statement of Profit 
and Loss during the reporting period in which they are 
incurred.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
	
Depreciation on Factory Buildings, specific non factory 
building and Plant and Equipment, is provided as per the 
Straight Line Method and in case of other assets as per the 
Written Down Value Method, over the estimated useful 
lives of assets. Leasehold land is amortised over period 
of lease. Leasehold improvements are amortised over the 
period of lease or estimated useful life whichever is lower.
	
The Group depreciates its property, plant and equipment 
(PPE) over the useful life in the manner prescribed in 
Schedule II to the Act. The Group believes that useful life 
of assets are same as those prescribed in Schedule II to 
the Act, except for plant and equipment for which, based 
on technical evaluation, useful life has been estimated to 
be different from that prescribed in Schedule II of the Act.
	
Useful life considered for calculation of depreciation for 
various assets class are as follows-
Asset Class
Useful Life
Factory Building
30 years
Non- Factory Building
60 years
Continuous Process Plant
20 years
(Plant and Equipment)
Other Plant and Equipment
7-24 years
Furniture and Fixtures
10 years
Office Equipment
5 years
Vehicles
8 years
Boat and water equipments
13 years
	
The residual values are not more than 5% of the original 
cost of the asset. The assets residual values and useful 
lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end 
of each reporting period.
	
Depreciation on additions / deletions is calculated pro-
rata from the month of such addition / deletion, as the 
case maybe.
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
included in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(e)	
Intangible assets (including intangible assets under 
development)
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are carried at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Cost of a non-monetary asset 
acquired in exchange of another non-monetary asset is 
measured at fair value. Intangible assets are amortised on 
a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
	
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
	
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included 
in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised but is 
tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might 
be impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Other identified intangible assets 
acquired through business combination is ascertain on 
case to case basis.
	
Amortisation and Impairment method
	
The Group amortizes intangible assets with a finite 
useful life using the straight-line method over following 
period in the statement of profit and loss under the head 
depreciation and amortization expense.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
297
Asset Class
Useful Life
Computer Software
3 years
	
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for 
finite-life intangible assets is reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. 
Indefinite-life intangible assets comprises of trademarks 
and brands, for which there is no foreseeable limit to the 
period over which they are expected to generate net cash 
inflows. These are considered to have an indefinite life, 
given the strength and durability of the brands and the level 
of marketing support. For indefinite-life intangible assets, 
the assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to 
determine whether it continues, if not, it is impaired or 
changed prospectively basis revised estimates.	
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
	
An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal (i.e., at 
the date the recipient obtains control) or when no future 
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
(f)	
Lease
	
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a 
contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
	
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control 
the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses 
whether: (i) the contract involves the use of an identified 
asset (ii) the Group has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period of the 
lease and (iii) the Group has the right to direct the use of 
the asset.
	
Group as a lessee
	
At lease commencement date, the Group recognises a 
right-of-use assets and a lease liabilities on the balance 
sheet. The right-of-use asset is measured at cost, which is 
made up of the initial measurement of the lease liabilities, 
any initial direct costs incurred by the Group and any lease 
payments made in advance of the lease commencement 
date.
	
The Group depreciates the right-of-use assets on a 
straight-line basis from the lease commencement date 
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-
use assets or the end of the lease term. The Group also 
assesses the right-of-use assets for impairment when 
such indicators exist.
	
At the commencement date of lease, the Group measures 
the lease liabilities at the present value of the lease 
payments to be made over the lease term, discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease if that rate is 
readily available or the Group’s incremental borrowing 
rate.
	
The Group cannot readily determine the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental 
borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease liabilities.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability are made up of fixed payments (including 
in substance, fixed), and payments arising from options 
reasonably certain to be exercised. Subsequent to 
initial measurement, the liability will be reduced for 
payments made and increased for interest expenses. It is 
remeasured to reflect any reassessment or modification.
	
When the lease liability is remeasured, the corresponding 
adjustment is reflected in the right-of-use asset or 
Statement of profit and loss, as the case may be.
	
The Group has elected to account for short-term leases 
and leases of low-value assets using the exemption given 
under Ind AS 116, Leases. Instead of recognising a right-
of-use asset and lease liability, the payments in relation 
to these are recognised as an expense in profit or loss 
on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another 
systematic basis if that basis is more representative of the 
pattern of the Group’s benefit.
	
Group as a lessor
	
Leases for which the Group is a lessor classified as finance 
or operating lease
	
Lease income from operating leases where the Group is 
a lessor is recognised in income on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term unless the receipts are structured 
to increase in line with expected general inflation to 
compensate for the excepted inflationary cost increases. 
The respective leased assets are included in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet based on their nature.
(g)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise 
cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with 
an original maturity of three months or less, that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash 
flows, Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on 
hand, bank overdraft, deposits held at call with financial 
institutions, other short-term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less that are 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which 
are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(h)	
Inventories
	
Inventories of Raw Materials, Work-in-Progress, Stores 
and spares, Finished Goods and Stock-in-trade are stated 
'at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower'. Goods-
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
298
in-Transit are stated 'at cost'. Cost comprise all cost of 
purchase, cost of conversion and other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Cost formulae used are 'First-in-First-out', 
'Weighted Average cost' or 'Specific identification', as 
applicable. Due allowance is estimated and made for 
defective and obsolete items, wherever necessary.
	
All the costs incurred on unfinished / finished jobs, but 
not invoiced and dispatched, under conversion contracts, 
are carried forward as "Accumulated Costs on Conversion 
Contracts", at lower of cost and net realisable value.
	
The inventories resulting from intra-group transactions 
have been stated at cost after deducting unrealised profit 
on such transactions.
(i)	
Investments and other financial assets
(i)	
Classification
	
The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
(1)	
those to be measured subsequently at fair value 
(either through other comprehensive income, or 
through Profit and Loss), and
(2)	
those measured at amortised cost.
	
The classification depends on the Group's business 
model for managing the financial assets and the 
contractual terms of the cash flows.
	
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses 
will either be recorded in the Profit and Loss or other 
comprehensive income. For investments in debt 
instruments, this will depend on the business model 
in which the investment is held. For investments 
in equity instruments, this will depend on whether 
the Group has made an irrevocable election at the 
time of initial recognition to account for the equity 
investment at fair value through other comprehensive 
income.
(ii)	
Measurement
	
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial 
asset (excluding trade receivables which do not 
contain a significant financing component (Refer 
1 (q) below)) at its fair value. Transaction costs 
of financial assets carried at fair value through 
Profit and Loss are expensed in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Debt instruments:
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Group's business model for managing 
the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the 
asset. The Group classifies its debt instruments into 
following categories:
(a)	
Amortised cost: Assets that are held for 
collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments 
of principal and interest are measured at 
amortised cost. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in other income 
using the effective interest rate method.
(b)	
Fair value through profit and loss: Assets that 
do not meet the criteria for amortised cost are 
measured at fair value through Profit and Loss. 
Interest income from these financial assets is 
included in other income.
	
Equity instruments:
	
The Group subsequently measures all equity 
investments at fair value. Where the Group's 
management has elected to present fair value 
gains and losses on equity investments in other 
comprehensive income, there is no subsequent 
reclassification of fair value gains and losses to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss. Dividends from such 
investments are recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss as other income when 
the Group's right to receive payments is established.
(iii)	 Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group measures the expected credit loss 
associated with its assets based on historical trend, 
industry practices and the business environment in 
which the entity operates or any other appropriate 
basis. 
The 
impairment 
methodology 
applied 
depends on whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk.
(iv)	 Income recognition
	
Interest income
	
Interest income from debt instruments is recognised 
using the effective interest rate method.
	
Dividends
	
Dividends are recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss only when the right to 
receive payment is established.
(j)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that they might 
be impaired. Other assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset's carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset's fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. 
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
299
grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent 
of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets 
(cash-generating units). Assets other than goodwill that 
suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal 
of the impairment at the end of each reporting period.
(k)	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through a 
sale transaction rather than through continuing use and 
a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured 
at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, 
assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets 
and contractual rights under insurance contracts, which 
are specifically exempt from this requirement.
	
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised 
while they are classified as held for sale.
(l)	
Derivative financial instruments
	
Derivative financial instruments such as forward 
contracts, option contracts and cross currency swaps, 
to hedge its foreign currency risks are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered 
into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value 
with changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss in the period when they arise.
(m)	 Segment reporting:
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief executive 
officer, the chief financial officer and the Executive 
chairman and managing director, all of them constitute as 
chief operating decision maker ('CODM').
(n)	
Borrowings
	
Borrowings are initially recognised at net of transaction 
costs incurred and measured at amortised cost. Any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
(o)	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest, ancillary costs 
and other costs in connection with the borrowing of 
funds and exchange differences arising from foreign 
currency borrowings to the extent they are regarded as an 
adjustment to interest costs..
	
Interest and other borrowing costs attributable to 
qualifying assets are capitalised upto the date such 
assets are ready for their intended use. Other interest and 
borrowing costs are charged to Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
(p)	
Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future 
operating losses.
	
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting 
period. The discount rate used to determine the present 
value is a pre tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the liability. The increase in the provision due to 
the passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
	
Contingent Liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible 
obligations that arise from past events but their existence 
will be confirmed by the occurrence or non occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within 
the control of the Group or where any present obligation 
cannot be measured in terms of future outflow of 
resources or where a reliable estimate of the obligation 
cannot be made.
	
A contingent asset is disclosed, where an inflow of 
economic benefits is probable. The Group shall not 
recognize a contingent asset unless the recovery is 
virtually certain.
(q)	
Revenue recognition
	
The Group derives revenues primarily from sale of 
manufactured goods, traded goods and related services. 
	
Revenue is recognized on satisfaction of performance 
obligation upon transfer of control of promised products 
or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those 
products or services.
	
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price 
(which is the consideration, adjusted to discounts, 
incentives and returns, etc., if any) that is allocated to that 
performance obligation. These are generally accounted 
for as variable consideration estimated in the same 
period the related sales occur. The methodology and 
assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are 
monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual 
and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience 
and projected market conditions.
	
The Group operates a loyalty programme for the customers 
and franchisees of the Group for the sale of goods. The 
customers accumulate points for purchases made 
which entitles them to discount on future purchases. A 
contract liability for the award points is recognized at the 
time of the sale. Revenue is recognized when the points 
are redeemed or on expiry. The expenditure of loyalty 
programme is netted-off to revenue.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
300
	
The Group recognises provision for sales return, based 
on the historical results, measured on net basis of the 
margin of the sale. Therefore, a refund liability, included 
in other current liabilities, are recognized for the products 
expected to be returned.
	
The Group does not expect to have any contracts where 
the period between the transfer of the promised goods or 
services to the customer and payment by the customer 
exceeds one year. As a consequence, it does not adjust 
any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.
	
The Group satisfies a performance obligation and 
recognises revenue over time, if one of the following 
criteria is met:
1.	
The 
customer 
simultaneously 
receives 
and 
consumes the benefits provided by the Group's 
performance as the Group performs; or
2.	
The Group's performance creates or enhances an 
asset that the customer controls as the asset is 
created or enhanced; or
3.	
The Group's performance does not create an asset 
with an alternative use to the Group and an entity 
has an enforceable right to payment for performance 
completed to date.
	
For performance obligations where one of the above 
conditions are not met, revenue is recognised at the point 
in time at which the performance obligation is satisfied.
	
Revenue from sale of products and services are recognised 
at the time of satisfaction of performance obligation, from 
the financial year in which the entity's right to payment for 
performance completed, is established. In determining 
whether an entity has right to payment, the entity shall 
consider whether it would have an enforceable right to 
demand or retain payment for performance completed 
to date if the contract were to be terminated before 
completion for reasons other than entity's failure to 
perform as per the terms of the contract.
	
Other operating revenue - export incentives
	
Export Incentives under various schemes are accounted 
in the year of export.
	
Trade receivables
	
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for 
goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business and reflects company's unconditional right 
to consideration (that is, payment is due only on the 
passage of time). Trade receivables of the Company, are 
recognised initially at the transaction price as they do not 
contain significant financing components. The company 
holds the trade receivables with the objective of collecting 
the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them 
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less loss allowance.
(r)	
Employee benefits
(i)	
Short-term obligations
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related service are 
recognised in respect of employees’ services up to 
the end of the reporting period and are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities 
are settled.
(ii)	
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
	
The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave that are 
not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months 
are measured as the present value of expected 
future payments to be made in respect of services 
provided by employees up to the end of the reporting 
period using the projected unit credit method. The 
benefits are discounted using the discount rates 
for Government Securities (G-Sec) at the end of the 
reporting period that have terms approximating to 
the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements 
as a result of experience adjustments and changes 
in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
(iii)	 Post-employment obligations
	
The Group operates the following post-employment 
schemes:
(a)	
defined benefit plans such as gratuity, provident 
fund and pension; and
(b)	
defined contribution plans
	
Pension and Gratuity obligations
	
The liability or asset recognised in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension 
and gratuity plans is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period 
less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method.
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
	
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined 
benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. 
This cost is included in employee benefit expense in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
301
they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and in 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
	
Provident fund
	
Defined Contribution Plans such as Provident Fund 
etc., are charged to the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss as incurred.
	
In accordance with the Employees' Provident Fund 
and Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952, all eligible 
employees of the Group are entitled to receive 
benefits under the provident fund plan in which both 
the employee and employer (at a determined rate) 
contribute monthly to “Raymond Limited Employee’s 
Provident Fund Trust”, a Trust set up by the Group to 
manage the investments and distribute the amounts 
to employees at the time of separation from the 
Company or retirement, whichever is earlier. This 
plan is a defined obligation plan as the Group is 
obligated to provide its members a rate of return 
which should, at a minimum, meet the interest rate 
declared by government administered provident 
fund. A part of the Group's contribution is transferred 
to government-administered pension fund. The 
contributions made by the Group and the shortfall of 
interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in the 
profit or loss under "Employee benefits expense".
	
Termination benefits
	
Termination benefits are payable when employment 
is terminated by the Group before the normal 
retirement date, or when an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. 
The Group recognises termination benefits at the 
earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can 
no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) 
when the Group recognises costs for a restructuring 
that is within the scope of Ind AS 37 and involves the 
payment of terminations benefits. In the case of an 
offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the 
termination benefits are measured based on the 
number of employees expected to accept the offer. 
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the 
end of the reporting period are discounted to present 
value.
(iv)	 Share-based payments
	
Share-based compensation benefits are provided 
to employees via the " J.K. Helene Curtis Limited 
- Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018 (JKHC 
ESOP 2018) and Raymond Consumer Care Private 
Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 
(RCCPL ESOP 2019)" (ESOP scheme). The fair 
value of options granted under the ESOP scheme is 
recognised as an employee benefits expense with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The total amount 
to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted:
• 	
including any market performance conditions 
(e.g., the entity’s share price)
• 	
excluding the impact of any service and non-
market performance vesting conditions (e.g. 
profitability, sales growth targets and remaining 
an employee of the entity over a specified time 
period), and
• 	
including the impact of any non-vesting 
conditions (e.g. the requirement for employees 
to serve or hold shares for a specific period of 
time).
	
The total expense is recognised over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the 
specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
	
The Company has created a Raymond Limited ESOP 
Trust for implementation of the said ESOP scheme. 
The Company treats the ESOP trust as its extension 
and shares held by ESOP Trust are treated as treasury 
shares.
(s)	
Foreign currency transactions
(i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
The financial statements are presented in Indian 
rupee (INR), which is Group's functional and 
presentation currency.
(ii)	
Transactions and balances
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised 
at the prevailing exchange rates on the transaction 
dates. Realised gains and losses on settlement of 
foreign currency transactions are recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities at 
the year-end are translated at the year-end exchange 
rates and the resultant exchange differences are 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in foreign 
currencies are not translated thereafter.
(iii)	 Group Companies
	
The results and financial position of foreign 
operations that have a functional currency different 
from the presentation currency are translated into 
the presentation currency as follows:
•	
assets and liabilities are translated at the 
closing rate at the date of that balance sheet
•	
income and expenses are translated at 
average exchange rates (unless this is not a 
reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction 
dates, in which case income and expenses are 
translated at the dates of the transactions), On 
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
302
Consolidation, exchange differences arising 
from the translation of any net investment 
in foreign entities are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and all resulting 
exchange differences are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
(t)	
Income tax
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period's taxable income based on 
the applicable income tax rate adjusted by changes in 
deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary 
differences and to unused tax losses.
	
The current income tax expense is calculated on the 
basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted 
at the end of the reporting period in the countries where 
the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, and generate 
taxable income. Group periodically evaluates positions 
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It 
establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
	
There are many transactions and calculations for which 
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The group 
recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on 
estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. The 
uncertain tax positions are measured at the amount 
expected to be paid to taxation authorities when the 
group determines that the probable outflow of economic 
resources will occur. Where the final tax outcome of these 
matters is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the current and 
deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in 
which such determination is made.
	
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in 
the financial statement. Deferred income tax is determined 
using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period 
and are excepted to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available to 
utilise those temporary differences and losses.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are off set where the Group has a legally 
enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on 
a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, respectively.
	
Minimum Alternate Tax credit is recognised as deferred 
tax asset only when and to the extent there is convincing 
evidence that the Group will pay normal income tax during 
the specified period. Such asset is reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and the carrying amount of the MAT 
credit asset is written down to the extent there is no longer 
a convincing evidence to the effect that the Group will pay 
normal income tax during the specified period.
(u)	
Earnings Per Share
	
Basic earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
-	
the profit/loss attributable to owners,
-	
by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for 
bonus elements in equity shares issued during the 
year and excluding treasury shares.
	
Diluted earnings per share
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the 
determination of basic earnings per share to take into 
account:
-	
the after income tax effect of interest and other 
financing costs associated with dilutive potential 
equity shares, and
-	
the weighted average number of additional equity 
shares that would have been outstanding assuming 
the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
(v)	
Government grants
	
Grants from the government are recognised at their 
fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the 
grant will be received and the Group will comply with all 
attached conditions.
	
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, 
plant and equipment are included in non-current liabilities 
as deferred income and are credited to Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight - line basis over 
the expected lives of related assets and presented within 
other income.
(w)	 Manufacturing and operating expenses
	
The Group discloses separately manufacturing and 
operating expenses which are directly linked to respective 
activities, as part of 'Other expenses'.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
303
(x)	
Exceptional items
	
When items of income and expense within statement of 
profit and loss from ordinary activities are of such size, 
nature or incidence that their disclosure is relevant to 
explain the performance of the enterprise for the period, 
the nature and amount of such material items are 
disclosed separately as exceptional items.
(y)	
Recent pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards under 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued 
from time to time. For the year ended 31 March 2025, MCA 
has notified amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating 
to sale and leaseback transactions, which is applicable to 
the Company w.e.f. 1st April, 2024. The Holding Company 
has reviewed the new pronouncements and based on its 
evaluation has determined that it's not likely to have any 
significant impact in its financial statements.
1(ii): Critical estimates and judgements -
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
requires the use of accounting estimates which 
by definition will seldom equal the actual results. 
Management also need to exercise judgement in applying 
the Group's accounting policies.
	
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and items 
which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to 
estimates and assumptions turning out to be different 
than those originally assessed. Detailed information about 
each of these estimates and judgements is included in 
relevant notes together with information about the basis 
of calculation for each affected line item in the financial 
statements.
The areas involving critical estimates or judgement are:
(i)	
Estimated useful life of PPE and intangible assets - refer 
notes 2 and 5
	
The Company reviews the useful lives of property, plant and 
equipment, Investment properties and intangible assets 
at the end of each reporting period. This reassessment 
may result in change in depreciation and amortisation 
expense in future periods.
(ii)	
Inventory write down - refer note 10
	
The group reviews the allowance for defective and 
obsolete items inventory, wherever necessary at the end 
of each reporting period.
(iii)	 Estimation of current tax expenses, current tax payable 
and recognition of deferred tax assets for carried forward 
tax losses - refer note 33
	
The group reviews the carrying amount of tax expenses, 
deferred tax assets(including MAT credit) and tax payable 
at the end of each reporting period.
(iv) 	 Probable outcome of matters included under Contingent 
Liabilities - refer note 35
	
Management has estimated the possible outflow of 
resources at the end of each annual reporting financial 
year, if any, in respect of contingencies/litigations against 
the group as it is not possible to predict the outcome of 
pending matters with accuracy.
(v)	
Estimation of Defined benefit obligation - refer note 37
	
The cost of post-employment benefits is determined 
using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves 
making assumptions about discount rates, future salary 
increases and mortality rates. Due to the long term nature 
of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant 
uncertainty.
(vi)	 Estimated fair value of unlisted securities - refer note 41
(vii)	 Estimated goodwill impairment - refer note 4
(viii) Leases – Estimating the incremental borrowing rate -refer 
note no 47
	
The Company cannot readily determine the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental 
borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR is 
the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to 
borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security, the 
fund necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the 
right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
(ix)	 Allowance for doubtful debts
	
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are 
stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Under 
Ind AS, impairment allowance has been determined 
based on Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model. Estimated 
irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the 
receivable balance and historical experience. Individual 
trade receivables are written off if the same are not 
collectible.
(x) 	 Sales return
	
The Company accounts for sales returns accrual by 
recording an allowance for sales returns concurrent with 
the recognition of revenue at the time of a product sale. 
This allowance is based on the Company’s estimate of 
expected sales returns. The Company deals in various 
products and operates in various markets. Accordingly, 
the estimate of sales returns is determined primarily by 
the Company’s historical experience in the markets in 
which the Company operates.
(xi) 	 Share-based payments
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payments requires 
determination of the most appropriate valuation model, 
which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the 
grant. The estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including 
the expected life of the option, volatility and dividend yield 
and making assumptions about them.
Summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
304
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
2 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Particulars
Freehold 
Land
 Leasehold 
Improvement
 Buildings
 Plant and 
Machinery
 Furniture 
and 
fixtures
 Vehicles
 Office 
& Other 
Equipment
 Electrical 
Installation
Computers 
and 
servers
Right to Use Assets
 Total
 
Leasehold 
Land
 
Leasehold 
Buildings
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2023
-
-
179
1,083
35
13
13
 29
 99
18
1,786
3,255
Transfer under the scheme of merger of 
Lifestyle Business (refer note 50)
18,257
1,280
33,424
85,877
1,259
146
597
-
-
20,174
33,482
1,94,496
Transferred from account of slump sale (refer note 
46)
 -
 577
 -
 431
 281
 -
 122
 37
 394
 -
 -
 1,843
Additions
 109
 2,443
 497
 4,068
 129
 1,484
 215
 5
 7
 -
 44,901
 53,857
Disposals
 41
 -
 86
 157
 15
 62
 7
 0
 95
 -
 2,948
 3,411
Transferred on account of slump sale (refer note 
46)
 -
 577
 -
 431
 281
 -
 122
 37
 394
 -
 -
 1,843
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 18,325
 3,723
 34,014
 90,871
 1,407
 1,581
 818
 34
 11
 20,192
 77,221
 2,48,196
Additions
 -
 4,721
 1,140
 6,144
 1,320
 758
 393
 -
 5
 -
 45,493
 59,974
Disposals
 93
 492
 848
 1,410
 198
 35
 5
 -
 -
 -
 2,894
 5,975
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 18,232
 7,952
 34,307
 95,605
 2,530
 2,304
 1,206
 34
 16
 20,192
 1,19,820
 3,02,196
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 -
 -
 92
 115
 2
 10
 11
 8
 96
 2
 1,436
 1,772
Transferred from account of slump sale (refer note 
46)
 -
 508
 -
 193
 136
 -
 96
 13
 311
 -
 -
 1,257
Depreciation charged for the year
 -
 536
 1,667
 10,799
 295
 128
 92
 6
 2
 97
 10,985
 24,607
Disposals
 -
 -
 9
 92
 15
 -
 3
 0
 94
 -
 1,692
 1,906
Transferred on account of slump sale (refer note 
46)
 -
 508
 -
 193
 136
 -
 96
 13
 311
 -
 -
 1,257
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 -
 536
 1,749
 10,822
 282
 138
 100
 14
 4
 98
 10,729
 24,473
Depreciation charged for the year
 -
 1,166
 2,320
 12,096
 404
 339
 173
 7
 3
 15
 15,521
 32,043
Disposals
 -
 460
 638
 1,239
 189
 34
 5
 -
 -
 -
 1,326
 3,891
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 -
 1,242
 3,432
 21,679
 496
 444
 268
 21
 7
 113
 24,923
 52,625
Net carrying amount
As at 31 March 2025
 18,232
 6,710
 30,875
 73,926
 2,034
 1,860
 938
 13
 9
 20,078
 94,896
 2,49,571
As at 31 March 2024
 18,325
 3,187
 32,265
 80,049
 1,125
 1,443
 718
 20
 7
 20,093
 66,492
 2,23,724
Note:
(i) 	
Refer note 35 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.	
	
	
	
(ii) 	
Refer note 34 For information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security.
(iii)	
Pursuant to demerger,  the title deed of freehold land and building are in the process of getting re-cordial transfer in the name of Company in the record of government authorities. Further, 
all the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the Company (lessee).
(iv) 	
Refer note 47 for disclosure on leased assets and related lease liabilities.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
305
3 Capital Work In Progress (CWIP)
 Balance as at 1 April 2023
 1,615
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 50)
 Additions
 6,848
Assets Capitalised
 3,387
 Balance as at 31 March 2024
 5,076
 Additions
11,337
Assets Capitalised
4,044
 Balance as at 31 March 2025
 12,369
CWIP represents capital expenditure related to plant upgradation for suiting division
Note: CWIP ageing schedule 
CWIP ageing schedule
Particulars
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Less than 1 
year
 1-2 year
 2-3 years
 more than 3 
years
Total
31 March 2025
Project in progress
9,115
2,933
 -
320
12,369
Project temporary suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
31 March 2024
Project in progress
 4,207
 549
 -
 320
 5,076
Project temporary suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Projects Delayed as at 31 March 2025
Particulars
₹ in lakhs
Reason for delay
SAP HANA
 320 The Company is upgrading its ERP system by implementing S4 HANA (i.e. updated 
version of SAP). This project was kept on hold due to COVID 19 for two years, during 
the financial year 2022-2023, the Company have resumed this project and expects to 
get it completed by end of financial year 2025-26.
Textile Plant Upgradation
 266 Capex related to plant upgradation to be done at suiting plants. Textile Plant 
Upgradation capex have multiple agencies associated for supplies of machineries 
and installation. Machinery and parts have long lead time and also need installation. 
Due to slow supplies of Machinery and installation projects are getting delayed from 
vendor. The Company expects all such plant upgradations will get completed by end 
of financial year 2025-26
(i)	
Refer note 35 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
(ii) 	
Refer note 34 For information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security.
(iii)	
There are no Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) that are overdue or have exceeded their original plan/ budget.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
306
Note: 4 Goodwill
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Movement in goodwill
Opening Balance
 45,377
-
Transfer under the scheme of merger of Lifestyle Business (refer note 50)
-
45,377
Additions
 -
 -
Impairment
 -
 -
Closing Balance
 45,377
 45,377
Note:
(i) 	
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired. If any such 
indication exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. If such recoverable amount of the asset or the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs to is less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. The reduction is treated as an impairment loss and is recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
The Group has performed an impairment assessment for goodwill for year ended 31 March 2025 and considering the market 
value of the Company being higher than carrying amount of goodwill, no impairment on goodwill has been recognised.
5 Other Intangible assets
Particulars
Computer 
software
Brand
Distribution Network 
& Customer 
Relationship
Total
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 386 
 - 
 - 
 386 
Transfer under the scheme of merger of 
Lifestyle Business (refer note 50)
 1,156 
 3,57,100 
 1,20,517 
 4,78,773 
Additions
 28 
 - 
 - 
 28 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transferred to account of slump sale 
(refer note 46)
 (4)
 - 
 - 
 (4)
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 1,566 
 3,57,100 
 1,20,517 
 4,79,183 
Additions
 100 
 - 
 - 
 100 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transferred to account of slump sale
 1,667 
 3,57,100 
 1,20,517 
 4,79,284 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
Accumulated amortization
 1,403 
 - 
 - 
 1,403 
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 24 
 - 
 - 
 24 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 (4)
 - 
 - 
 (4)
Transferred to account of slump sale 
(refer note 46)
 1,427 
 - 
 - 
 1,427 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 92 
 - 
 - 
 92 
Amortisation expense for the period
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 1,519 
 - 
 - 
 1,519 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 1,519
 -
 -
 1,519
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
307
Net carrying amount
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 148 
 3,57,100 
 1,20,517 
 4,77,765 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 139 
 3,57,100 
 1,20,517 
 4,77,756 
For capital commitments, refer note 35.
6 Intangible assets under development
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 2,804
 475
Additions
 660
 2,329
Assets Capitalised
 -
 -
Balance at the end of the year
 3,464
 2,804
Intangible Asset under Development (IAUD) Ageing Schedule
Particulars
 IAUD for a period of  
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
As at 31 March 2025
Project in progress
 660 
 2,329 
 - 
 475 
 3,464 
Project temporary suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
Project in progress
 2,329 
 - 
 - 
 475 
 2,804 
Project temporary suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Projects delayed as at 31 March 2025
 (₹ in lakhs)
Reason for delay
SAP HANA
3,464
The Company is upgrading its ERP system by implementing S4 
HANA (i.e. updated version of SAP). This project was kept on hold 
due to COVID 19 for two years, during the financial year 2022-
2023, the  Company have resumed this project and expects to get 
it completed by end of financial year 2025-26.
There are no Intangible Asset under Development (IAUD) that are overdue or have exceeded their original plan / budget.
Note: 7(a) - Non-current Investments
Particulars
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2025
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2024
A	
Investment in Debentures
Quoted
At amortised cost
8.40% Non cumulative debentures of Punjab 
national Bank (Units of ₹10,000,000 each)
 15
 1,526
 15 
 1,488
8.64% Non cumulative debentures of Union Bank 
Perpetual (Units of ₹10,000,000 each)
 50
 -
 50 
 4,990
10.25% Non cumulative debentures of Sammaan 
Finserve Limited (Units of ₹1,000,000 each)
 750
 7,754
 750 
 7,293
9.5% Non cumulative debentures of Incred 
Financial Services Ltd (Units of ₹100,000 each)
 5,000
 4,976
 - 
 -
(A)
 14,257
 13,770
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
308
B	
Investment in government securities
Unquoted
At amortised cost
Investments in National Savings Certificates  
(Deposited with Government Department as 
security)
-
-
(B)
-
-
Total Non-current Investment (A+B)
 14,257
 13,770
Aggregate amount of quoted investments at cost
 14,257
 13,770
Market Value of the quoted investments amortised at 
cost
 14,257
 13,770
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
-
-
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of 
investment
 -
 -
Note: 7(b) - Current Investments
Particulars
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2025
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2024
A	
Investment in Equity instruments
Quoted, fully paid-up
Mandatorily at FVTPL
Confidence Petroleum India Limited (Equity 
shares of ₹1 each)
 2,50,000
 117
 2,50,000
 210
(A)
 117.30
 210.00
B	
Investments in Mutual Funds
Unquoted
Mandatorily at FVTPL
Aditya Birla Sun Life Money Manager Fund (Units 
of ₹100 each)
 9,42,180
 3,464
 14,63,875
 4,989
Aditya Birla Sun Life Corporate Bond Fund - 
Growth - Direct Plan (Units of ₹10 each)
 3,19,313
 359
 -
 -
Aditya Birla Sun Life CRISIL -IBX Financial 
Services 3 to 6 months debt index fund - Direct 
Growth (Units of ₹100 each)
 59,10,949
 605
 -
 -
Aditya Birla Sun Low Duration Fund - Growth - 
Direct Plan (Units of ₹100 each)
 5,41,028
 3,850
 -
 -
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Growth - Direct 
Plan  (Units of ₹100 each)
 -
 -
 2,61,618
 1,019
Aditya Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund (Units of 
₹10 each)
 21,52,299
 1,082
 -
 -
Axis Arbitrage Fund - Direct Growth (Units of ₹10 
each)
 74,82,335
 1,492
 -
 -
Axis Money Market Fund Direct Growth (Units of 
₹1000 each)
 2,21,058
 3,130
 2,90,581
 3,812
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
309
Particulars
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2025
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2024
Axis Ultra Short Duration Fund - Direct Growth 
(Units of ₹10 each)
 11,76,562
 180
 -
 -
Bajaj Finserv Money Market Fund - Direct Plan - 
Growth  (Units of ₹1000 each)
 3,88,482
 4,421
 -
 -
Bandhan Arbitrage Fund - Direct - Growth (Units 
of ₹10 each)
 31,00,946
 1,070
 -
 -
Bandhan Bond Fund - Short Term Plan - Direct - 
Growth  (Units of ₹10 each)
 21,05,474
 1,258
 -
 -
Bandhan Liquid Fund Growth (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 -
 -
 98,891
 2,885
Bandhan Money Manager Fund Direct Plan-
Growth (Units of ₹10 each)
 24,18,806
 1,035
 50,43,121
 2,001
Bank of India Consumption Fund - Regular - 
Growth  (Units of ₹10 each)
 49,99,750
 477
 -
 -
Canara Robeco Multi Cap -Regular Growth Plan 
(Units of ₹10 each)
 49,99,750
 652
 49,99,750
 591
DSP Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth (Units of 
₹1000 each)
 94,530
 3,505
 84,684
 2,923
Edelweiss Liquid Fund - Direct Plan Growth (Units 
of ₹1000 each)
 -
 -
 1,93,706
 6,040
 Edelweiss Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
Option (Units of ₹1000 each)
 -
 -
 32,110
 1,001
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund - Growth Option - 
Direct Plan  (Units of ₹10 each)
 28,87,970
 940
 -
 -
HDFC Money Market Fund - Growth Option - 
Direct Plan  (Units of ₹1000 each)
 1,04,117
 5,952
 -
 -
HDFC Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 1,63,887
 100
 -
 -
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund (Units of 
₹10 each)
 42,06,156
 1,285
 42,06,156
 1,184
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Growth 
(Units of ₹10 each)
 -
 -
 28,64,714
 806
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund - Direct 
Growth (Units of ₹100 each)
 8,56,502
 3,226
 11,45,978
 4,002
ICICI Prudential Short Term Fund - Direct Plan 
-Growth  (Units of ₹10 each)
 9,06,221
 533
 -
 -
ICICI Prudential Savings Fund - Direct Plan - 
Growth  (Units of ₹100 each)
 15,639
 84
 -
 -
ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term Fund - Growth  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 -
 -
 73,65,083
 2,006
Invesco India Arbitrage Fund - Direct Plan - 
Growth Option  (Units of ₹10 each)
 39,86,455
 1,352
 -
 -
Invesco India Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - 
Growth  (Units of ₹1000 each)
 7,661
 255
 -
 -
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
310
Particulars
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2025
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2024
Invesco India Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth  
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 87,220
 3,105
 -
 -
Kotak Equity Arbitrage Fund (Units of ₹10 each)
 44,47,058
 1,750
 2,80,486
 102
Kotak Bond Fund - Short Term Plan - Direct - 
Growth  (Units of ₹10 each)
 18,73,745
 1,050
 -
 -
Kotak Liquid Fund -Direct Plan - Growth  (Units of 
₹1000 each)
 66,912
 3,506
 -
 -
Kotak Money Market Fund - (Growth) - Direct  
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 34,476
 1,533
 -
 -
LIC Liquid Fund -  Direct Growth (Units of ₹1000 
each)
 -
 -
 91,339
 4,005
Mirae Asset Arbitrage Fund Direct Growth  (Units 
of ₹10 each)
 29,66,893
 394
 -
 -
NIPPON INDIA ARBITRAGE FUND  (Units of ₹10 
each)
 56,87,825
 1,604
 -
 -
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund -Direct Plan 
Growth Plan  (Units of ₹10 each)
 16,79,138
 1,032
 -
 -
Nippon India Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan 
Growth Plan - Growth Option
 2,594
 101
 -
 -
Nippon India Money Market Fund -Direct - Growth 
Plan (Units of ₹1000 each)
 1,24,905
 5,148
 1,04,729
 4,002
Nippon India Ultra Short Duration Fund - Direct 
Growth Plan (Units of ₹1000 each)
 51,188
 2,229
 8,242
 332
SBI Equity Savings Fund - Regular Plan - Growth  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 8,73,052
 198
 -
 -
Tata Money Market Fund-Direct Plan - Growth 
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 93,426
 4,406
 91,634
 4,002
Tata Treasury Advantage Fund - Direct Plan - 
Growth Option  (Units of ₹1000 each)
 10,482
 415
 -
 -
Tata Ultra Short Term Fund-Direct Plan-Growth  
(Units of ₹10 each)
 20,89,876
 305
 -
 -
UTI Money Market Fund - Direct Plan-Growth  
(Units of ₹1000 each)
 1,32,097
 4,043
 -
 -
Union Liquid Fund -Direct-Growth (Units of 
₹1000 each)
 -
 -
 -
 990
UBS (LUX) Money Market Plan (Units of ₹xx each)
 -
 1,032
 82
 949
(B)
 72,163
 47,643
C	
Investment in Debentures
Quoted
At amortised cost
8.70% GIC Housing Finance (Units of ₹100,000 
each)
 -
 -
 6,500
 6,511
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
311
Particulars
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2025
No. of units
(in absolute 
numbers)
As at
31 March 2024
0.00% Piramal Enterprises Limited (Units of 
₹1,000,000 each)
 -
 -
 250
 2,880
8.64% Union Bank Perpetual (Units of 
₹10,000,000 each)
 50
 4,990
 -
 -
10.2% Navi Finserv Pvt Ltd (Units of ₹100,000 
each)
 2,500
 2,629
 -
 -
0.00% Marked linked debentures of L & T Finance 
Limited (Units of ₹1,000,000 each)
 -
 -
 250
 2,813
0.00% Marked linked debentures of Shriram 
Transport Finance Company Limited (Units of 
₹1,000,000 each)
 -
 -
 250
 2,826
(C)
 7,619
 15,030
D	
Investments in Commercial Papers
Unquoted
At amortised cost
9% NAVI Finserv Ltd. (Units of ₹500000 each)
 -
 -
 500
 2,498
8.80% Yes Bank Limited (Units of ₹500000 each)
 -
 -
 700
 3,479
8.75% Nuvama Wealth Management Limited 
(Units of ₹500000 each)
 -
 -
 500
 2,491
8.75% IIFL Securities Limited (Units of ₹500000 
each)
 -
 -
 500
 2,486
9% Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited (Units of 
₹500000 each)
 -
 -
 500
 2,396
9.60% Indostar Capital Finance Ltd ((Units of ₹ 
500000 each)
 500
 2,428
 -
 -
(D)
 2,428
 13,350
Total Current Investment (A+B+C+D)
 82,327
 76,233
Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market 
value thereof
 7,736
 15,240
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 74,591
 60,993
Refer note 41 for information about credit risk and market risk
Note: 8 Other financial assets (Non current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
(Unsecured, considered good)
Security deposits
 10,718
 7,893
Less: Loss allowance for doubtful security deposits
 (1,064)
 (1,064)
Investment in term deposit (refer note (a) below)
 1,308
 12
Margin money deposits with bank (refer note (b) below)
 1,188
 77
Advance recoverable in cash
 25
 25
Total
 12,175
 6,943
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
312
(a) 	
Lien against bank overdraft facility amounting to ₹ 10 lakhs  (31 March 2024: ₹12 lakhs)
(b) 	
Lien against bank guarantees amounting to ₹ 1,188 lakhs ( 31 March 2024: ₹77 lakhs)
Refer note 34 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Note: 9 Other Non-current assets
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Capital advances
 1,136 
 1,079 
Prepaid expenses
 - 
 45 
Deposits with government authorities
 3,066 
 2,815 
Deposits with customs, port trust, excise and other receivables from government 
authorities
 2,694 
 2,380 
Deposits paid under protest
 1,043 
 1,043 
CVD Receivable (refer note below)
 (1,043)
 (1,043)
Less: Provision for CVD Receivable *
 6,897 
 6,319 
Total
 6,897
 6,319
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a director or a member
Note:
“Imported garments were fully exempted from payment of CVD under Notification No. 30/2004- C.E. dated 09th July 2004, subject 
to the condition that no CENVAT Credit has been availed on the inputs or on capital goods. However, during the relevant period 
(Financial year ended 31 March 2011 to 31 March 2014), there was a dispute between the importers and the Customs Department 
regarding the applicability of the said benefit and the fulfilment of the aforesaid condition. The Customs Department had taken a 
view that the condition of “where NO CENVAT credit has been availed on the inputs by suppliers” was not applicable on the imported 
goods and accordingly, the importers were not eligible for the benefit of the said Notification. Basis the above notification, Raymond 
Apparel Limited (business undertaking of Raymond apparel limited merged with Raymond Limited w.e.f 23 March 2022) had paid CVD 
under protest amounting to ₹ 2,257 Lakhs during the period from 2011 to 2015.
However, Raymond Apparel Limited (business undertaking of Raymond apparel limited merged with Raymond Limited w.e.f 23rd 
March 2022) had filed refund applications of CVD paid under protest, amounting to ₹ 2,257 Lakhs, basis the order passed by the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the case of M/s. SRF Ltd. vs Commissioner of Customs, Chennai reported at 2015 (318) E.L.T. 
607 (SC), which interpreted Condition No. 20 of Notification No. 06/2002-CE (Sl. No. 122). The Hon’ble Supreme Court held that 
importers of goods could claim benefit of such notification at the time of import for exemption from payment of CVD.
During FY 2023-24, out of total claim of ₹ 2,257.44 Lakhs, the Company has received the amount of ₹ 1,215 Lakhs and the same has 
been grouped under ‘Other income’.
Customs Department has preferred appeal against the aforesaid refund of ₹ 1,215 Lakhs. Commissioner (Appeal) and CESTAT have 
ordered in favor of the refund. However, Department has now filed Appeal in High Court against CESTAT order”.
During FY 2023-24, the company re-evaluated its claim recoverables and filed an application for an additional CVD refund of ₹713 
lakhs, which is currently under process.”
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
313
Note: 10 Inventories
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
(a)	 Raw materials (including in-transit of ₹ 4,558 lakhs, 31 March 2024:
₹ 5,777 lakhs)
 25,018
 27,034
(b)	 Work-in-progress
 24,409
 20,186
(c)	 Finished goods
 42,315
 44,504
(d)	 Stock-in-trade (including in-transit of ₹ Nil, 31 March 2024: ₹ 460 lakhs)
 79,661
 76,625
(e)	 Stores and spares (including in-transit of ₹ 44, 31 March 2024: ₹ 285 lakhs)
 4,198
 4,444
(f)	 Packing material
 -
 97
(g)	  Accumulated cost on conversion contracts
 74
 389
Total
 1,75,675
 1,73,281
Write down of inventories to net realisable value *
16,569
14,488
Reversal of write down of inventories
-
-
* Inventory write downs are accounted, considering the nature of inventory, ageing and net realisable value. These writedowns were 
recognised as expense and included in changes in value of inventories of ‘finished goods’, ‘work-in-progress’, ‘stock-in-trade’ and 
‘cost of material consumed’ and ‘consumption of stores and spare parts’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Note: 11 Trade receivables
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Unsecured
 - 
 - 
Considered good
91,717
92,484
Significant increase in credit risk
-
-
Credit impaired
 10,286 
 8,070 
Less: Loss allowance
 (10,286)
 (8,070)
Total
 91,717 
 92,484 
Break-up of security details
 - secured
                   12,452 
                     9,220 
 - unsecured
                   79,265 
                   83,264 
Doubtful
                   10,286 
                     8,070 
                1,02,003 
                1,00,554 
Less: Loss allowance
                  (10,286)
                    (8,070)
Total
                   91,717 
                   92,484 
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company (Gross)
                          - 
                          - 
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a director or 
a member (Gross)
                          - 
                          - 
Includes due from related parties (Gross) (refer note 43)
                   11,288 
                   20,583 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
314
Trade receivables include ₹2681 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹2450 lakhs) for which credit risk is retained by the Company under a 
factoring arrangement and are net of ₹24,129 lakhs  (31 March 2024 ₹22049 lakhs) de-recognised (along with corresponding 
liability) on transfer ‘without recourse’ under a factoring arrangement. Company retains interest liability upto an agreed date on 
the entire amount, the costs for which are recognised as part of finance costs.
The trade receivables includes ₹130 lakhs (31 March 2024 ₹1138 lakhs) receivables against which bills are discounted. Under 
this arrangement Company has transferred the relevant receivables to the banks in exchange for cash. However, Company has 
retained late payment and credit risk. The Company therefore continues to recognize the transferred assets in entirety in its 
balance sheet. The amount repayable under the bills discounted is presented as current borrowings.
Trade receivables are generally on terms of 60 to 90 days.
Ageing for gross trade receivables outstanding as at 31 March 2025 is as follows :
Particulars
 Less than 6 
Months
 6 Months - 
1 Year
 1-2 Year
 2-3 years
 More than 3 
years
 Total
(i)	
Undisputed -considered good
 75,018 
 5,319 
 4,573 
 2,515 
 5,399 
 92,824 
(ii)	 Undisputed -which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	 Undisputed -credit impaired
812
200
1,442
375
5,789
 8,619 
(iv)	 Disputed - considered good
 - 
 0 
 0 
 5 
 137 
 143 
(v)	 Disputed -which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	 Disputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 417 
 417 
 75,709 
 5,452 
 5,855 
 4,607 
 10,379 
 1,02,003 
Less: Loss allowance
 (10,286)
Trade receivables (net)
 91,717 
Ageing for gross trade receivables outstanding as at 31 March 2024 is as follows :
Particulars
 Less than 6 
Months
 6 Months - 
1 Year
 1-2 Year
 2-3 years
 More than 3 
years
 Total
(i)	
Undisputed -considered good
 88,868 
 2,860 
 386 
 226 
 144 
 92,484 
(ii)	 Undisputed -which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	 Undisputed -credit impaired
 158 
 65 
 1,741 
 2,592 
 2,679 
 7,235 
(iv)	 Disputed - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	 Disputed -which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	 Disputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 2 
 67 
 766 
 835 
 89,026 
 2,924 
 2,130 
 2,885 
 3,589 
 1,00,554 
Less: Loss allowance
 (8,070)
Trade receivables (net)
 92,484 
There are no unbilled receivables as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024
Note: 12 Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Cash on hand
 123
 94
Balances with Banks
-	
In current accounts
 26,331
 7,010
-	
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months
 2
 1,091
Total
 26,456
 8,195
There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and prior period.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
315
Refer note 40 for information about credit risk and market risk
There are no cash and cash equivalents which will not be available for use by the Company.
Refer note 34 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Note: 13 Bank Balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Margin money deposits with original maturity of more than three months and less 
than twelve months *
 2,474
 5,943
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months and less than twelve 
months
 11,157
 1,867
Total
 13,631
 7,811
*Held as lien by bank against bank guarantees amounting to Rs. 1568.13 lakhs (Rs. 501.81 lakhs as at 31 March 2024)
** Held as debt service reserve account against term loan from Bank of Maharashtra and non convertible debentures
There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting 
period and prior period.
Refer note 40 for information about credit risk and market risk
Refer note 34 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company. 
Note: 14 Other financial assets (current) 
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise specified)
Security Deposits
 2,911 
 2,764 
Less: Loss allowance
 (304)
 (304)
Interest receivable
 41 
 - 
Advances and other receivable from related parties (refer note 38)
 923 
 594 
Export benefits receivables - duty drawback
 843 
 910 
Mark to market of derivative financial instruments
 6 
 33 
Other receivables 
 22 
 64 
Total
 4,441 
 4,061 
Refer note 34 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
Note: 15 Other Current assets 
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Export benefit receivables
 347 
 375 
Prepaid expenses 
 1,050 
 1,215 
Advances recoverable in kind or value to be received
 492 
 2,851 
Balances with statutory/ government authorities
 31,976 
 22,204 
Gratuity plan assets (refer note 37)
 811 
 - 
Interest subsidy receivables 
 - 
 914 
Claims and other receivables (net)
 99 
 75 
Advance other than capital advances
Advances to suppliers
 4,569 
 4,226 
Considered doubtful
 38 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
316
Less: Loss allowance for doubtful advances
 (38)
 - 
 4,569 
 4,226 
Other advances *
 10,132 
 5,073 
Total
 49,477 
 36,933 
* Majorly includes travel advance, quick silver redemption and shop imprest
Dues from directors or other officers of the Company
-
-
Dues from firms or private companies in which director is a partner or a director or a 
member
-
-
Refer note 34 for information on assets provided as collateral or security for borrowings or financing facilities availed by the Company.
16 Equity share capital
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Authorised
67150000 [31 March 2024: 15150000*]  Equity Shares of ₹2 each 
 1,343 
 303 
Total
 1,343 
 303 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
60923629 [ 31 March 2024: 7673628** ] Equity Shares of Rs 2 each
 1,218 
 153 
 1,218
 153
* During the previous year, the authorised share capital of the Holding Company which comprised of 3,030,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 
each was divided into 15,150,000 shares of ₹ 2 each on 26 April 2023 post split in 1:5 ratio.
**Reported as at 31 March 2024 -14900000 Equity Shares, pursuant to merger of lifestyle business cancellation of old equity shares 
(refer note 50 and note 17A(a) below)
a) Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Number of
shares
Amount
Number of 
shares
Amount
Equity Shares :
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 76,73,628 
 153 
 29,80,000 
 298 
Add: Shares on account of stock split *
 - 
 - 
 1,19,20,000 
 - 
Less: Cancellation of Old Equity Shares  (refer note 53)
 - 
 - 
 (1,49,00,000)
 (298)
Add: Issue of New Equity Shares pursuant to scheme of 
arrangement (refer note 53)
 5,32,50,000 
 1,065 
 76,73,628 
 153 
Balance as at the end of the year
 6,09,23,628 
 1,218 
 76,73,628 
 153 
* During the previous year, the authorised share capital of the Holding Company which comprised of 3,030,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 
each was divided into 15,150,000 shares of ₹ 2 each on 26 April 2023 post split in 1:5 ratio.
b) 	
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
	
Equity shares: The Holding Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹2 per share. Each shareholder is 
eligible for one vote per share held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders 
in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders 
are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Holding Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion 
to their shareholding.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
317
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
c)	
Details of equity shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
%
No. of shares
%
No. of shares
(Before Scheme of Arrangement)
Ray Global Consumer Trading Ltd and its nominees 
(Amalgamated))(refer note 1 below)
 - 
 - 
100.00
14900000
(Ater Scheme of Arrangement)
J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
 - 
 - 
100.00
14900000
JK Investo Trade (India) Limited
38.02
23165400
 - 
 - 
J.K. Helene Curtis Limited
10.87
6620069
 - 
 - 
Note 1: 
The Board of the Company at its meeting held on 27th April, 2023 approved the Composite Scheme of Arrangement between Raymond 
Limited and Raymond Lifestyle Limited (“RLL”) (formerly known as Raymond Consumer Care Limited) and Ray Global Consumer 
Trading Limited and their respective shareholders (“Scheme”). The Scheme inter-alia provides for: Demerger of the lifestyle business 
from Raymond Limited (“RL”) and the lifestyle business carried out through subsidiaries of RL along with its strategic investment in 
Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited (“RGCTL”) into RLL and issuance of equity shares of RLL to all the shareholders of RL through 
Composite Scheme of Arrangement (“Demerger”); andAmalgamation of RGCTL with RLL along with the consequential reduction and 
cancellation of the paid-up share capital of RLL held by Ray Global Consumer Trading Limited.
The Scheme is approved by Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal and with submission of the same with statutory authorities is 
effective from 30th June, 2024.
d)	
Shares held by Promoter’s Group at the end of the year
	
As at 31 March 2025
Name of promoter group
 No. of shares at 
the beginning of 
the year
 Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of Total 
shares
 % changes 
during the 
year
(Promoters before Scheme of 
Arrangement)
Ray Global Consumer Trading Ltd and it's 
nominees (Amalgamated) (refer note 1 above)
 1,49,00,000  (1,49,00,000)
 - 
0.00%
-100%
(Promoters after Scheme of Arrangement)
Vijaypat Singhania
 - 
 7,200 
 7,200 
0.01%
0.01%
Niharika Gautam Singhania
 - 
 4,000 
 4,000 
0.01%
0.01%
Nawaz Singhania
 - 
 2,040 
 2,040 
0.00%
0.00%
Nisa Gautam Singhania
 - 
 400 
 400 
0.00%
0.00%
Gautam Hari Singhania
 - 
 23 
 23 
0.00%
0.00%
J K Investors (Bombay) Limited
 - 
 2,31,65,400 
 2,31,65,400 
38.02%
38.02%
J K Helene Curtis Limited
 - 
 28,73,640 
 28,73,640 
4.72%
4.72%
J K Investo Trade (India) Limited
 - 
 66,20,069 
 66,20,069 
10.87%
10.87%
J K Sports Foundation
 - 
 5,116 
 5,116 
0.01%
0.01%
Smt Sunitidevi Singhania Hospital Trust
 - 
 5,53,196 
 5,53,196 
0.91%
0.91%
Polar Investments Limited
 - 
 79,360 
 79,360 
0.13%
0.13%
 Total 
 1,49,00,000 
 1,84,10,444 
 3,33,10,444 
54.68%
As at 31 March 2024
Name of promoter group
 No. of shares at 
the beginning of 
the year
 Change 
during the 
year
 No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 % of Total 
shares
 % changes 
during the 
year
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
318
Ray Global Consumer Trading Ltd and it’s 
nominees (refer note 1 above)
 29,80,000 
 - 
 1,49,00,000 
100.00%
 -
 Total
 29,80,000 
 - 
 1,49,00,000 
100.00%
 -
Note: The issued, subscribed share capital of the Company which comprised of 29,80,000 equity shares of ₹10 each was divided into 
1,49,00,000 equity shares of ₹2 each on 26th April, 2023.
17	
Equity share reserved for issue under options
	
Information relating to Employee Stock options issued, excercised and lapsed during the financial year and options outstanding 
at the end of the reporting period, is set out in note 45.
18 (a) - Non Current Borrowings
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Secured
Debentures
 20,000 
 20,000 
Term loans from Non banking financial institution
 17,260 
 988 
 37,260 
 20,988 
Above total is net of instalments falling due within a year in respect of all the above Loans aggregating ₹ 2,211.50 lakhs (31 March 
2024 : ₹ 10,183.84 lakhs) that have been grouped under “Current Borrowings” (refer note 18(b))
Nature of Security and terms of repayment for Long Term secured borrowings:
Nature of Security
Terms of Repayment
Term loan from bank, balance outstanding amounting to ₹ 10000 
lakhs (31 March 2024: Nil)  is secured by first pari pasu charge on 
entire fixed assets of company, both present and future situated at 
Taluka Pardi, District Valsad Plant alongwith existing term lenders 
Repayable in 20 equal quarterly installments starting from 
June 2025 and last installment due in March 2030. Rate of 
interest  9.15%  p.a. as at year end.(31st March,2024 : Nil.) 
Privately Placed Non-Convertible Debentures (face value ₹10 
lakhs each)
Balance outstanding amounting to ₹ 20,000 lakhs (31 March 2024 : 
₹20,000 lakhs) is secured by first pari passu charge on all the pieces 
and parcels of land situated at Taluka Pardi, District Valsad and 
within the Registration District and Sub district of Valsad along with 
the factory building admeasuring 96307 square meters constructed 
thereon together with all buildings,machinery,erections, furniture 
and fixtures,godowns and constructions of every description which 
are standing erected or attached to aforesaid land, both present and 
future.
Additional Fixed Deposit amounting to ₹ 20,000 lakhs is lien marked 
against non convertible debentures of ₹ 20,000 lakhs till 21st January 
2025 post which it was released (31st March,2024 : ₹ 20,000 lakhs)
Repayable in four equal annual installments starting from 
February 2028 and last installment due in February 2031. 
Rate of interest 9.00% p.a. (31 March 2024 9.00% p.a.)
Balance outstanding amounting to Nil (31 March 2024 :₹ 10,000 
lakhs) was secured by first pari passu charge on all the pieces and 
parcels of land situated at Taluka Pardi, District Valsad and within 
the Registration District and Sub district of Valsad along with the 
factory building admeasuring 96307 square meters constructed 
thereon together with all buildings, machinery, erections, furniture 
and fixtures, godowns and constructions of every description which 
are standing erected or attached to aforesaid land, both present and 
future
Repaid in December 2024. Rate of interest 7.60% p.a. as at 
date of repayment. (31 March 2024 : 7.60% p.a.)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
319
Nature of Security and terms of repayment for Long Term 
secured borrowings of subsidiaries:
Loan Amounting to ₹ 9,519.88 lakhs (31 March 2024 : ₹ 1,199.36 
lakhs) in subsidiaries secured by hypothecation charge over assets 
of the respective subsidiary company.
Repayable in specified dates / installment (monthly, quarterly, 
half yearly). Interest rate from 4.20% p.a. to 10.95% p.a.*
Amount of ₹ 48.01 lakhs (31 March 2024: ₹ 27.66 lakhs) related to deferred expense towards processing charges is netted of against 
loans and Debentures.
The carrying amounts of financial and non financial assets as security for secured borrowings are disclosed in note 34.
18 (b) - Current Borrowings
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Secured
Working Capital Loans
(a)	 Loans repayable on demand from banks
 84,105 
 45,428 
(b)	 Local Bills discounted with bank
 130 
 1,138 
(d)	 Current maturities of long-term debt (refer note 18(a))
 2,212 
 10,184 
Secured - Total (A)
 86,447 
 56,750 
Unsecured
(a)	 Working capital loan from banks
 2,681 
 2,450 
(b)	 Acceptance
 - 
 1,608 
(c)	 Interest Accrued but not due on borrowing
 569 
 745 
Unsecured - Total (B)
 3,250
 4,803
Total (A+B)
 89,697
 61,553
refer note 34 for assets pledged as security against borrowings and note 40 for financial risk management.
Security
(a) 	
Loans repayable on demand from banks
	
(includes short term loan)
	
Secured as per the consortium agreement by hypothecation of inventories, receivables , book debts and other current assets 
of the company excluding liquid investments, both present and future.
(b) 	
Local Bills discounted with bank
	
Bill Discounting facility is secured against book debts, receivables, Claims and bills discounted under this facility.
Note 19 - Other financial liability (non-current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Government Grant (refer note 44)*
 1,782 
 2,268 
 1,782 
 2,268 
*  Export Promotion Capital Goods (‘EPCG’) scheme allows import of certain capital goods including spares at concessional duty 
subject to an export obligation for the duty saved on capital goods imported under EPCG scheme. The duty saved on capital goods 
imported under EPCG scheme being government grant, is accounted as stated in the material accounting policy on government 
grant. The balance above represents unamortised amount of duty saved. Export obligation to be fulfilled subsequent to the reporting 
date, within the period allowed under the scheme is disclosed in note 44.
20 Trade payables
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 11,239 
 15,396 
Total outstanding dues other than micro and small enterprises
 1,21,128 
 1,10,531 
 1,32,367 
 1,25,928 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
320
Includes due to related parties [refer note 38]
Notes:
Trade payables are generally non-interest bearing and are normally settled within 30 to 90 days.
Refer note 40 for information about liquidity risk and market risk.
Ageing of Trade payables as at 31 March 2025 (Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment)
Particulars
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than
3 years
 Total
Micro enterprises and small enterprises ('MSME')
 10,861 
 308 
 22 
 49 
 11,239 
Other than MSME
 1,12,984 
 6,374 
 465 
 1,261 
 1,21,085 
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues - Other than MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43 
 43 
 1,23,845 
 6,682 
 488 
 1,353 
 1,32,367 
Ageing of Trade payables as at 31 March 2024 (Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment)
(` in lakhs)
Particulars
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than
3 years
 Total
Micro enterprises and small enterprises ('MSME')
 15,282 
 31 
 10 
 73 
 15,396 
Other than MSME
 1,06,501 
 2,217 
 684 
 1,129 
 1,10,531 
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues - Other than MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,21,783 
 2,248 
 694 
 1,203 
 1,25,928 
21 Other financial liabilities (current)
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts (derivative)
 76 
 62 
Others
Employee related payables
 12,963 
 14,466 
Deposits from dealers and agents
 24,619 
 22,635 
Unclaimed fractional shares
 103 
 - 
Bank overdraft repayable on demand
 110 
 66 
Employee benefits payable 
 - 
 719 
Capital creditors
 888 
 520 
Payable to related parties (refer note 38)
 - 
 22 
Other payables *
 184 
 227 
Total
 38,943 
 38,716 
refer note 40 for financial risk management
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
321
Note: 22 Other current liabilities
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Advances
 
 
Advance from customers
 4,758 
 4,133 
Others
Customer loyalty programme
 932 
 1,208 
Statutory dues
 5,295 
 3,279 
Government grant (refer note 44)
 565 
 566 
Stamp duty and transfer fees payable
 - 
 262 
Other payables
 626 
 505 
Total
 12,175 
 9,954 
* refer note 44
  refer note 40 for financial risk management
Note: 23 Provisions (Current) 	
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Provision for employee benefits (refer note 37)
-Compensated absences
 4,890 
 4,454 
-Gratuity
 2,615 
 2,304 
Provision for litigation/dispute (refer note below)
 585 
 585 
 8,090 
 7,342 
Movement in provisions for litigation / dispute (refer note below)	
(₹ in lakhs)
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Opening Balance
 585 
 585 
Provision recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
Amount utilised / reclassified during the year
 - 
 - 
Amount reversed during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance
 585 
 585 
Note - Provision for litigation / dispute represents disputed liability of the Holding Company towards excise duty post removal of goods 
from place of manufacture that are expected to materialise.
24 Revenue from operations
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of Products
(i)	
Manufactured goods
 3,19,448 
 3,54,141 
(ii)	 Stock-in trade
 2,88,217 
 2,89,723 
Total (A)
 6,07,665 
 6,43,864 
Sale of Services
(i)	
Income from tailoring service
 2,956 
 2,672 
(ii)	 Job work
 1,190 
 2,037 
(iv)	 Others
 835 
 745 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
322
Total (B)
 4,981 
 5,454 
Revenue from Contract with Customers [(A) + (B)]
 6,12,647 
 6,49,318 
Other operating revenue
(i)	
Export incentives, etc.
 2,841
 2,601
(ii)	 Process waste sale
 1,406
 1,563
(iii)	 Other operating Income
 780
 59
Other operating revenue
 5,027
 4,223
Total
 6,17,674 
 6,53,541 
Performance obligation
The performance obligation of Company is satisfied at a point in time.
Revenue recognition
Revenue recognition for sale of services is recognised at a point in time and revenue is recognised upon satisfaction of the performance 
obligation.
The tables below present disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers by customer location. Company believes this 
disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are affected by industry, 
market and other economic factors.
(a) Disaggregation of revenue by geographical region
 - India
 4,82,474
 5,29,248
 - Outside India
 1,35,199
 1,24,293
 6,17,674
 6,53,541
(b) Timing of revenue recognition
Revenue recognition at a point in time
 6,17,674
 6,53,541
Revenue recognition over period of time
 -
 -
 6,17,674
 6,53,541
(c) Reconciliation between the contract price and revenue from contracts with customers
Contract price
 6,33,306
 6,75,660
Less:
Sales returns and others
 201
 3,354
Customer loyalty programme
 1,278
 1,369
Bonus, incentives, discount and others
 14,153
 17,397
 6,17,674
 6,53,541
(d) Outstanding balance of trade receivables
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Trade receivables (net)
 91,717
 92,484
(e) Changes in contract liabilities (Customer loyalty programme) (refer note 23)
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,208
 -
Net revenue recognised that was included in the balance at the 
beginning of the year
 (1,208)
 -
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
323
Net invoicing during the year, excluding amounts recognised as 
revenue during the year
 932
 1,208
Transferred to liablities included in disposal group held for distribution
 -
 -
 932
 1,208
(f) The Company does not have any significant obligations for returns and refunds.
(g) Contracts do not have a significant financing component.
25 Other income
Particulars
 Year ended 
31 March 2025 
 Year ended 
31 March 2024 
Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost
 6,068 
 9,070 
Dividend income
 0 
 0 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 - 
 304 
Net gain on foreign exchange fluctuations
 756 
 421 
Gain on extinguishment of lease liabilities (refer note 47)
 283 
 247 
Net gain on sale/fair valuation of investments through profit and loss *
 2,321 
 1,064 
Apportioned income from Government Grant#
 600 
 571 
Provision no longer required/ excess provision written back
 751 
 584 
Other non-operating income^
 7,545 
 3,180 
Total
 18,324 
 15,439 
* Adjusted for fair value gain amounting to ₹1487.26 lakhs for year ended 31 March 2025 (31 March 2024 ₹ 431.35 lakhs)
# Government grants are related to investments made by the company in property, plant and equipment for plant setup at Kolhapur 
and Amravati, Maharashtra. The company did not benefit directly from any other forms of government assistance. There are no 
unfulfilment condition attached to the government grant (refer note 44).
^ Includes income from sale of scrap, refund of custom duty and others.
26 Cost of materials consumed
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Raw materials consumed
Opening stock
 21,258 
 20,235 
Purchases
 1,21,210 
 1,27,837 
Less : Sales (disposals)
 (42)
 (52)
Less : Closing stock
 (20,460)
 (21,258)
Total
 1,21,965 
 1,26,764 
Note: 26 Purchases of stock-in-trade
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 1,60,741 
 1,72,112 
 1,60,741 
 1,72,112 
Note: 27 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in progress and stock-in-trade
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Opening inventories
Finished goods
 44,504 
 43,133 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
324
Work-in-progress
 20,186 
 22,231 
Stock-in-trade
 76,166 
 69,134 
Accumulated cost on conversion contracts
 389 
 464 
Total opening inventories
 1,41,245 
 1,34,963 
Closing inventories
Finished goods
 42,315 
 44,504 
Work-in-progress
 24,409 
 20,186 
Stock-in-trade
 79,661 
 76,166 
Accumulated cost on conversion contracts
 74 
 389 
Total closing inventories
 1,46,459 
 1,41,245 
Total
 (5,214)
 (6,282)
Note: 28 Employee benefits expense
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Salaries, wages, bonus etc.
 84,460 
 81,654 
Contribution to provident and other funds (refer note 37)
 5,008 
 4,581 
Staff welfare expenses
 5,085 
 4,903 
Employees Stock Option Plan Cost (refer note 45)
 (36)
 678 
Total
 94,517 
 91,816 
Note: 29 Finance costs
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Interest expense
-	
on debentures and term loans
 4,171 
 4,244 
-	
on lease obligations (refer note 47)
 7,478 
 4,911 
-	
on others
 8,648 
 10,112 
Other borrowing costs
 437 
 301 
Total
 20,735 
 19,569 
Note: 30 Depreciation and amortization expense
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Depreciation of PPE (refer note 2)
 16,507 
 13,525 
Depreciation on ROU assets (refer note 2)
 15,536 
 11,082 
Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 5)
 92 
 24 
Total
 32,135 
 24,630 
Note: 31 Manufacturing and operating expenses
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Consumption of stores and spare parts
 24,510 
 24,824 
Power and fuel
 18,205 
 18,584 
Job work charges
 14,385 
 15,667 
Repairs to buildings
 1,623 
 1,033 
Repairs to machinery
 2,303 
 2,261 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
325
Other manufacturing and operating expenses
 12,886 
 6,647 
Total
 73,911 
 69,017 
32 Other expenses	
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Rent
 2,388 
 1,450 
Insurance
 932 
 394 
Repairs and maintenance
 8,083 
 3,974 
Rates and taxes
 658 
 472 
Advertisement expenses
 19,582 
 19,540 
Commission to selling agents
 12,854 
 16,394 
Freight and octroi charges
 6,343 
 6,045 
Legal and professional fees
 8,166 
 7,422 
Auditor's remuneration (refer note below)
 161 
 18 
Travelling expenses
 9,368 
 8,984 
Sales promotion expenses
 10,570 
 6,841 
Bad debts, advances, claims and deposits written off
 389 
 477 
Provision for expected credit loss 
 2,216 
 1,014 
Less: Provision write back 
 - 
 (389)
Loss on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 196 
 - 
Outsourced support service
 12,843 
 9,528 
Information technology support services
 1,953 
 1,685 
Electricity charges
 2,469 
 1,890 
Security charges
 1,550 
 997 
Material handling expenses
 2,891 
 3,433 
Corporate social responsibility expenditure
 284 
 60 
Donation
 1,710 
 - 
Miscellaneous expenses#
19,374
16,229
Total
 1,24,979 
 1,06,457 
# Includes bank charges, communication charges, printing stationery, software charges and warehouse charges
Auditor’s remuneration (excluding goods and services tax)
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
As auditors:
Audit fee and limited review fees (including consolidation)
 130
 -
In other capacity:
Other services
 26
 18
Reimbursement of expenses
 6
 -
 161
 18
33  Income Taxes
 A) 	  Tax expense / (credit) recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
326
 Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
 Continued operations :
 Current tax
 Expense for the year
 2,912 
 15,080
 Adjustments for prior periods
 628 
 -
 Total current tax
 3,540 
 15,080
 Deferred tax
 Origination and reversal of temporary difference
 (1,358)
 948
 Total deferred income tax expense/(credit)
 (1,358)
 948
 Total Tax Expenses / (Credit) (net) (A)
 2,182
 16,027
 Discontinued operations :
 Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 Current tax
 -
 36,822
 Deferred tax
 -
 13,875
Total Tax Expense - Discontinued operations (B)
 -
 50,697
Total Tax Expense (A + B)
 2,182
 66,724
B) 	
 A reconciliation between the statutory income tax rate applicable to the Group and the effective income tax rate is as 
follows:
 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
 Profit before tax
 6,001
 3,31,210
 Enacted income tax rate in India
25.17%
25.17%
 Tax amount at the enacted income tax rate
 1,510
 83,359
 Add / (deduct) impact of -
 Exceptional Items - Capital Gains
 (8)
 (16,715)
 Difference in tax rates for certain entities of the Group
 (555)
 127
 Expenses not allowable for tax purposes
 152
 231
 Income exempt from Income taxes
 (91)
 (17)
 Adjustments for prior periods
 628
 -
 Others
 545
 (260)
 Total Tax Expenses / (Credit) (net)
 2,182
 66,724
Note:
The effective tax rate which is 25.89% (31 March 2024, 20.15%)
C) 	  The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year ended 31 March 2025:
 Movement during the year ended 31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
 Credit/(charge) 
in Consolidated 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss
 Credit/(charge) 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
 As at
31 March 2025
 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 Provision for post retirement benefits
 1,477 
 190 
 - 
 1,667 
 Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 2,503 
 558 
 - 
 3,061 
 Depreciation
 (5,033)
 7 
 (16)
 (5,041)
 VRS paid
 292 
 (8)
 - 
 285 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
327
 Unabsorbed Losses & Depreciation
 83 
 26,037 
 (374)
 25,746 
 DTA on Unrealised profits on inter companies stock
 347 
 (21)
 - 
 327 
 Adjustment on account of Ind AS 116 transition
 1,490 
 746 
 - 
 2,236 
 DTA on PPA - Intangibles
 1,07,895 
 (27,686)
 - 
 80,210 
 Fair value gains/losses and Others
 2,332 
 1,533 
 64 
 3,929 
 Total (A)
 1,11,386 
 1,358 
 (325)
 1,12,419 
 Mat Credit Entitlements
 1,919 
 (1,660)
 - 
 259 
 Total (B)
 1,919 
 (1,660)
 - 
 259 
 Total (A + B)
 1,13,305 
 (302)
 (325)
 1,12,679 
 Movement during the year ended 31 March 2024
 As at
01 April 2023
 Credit/(charge) 
in Consolidated 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss
 Credit/(charge) 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
 As at
31 March 2024
 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 Provision for post retirement benefits
 1,130
 285
 62
 1,477
 Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 2,769
 (266)
 -
 2,503
 Provision for Replacement
 894
 (894)
 -
 -
 Depreciation
 (4,854)
 (179)
 -
 (5,033)
 VRS paid
 160
 132
 -
 292
 Unabsorbed Losses & Depreciation
 1,439
 (1,357)
 -
 83
 DTA on Unrealised profits on inter companies stock
 461
 (114)
 -
 347
 Adjustment on account of Ind AS 116 transition
 1,222
 268
 -
 1,490
 Capital Loss on sale of investments
 14,087
 (14,087)
 -
 -
 DTA on PPA - Intangibles
 1,06,969
 926
 -
 1,07,895
 Fair value gains/losses and Others
 2,046
 285
 -
 2,332
 Total (A)
 1,26,324
 (15,000)
 62
 1,11,386
 Mat Credit Entitlements
 1,742
 177
 -
 1,919
 Total (B)
 1,742
 177
 -
 1,919
 Total (A + B)
 1,28,066
 (14,823)
 62
 1,13,305
 Details of Deferred Tax Assets*
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
 (a)	 Deferred Tax Liability on account of:
	
Depreciation
 282
 -
 282
 -
(b)	 Deferred Tax Asset on account of :
 	
Provision for post retirement benefits
 492 
 501
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
328
 	
Provision for doubtful debts and advances and Incentives
 2,722 
 2,447
 	
VRS paid
 285 
 292
	
Depreciation
 - 
 63
 	
Unabsorbed Losses & Depreciation
 25,746 
 83
 	
DTA on Unrealised profits on inter companies stock
 327 
 347
 	
DTA on Ind AS 116 transition
 2,305 
 1,556
 	
DTA on PPA - Intangibles
 80,207 
 1,07,895
 	
Fair value gains/losses and Others
 2,703 
 1,219
 1,14,785 
 1,14,405
 1,14,504 
 1,14,405
*Represents aggregate for entities having net deferred tax assets
 Details of Deferred Tax Liability*
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
(a)	 Deferred Tax Liability on account of:
	
Unabsorbed Losses & Depreciation
 4,759
 5,096
          Lease
 69
 67
 4,828
 5,163
 (b)	 Deferred Tax Asset on account of :
	
Provision for post retirement benefits
 1,175
 976
	
Provision for doubtful debts and advances
 339
 56
	
Fair value gains/losses and Others
 1,226
 1,112
	
Mat Credit Entitlements
 262
 1,919
 3,003
 4,063
 (1,825)
 (1,100)
 Net Deferred Tax Asset
 1,12,679
 1,13,305
*Represents aggregate for entities having net deferred tax liability
34  Assets pledged as securities
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
329
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Current assets
Financial assets
 99,073
 95,283
Non-financial assets
 1,68,672
 1,64,766
Total current assets pledged as security
 2,67,745
 2,60,049
Non current assets
Financial assets
 173
 364
Non-financial assets
 70,802
 74,488
Total non-current assets pledged as security
 70,975
 74,852
Total assets pledged as security
 3,38,720
 3,34,901
Total assets disclosed above represent values after consolidation adjustments due to elimination of inter-company receivables.
35  Contingent liabilities and commitments (to the extent not provided for)
i) 	
Contingent liabilities
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
(a) 	 Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts. (interest thereon not 
ascertainable at present).
 	
Sales tax
853
 843
 	
Goods and services tax
9296
4,799
 	
Compensation for premises
40
40
 	
Electricity duty
 673
 673
 	
Water charges
288
 248
 	
Other matters (service tax, labour laws, civil matters and interest claims)
283
257
(b) 	 Disputed demand in respect of Income-tax etc. (interest thereon not 
ascertainable at present.)
 4,599
4,419
(c) 	 Disputed Excise/Customs Duties.
2,987
2,987
(d) 	 The Honourable Supreme Court, had passed a judgement on 28th February, 2019 
in relation to inclusion of certain allowances within the scope of "Basic wages" for 
the purpose of determining contribution to provident fund under the Employees' 
Provident Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The management, based 
on legal advice, is of the view that the applicability of the judgement to the 
Company, with respect to the period and the nature of allowances to be covered 
due to interpretation challenges, and resultant impact on the past provident fund 
liability, cannot be reasonably ascertained.
 Amount not 
determinable
 Amount not 
determinable
Notes:
1. The Company has received investigation report under Rule 129 of the Central Goods And Service Tax Rules, 2017 dated 24 
September 2019 on 23 October 2019 from Director General of Anti Profiteering, which alleges that the Company has profiteered 
₹ 1,848 lakhs for the period 15 November 2017 to 31 December 2018 by not passing the benefit of GST rate reduction from 28% 
to 18% w.e.f. 15 November 2017. Further, the Company received an order dated 11 May 2020 with respect to the above.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
330
	
The Company filed a writ petition with Delhi High Court against the aforesaid order on 11 August 2020. The Company has 
deposited profiteered amount of ₹ 1,566 lakhs under protest vide Delhi High Court order dated 12 February 2021.
	
In the assessment of the management, which is supported by legal advice, the Company believes that they have passed on 
the benefit of relevant price reductions to its customers and considering this, aforesaid matter is not likely to have significant 
impact and accordingly, no provision has been considered in the financial statements and the amount of ₹ 1,848 lakhs has been 
disclosed as contingent liability.
2. 	 The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has initiated an investigation into alleged cartelisation between manufacturers of 
male latex condoms in government tenders for the period 2010-2013 in June 2015. The Company has submitted documents 
required by investigating agency and is awaiting its report.
3. 	 The Company is contesting all of the above demands and the management believes that its positions are likely to be upheld. No 
expense has been accrued in the standalone financial statements for the aforesaid demands. The management believes that the 
ultimate outcome of these proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position 
and results of operations and hence no provision has been made in this regard.
4. 	 It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timings of cash outflows, if any, in respect of the above, pending resolution 
of the respective proceedings.
5. 	 The amounts disclosed above represent the best possible estimates arrived at on the basis of available information.
6. 	 The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
7. 	 Amount outstanding as at balance sheet date represents gross demand raised by the tax authorities, as amount paid under 
protest is not charged to the standalone statement of profit and loss by the Company.
ii)	
Commitments
(a) 	
Capital commitments
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for
PPE
4,971
 4,215 
Less: Capital advances
 (1,136)
 (1,079)
3,834
3,135
(b) 	
EPCG commitments 
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Future export obligation due to import of capital goods at concessional rate of 
customs duty under EPCG scheme *
 41,815
 37,448
Non fulfillment of above export obligation would entail proportionate payment of duty saved
36  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders of the 
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. 
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders of 
the Company and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period, are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified) 	
(` in lakhs)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
331
potential equity shares.
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Earnings per share has been computed as under: (A)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (basic) - 
Continuing operations
 3,819 
 47,952 
Number of equity share
 6,09,23,629 
 6,09,23,629 
Basic & Diluted earnings per share (in ₹) from Continuing 
operations
 6.27 
 78.71 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (basic) - 
Discontinued operations
 -
 2,16,520
Number of equity share
 6,09,23,629
 6,09,23,629
Basic & Diluted earnings per share (in ₹) from Discontinued 
operations
 -
 355.40
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent entity (basic) - 
Discontinued operations
 3,819 
 2,64,472
Number of equity share
 6,09,23,629 
 6,09,23,629
Basic & Diluted earnings per share (in ₹) from Discontinued 
operations
 6.27 
 434.11
37(a)  Details of Employee benefits obligations
I. 	
Details of Defined Contribution Plan
	
The Group has certain defined contribution plan. Contributions are made to provident fund, ESIC, super annuation, etc. for 
employees as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund and other funds administered by 
the government. The obligation of the Group is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any 
constructive obligation. The expense recognised during the year towards defined contribution plan is 5.007.94 (31 March 2024, 
₹ 4,580.70) lakhs in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2025 under defined contribution 
plan.
II. 	
Details of Defined Benefit Plan
i. 	
Gratuity :- The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who 
are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/
termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied 
for the number of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Group makes contributions to recognised 
funds in India.
ii. 	 Provident fund:- In case of certain employees, the Provident Fund contribution is made to a trust administered by the 
Holding Company. In terms of the guidance note issued by the institute of Actuaries of India, the actuary has provided a 
valuation of Provident Fund liability based on the assumptions listed above and determined that there is no shortfall as at 
31 March 2025.
iii. 	 Employee benefit schemes recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements as per actuarial valuation as at 31 March 
2025 and 31 March 2024 are as follows:
A.	
Amount recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
Particulars
Gratuity
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
332
Present value of defined benefit obligations
 18,537
 17,495
Fair value of plan assets*
 16,733
 15,168
Deficit/Surplus of funded plans
 -
 -
Defined benefit obligation net of plan assets
 1,805
 2,328
* Defined benefit plan are funded.
B. I	 Movement in plan assets and obligations- Gratuity
Particulars
2025
Plan Assets
Obligations
Net
Balance as at 01 April 2024
 15,168 
 17,495 
 2,328 
Current service cost
 - 
 1,318 
 1,318 
Interest cost on obligation
 - 
 1,305 
 1,305 
Interest income on plan assets
 1,138 
 - 
 (1,138)
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 - 
 (1,467)
 (1,467)
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from experience adjustments
 - 
 202 
 202 
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 103 
 - 
 (103)
Employer contributions
 436 
 - 
 (436)
Benefit payments
 (743)
 (941)
 (198)
Liability transferred out / Divestments through slump sale
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets / liabilities transferred in/ acquisitions
 631 
 624 
 (7)
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 16,733 
 18,537 
 1,805 
Particulars
2024
Plan Assets
Obligations
Net
Balance as at 01 April 2023
 14,202
 16,627
 2,425
Current service cost
 -
 1,201
 1,201
Interest cost on obligation
 -
 1,221
 1,221
Interest income on plan assets
 1,038
 -
 (1,038)
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 -
 300
 300
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from experience adjustments
 -
 (34)
 (34)
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 416
 -
 (416)
Employer contributions
 1,247
 -
 (1,247)
Benefit payments
 (1,352)
 (1,429)
 (77)
Liability transferred out / Divestments through slump sale
 (383)
 (337)
 46
Assets / liabilities transferred in/ acquisitions
 -
 (54)
 (54)
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 15,168
 17,496
 2,328
C.	
Defined Benefit obligations and employer contributions
Gratuity
2025
2024
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
333
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations
 7-20 years
 7-20 years
D.	
Amount recognised in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive income
Particulars
Gratuity
Gratuity
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Employee benefits:
Current service cost
 1,318
 1,201
Past service cost
 -
 -
Finance cost net
 167
 183
Expense recognised in the Proforma Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and loss
 1,485
 1,384
Remeasurements of the net defined benefits :
Particulars
Gratuity
Gratuity
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions
 -
 -
Actuarial (gains) arising from changes in financial assumptions
 (1,467)
 300
Experience losses
 202
 (34)
Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest 
(income)/cost
 (103)
 (416)
Expense/(Gain) recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
 (1,367)
 (150)
E.	
The Major categories of Plan assets are as follows:
Particulars
Gratuity
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Quoted
Government Debt Instruments
 -
 -
Unquoted
Insurer managed fund
 16,733
 15,754
Other debt instruments
 -
 -
Others
 -
 -
Total
 16,733
 15,754
F.	
Assumptions
	
With the objective of presenting the plan assets and plan liabilities of the defined benefits plans at their fair value on the balance 
sheet, assumptions under Ind AS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date.
	
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
334
Particulars
Gratuity
Provident Fund
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2025
Financial Assumptions
Discount rate
6.78% to 7.50%
7.15% to 7.50%
Salary Escalation Rate #
5% - 8%
5% - 8%
# takes into account the inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors.
Demographic Assumptions
Mortality in Service : Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban
G.	
Sensitivity
	
The sensitivity of the overall plan liabilities to changes in the weighted key assumptions are:
 Gratuity
Change in 
assumption
2025
2024
Increase in 
Assumption
Decrease in 
Assumption
Increase in 
Assumption
Decrease in 
Assumption
Increase / 
(decrease) in 
liability
Increase / 
(decrease) in 
liability
Increase / 
(decrease) in 
liability
Increase / 
(decrease) in 
liability
Discount rate
0.5% to 1%
(980.23)
1101.93
(904.22)
1011.57
Salary Escalation Rate #
0.5% to 1%
1049.32
(949.26)
965.73
(877.46)
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring 
at the end of the reporting period and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key assumption 
while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate 
the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity 
analysis did not change compared with the previous period.
H.	
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the end of reporting period is as follows:
Particulars
Defined benefit obligation
2025
2024
1st year
 1,452 
 1,381 
2nd year
 1,084 
 1,065 
3rd year
 1,668 
 1,366 
4th year
 1,729 
 1,746 
5th year
 1,923 
 1,842 
Thereafter
 26,117 
 30,581 
I.	
Risk Exposure - Asset Volatility
	
“The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, 
this will create a deficit. Most of the plan asset investments is in fixed income securities with high grades and in government 
securities. These are subject to interest rate risk and the fund manages interest rate risk derivatives to minimize risk to an 
acceptable level. A portion of the funds are invested in equity securities and in alternative investments % which have low 
correlation with equity securities. The equity securities are expected to earn a return in excess of the discount rate and contribute 
to the plan deficit.”
37(b)  Details of leave obligations
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
335
	
	The leave obligation covers the group’s liability for sick and earned leave. The amount of the provision ₹4,889.85 lakhs (31 
March 2024: ₹4,453.57 lakhs) is presented as current, since the group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement 
for any of the obligations.
38 Related Party Disclosures
1.	
Relationships :
(a)
Other Significant influences (with whom transactions have taken place):
J.K. Investors (Bombay) Limited
Singhania Education Services Limited 
Singhania Education Limited
Raymond Limited
Raymond UCO Denim Private Limited
Everblue Apparel Limited
Ring  Plus  Aqua Limited
JK Files & Engineering Limited
JK Talabot Limited
Maini Precision Products Limited
Ten  X  Realty Limited 
J.K. Maini Global Aerospace Limited
Raymond Limited Employees Provident Fund
Raymond Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 
J K Ansell Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme
(b)
Key Management Personnel and Relatives of Key Management Personnel (with whom transactions have taken 
place):
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania
Executive Chairman
Mr. Sunil Kataria (w.e.f. 1st July, 2024 upto 31st March, 2025)
Managing Director
Mrs. Priti Alkari
Company Secretary
Mr. Sameer Shah
CFO
Mrs. Nawaz Gautam Singhania
Non Executive Director
Non executive directors and Independent directors and enterprises over which they are able to exercise 
significant influence (with whom transactions have taken place):
Mr. Mahendra Doshi
Director
Mr. Kummamuri Narasimha Murthy
Independent Director
Mr. Veneet Nayar
Independent Director
Mr. Rajiv Sharma
Independent Director
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal 
Independent Director
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Independent Director
Mrs. Anisha Motwani
Independent Director
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal (resigned w.e.f. 11th April, 2025)
Non Executive Director
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada (from 27th March, 2024 upto 16th July, 2024)
Independent Director
Note : Related party relationship is as identified by management of holding company.
2.	
Transactions carried out with related parties referred in 1 above, in ordinary course of business:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
336
Nature of transactions
Significant Influence
KMPs
Referred in 1 (a) above
Referred in 1 (b) above
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March 2024
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March 2024
Transactions during the period:
Sales :
Goods & materials
 25,694
 29,919
 -
 -
Purchases :
Goods & materials
 36,027
 43,913
 -
 -
Expenses :
Job work charges
 983
 1,419
 -
 -
Commission to selling agent
 725
 994
 -
 -
Remuneration
 -
 -
 -
Interest paid
 18
 38
 -
 -
Employee benefits expense #
 -
 -
 601
 424
Directors sitting fees & commission
 -
 -
 78
 66
Directors professional fees
 -
 -
 50
 -
Employer contribution to PF trust
 569
 1,175
 -
 -
Employer contribution to Gratuity trust
 421
 1,039
 -
 -
Other reimbursements
 1,051
 -
 -
 -
Other Receipts :
Deputation of staff
 83
 43
 -
 -
Other reimbursements
 1,259
 -
 -
 -
Finance :
Deposit paid
 -
 300
 -
 -
3.	
Balances with related parties referred in 1 above, in ordinary course of business:
Nature of transactions
Significant Influence
KMPs
Referred in 1 (a) above
Referred in 1 (b) above
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Outstandings :
Receivable
 5,806 
 6,978 
 - 
 - 
Other receivable
 922 
 62 
 - 
 - 
Payable
 7,595 
 9,868 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liability (payable)
 - 
 15 
 8 
 7 
Agency / Property deposits payable
 224 
 224 
 - 
 - 
Property deposits receivable
 1 
 1 
 - 
 - 
4.	
Disclosure in respect of material transactions with related parties during the year:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
337
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Sales :
Goods & materials
JK Files & Engineering Ltd.
-
 6
Ten X Realty Ltd.
 -
 15
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 213
 210
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 25,466
 29,687
Maini Precision Products Limited
 14
 -
Purchases :
Goods & materials
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 802
 257
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 35,225
 43,656
Expenses :
Job work charges
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 879
 1,419
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 104
Commission to selling agent
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 725
 994
Interest paid
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 18
 38
Other reimbursements
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 74
 -
Raymond Limited
 938
 -
J.K Helene Curtis Limited
 39
 -
JK Maini Global Aerospace Limited
-
 -
Directors sitting fees & commission
Gautam Hari Singhania
 5
 7
Nawaz Singhania
 -
 7
Mahendra Doshi
 11
 12
Ravindra Dhariwal
 12
 10
Kummamuri Narasimha Murthy
 10
 1
Veneet Nayar
 9
 -
Rajiv Sharma
 4
 -
Dinesh Kumar Lal
 10
 -
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
 9
 -
Anisha Motwani
 7
 -
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
338
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Rashmi Brijgopal Mundada
 3
 -
Manoj Kumar
 -
 7
MR Prasanna
 -
 7
Rajeev Bakshi
 -
 7
Vidya Rajarao
 -
 8
Mundada Rashmi Brijgopal
 -
 1
Directors professional fees
Ravindra Dhariwal
 50
 -
Employer contribution to provident fund trust
Raymond Limited Employees Provident Fund
 569
 1,175
Employer contribution to gratuity trust
Raymond Limited Employees Gratuity Fund
 421
 905
J K Ansell Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme
 -
 134
Other Receipts :
Deputation of staff
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 83 
 43
Other reimbursements
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 206 
 -
Raymond Limited
 447 
 -
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 162 
 -
Everblue Apparel Ltd.
 24 
 -
Ring Plus Aqua Ltd.
 128 
 -
JK Talabot Ltd.
 2 
 -
JK Files & Engineering Ltd.
 242 
 -
Maini Precision Products Limited
 59 
 -
Ten X Realty Ltd.
 14 
 -
Finance :
Deposit paid
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 -
 300
# Employee benefits expense - Key Management Personnel (Executive Director’s) compensation
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
a) Short- term employee benefits
 503
 424
b) Post- employment benefits
 98
 -
Total
 601
 424
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
339
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Outstandings :
Payable
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 139
 103
Singhania Education Services Ltd.
 -
 57
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 6,779
 9,709
Raymond Limited
 622
 -
J.K Helene Curtis Limited
 54
 -
JK Maini Global Aerospace Limited
 1
 -
Receivable
JK Files & Engineering Ltd.
 1
-
Ten X Realty Ltd.
 -
 15
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 80
 56
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 5,726
 6,907
Other receivable
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 66
 62
Raymond Limited
 419
 -
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 181
 -
Everblue Apparel Ltd.
 28
 -
Ring Plus Aqua Ltd.
 56
 -
JK Talabot Ltd.
 1
 -
JK Files & Engineering Ltd.
 93
 -
Maini Precision Products Limited
 66
 -
Ten X Realty Ltd.
 12
 -
Other payable
J.K. Helene Curtis Limited
 -
 15
Gautam Hari Singhania
 -
 1
Anisha Motwani
 1
 -
Dinesh Kumar Lal
 1
 -
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
 1
 -
Kummamuri Narasimha Murthy
 1
 1
Mahendra Doshi
 1
 1
Mundada Rashmi Brijgopal
 -
 1
Ravindra Dhariwal
 1
 1
Veneet Nayar
 1
 -
Rajiv Sharma
 1
 -
Nawaz Singhania
 -
 1
Agency / Property deposits payable
J K Investors (Bombay) Ltd.
 224
 224
Property deposits receivable
Raymond Uco Denim Pvt. Ltd.
 1
 1
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
340
39 Segment information
Operating segments:
a) 	
Textile : Branded fabric
b)	
Shirting : Shirting fabric (B to B)
c) 	
Apparel: Branded ready made garments
d)	
Garmenting : Garment manufacturing
e)	
Others : Sexual wellness
Identification of segments:
The Chief Operational Decision Maker monitors the operating results of its business segment separately for the purpose of making 
decision about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and 
is measured consistently with profit or loss in the financial statements. The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses 
and assets is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Operating segment have been identified on the basis of nature of products and other quantitative criteria specified in the Ind AS 108.
Segment revenue and results:
The expenses and income which are not directly attributable to any business segment are shown as unallocable expenditure (net of 
allocable income).
Segment assets and liabilities:
Segment assets include all operating assets used by the operating segment and mainly consist of property, plant and equipment, 
trade receivables, inventories and other operating assets. Segment liabilities primarily includes trade payable and other liabilities. 
Common assets and liabilities which can not be allocated to any of the business segment are shown as unallocable assets / liabilities.
Inter segment transfer:
Inter segment revenues are recognised at sales price. The same is based on market, price and business risks. Profit or loss on inter 
segment transfer are eliminated at the group level.
(a) 	 Summary of segment information as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 is as follows:
 Particulars
 Textile
 Shirting
 Apparel
 Garmenting
 Others
 elimination
 Total
Segment revenue
External revenue
 2,80,409 
 66,793 
 1,59,284 
 1,01,721 
 9,466 
 - 
 6,17,673 
Inter-segment revenue
 19,814 
 13,165 
 - 
 5,120 
 - 
 (38,100)
 - 
Total revenue
 3,00,223 
 79,958 
 1,59,284 
 1,06,841 
 9,466 
 (38,100)
 6,17,673 
Segment result
 27,987 
 7,740 
 (6,623)
 2,240 
 (1,182)
 98 
 30,260 
Add / (Less):
Unallocated income/
(expenses) (net)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (4,771)
Finance costs (unallocable)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (13,260)
Exceptional Items (net) (Refer 
note 46)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (6,228)
Tax expense / (credit)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (2,182)
Profit for the period from 
discontinued operation
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Net profit
 3,821
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
341
 Particulars
 Textile
 Shirting
 Apparel
 Garmenting
 Others
 elimination
 Total
Segment revenue
 External revenue
 3,18,891 
 69,139 
 1,58,700 
 98,692 
 8,119 
 - 
 6,53,541 
 Inter-segment revenue
 26,102 
 13,860 
 - 
 4,773 
 (44,734)
 - 
 Total revenue
 3,44,992 
 82,999 
 1,58,700 
 1,03,465 
 8,119 
 (44,734)
 6,53,541 
Segment result
 61,465 
 6,264 
 6,210 
 7,717 
 100 
 540 
 82,295 
 Add / (Less):
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Unallocated income/
(expenses) (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,820)
 Finance costs (unallocable)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (14,578)
 Exceptional Items (net) (Refer 
note 46)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (919)
 Tax expense / (credit)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (16,027)
Profit for the period from 
discontinued operation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,16,520 
Net profit
 2,64,471
 Particulars
 Textile
 Shirting
 Apparel
 Garmenting
 Others
 elimination
 Total
Other information:
Segment assets
 5,55,471 
 1,00,924 
 3,48,632 
 1,29,641 
 5,990 
 (24,163)
 11,16,495 
 Unallocated assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,67,105 
 Total assets
 5,55,471 
 1,00,924 
 3,48,632 
 1,29,641 
 5,990 
 (24,163)
 13,83,600 
Segment liabilities
 1,18,152 
 23,256 
 1,39,636 
 33,190 
 2,499 
 (22,890)
 2,93,842 
 Borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,26,957 
 Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,033 
 Total liabilities
 1,18,152 
 23,256 
 1,39,636 
 33,190 
 2,499 
 (22,890)
 4,24,832 
Depreciation and 
amortisation:
 Segment depreciation and 
amortisation
 12,572 
 3,181 
 12,367 
 2,779 
 1,237 
 - 
 32,135 
 Unallocated depreciation and 
amortisation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total depreciation and 
amortisation
 12,572 
 3,181 
 12,367 
 2,779 
 1,237 
 - 
 32,135 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
342
 Particulars
 Textile
 Shirting
 Apparel
 Garmenting
 Others
 elimination
 Total
Other information:
Segment assets
 5,70,338
 99,384
 3,09,125
 1,18,988
 5,184
 (35,541)
 10,67,476
 Unallocated assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,37,994
 Total assets
 5,70,338
 99,384
 3,09,125
 1,18,988
 5,184
 (35,541)
 13,05,470
Segment liabilities
 1,14,641
 24,759
 1,05,241
 44,334
 1,978
 (35,896)
 2,55,056
 Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 82,541
 Others
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,658
 Total liabilities
 1,14,641
 24,759
 1,05,241
 44,334
 1,978
 (35,896)
 3,39,255
Depreciation and 
amortisation:
 Segment depreciation and 
amortisation
 10,051
 3,180
 8,588
 2,600
 211
 -
 24,630
 Unallocated depreciation and 
amortisation
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Total depreciation and 
amortisation
 10,051
 3,180
 8,588
 2,600
 211
 -
 24,630
(b)	
Summary of Segment revenue and Segment assets
Particulars
 India
 Rest of the world
 Total
 Current 
Year
 Previous 
Year
 Current 
Year
 Previous 
Year
 Current 
Year
 Previous 
Year
Segment revenue*
 4,82,474 
 5,29,248 
 1,35,199 
 1,24,293 
 6,17,673 
 6,53,541 
Carrying cost of segment assets**
 10,86,991  10,30,651 
 29,504 
 36,825  11,16,495  10,67,476 
Carrying cost of segment non-current assets**@
 7,89,319 
 7,55,123 
 6,127 
 5,937 
 7,95,446 
 7,61,060 
Additions to property, plant and equipments
 13,973 
 8,939 
 508 
 17 
 14,481 
 8,956 
*Based on location of Customers 
** Based on location of Assets 
@ Excluding Financial Assets and deferred tax asset.
Note 40: Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s primary focus is 
to foresee the unpredictability of financial markets and seek to minimise potential adverse effects on its financial performance. The 
Group’s management oversees these risks and formulates the policies which are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors 
and Audit Committee. Such risks are summarised below:	
a) 	
Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of change in market 
prices. The primary market risk to the Group is currency risk and interest risk.
	
Interest risk
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt 
obligations.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
343
Exposure to interest risk
As at
31 March 2025 
(refer note 40)
As at
31 March 2024
Fixed-rate instruments
Debentures
 20,000
 20,000
 20,000
 20,000
Variable-rate instruments
Term loan from banks
 19,312 
 11,172 
Loans repayable on demand from banks
 84,105 
 45,428 
Bills discounted with banks
 130 
 1,138 
Working capital loan from banks
 2,841 
 2,450 
 1,06,388 
 60,188 
Interest rate sensitivity
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of borrowings 
affected. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit or loss before tax and Group’s equity is affected through the impact 
on floating rate borrowings, as follows:	
Particulars
Equity
Gain / (loss) on
profit or loss before tax
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Interest rate increase by 50 basis points
 (532)
 (301)
 (532)
 (301)
Interest rate decrease by 50 basis points
 532
 301
 532
 301
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s exposure to risk of change in foreign currency exchange rates arising from foreign currency transactions, is primarily 
with respect to the currencies where the exchange rates are not fixed. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial 
transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the Group. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign exchange related risk exposures. The counter party of these 
derivative instruments are primarily banks. These derivative financial instruments are valued based on inputs that is directly or 
indirectly observable in the marketplace.
The Group procures/ sell goods in their functional currency and in case of imports/ exports, it primarily deals in United States 
Dollars (‘USD’) and Australian Dollar (‘AUD’). Other currencies are Euro, Great Britain Pound (‘GBP’), United Arab Emirates Dirham 
(‘AED’), Chinese Yuan (‘RMB’), Bangladeshi Taka (‘BDT’) and Swiss Franc (‘CHF’).
The Group evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk management 
policies. There are earnings from customers in foreign currency which act as a natural hedge against foreign currency risk.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, 
experience and supervision. It is the Group’s policy that no trading in derivative for speculative purposes may be undertaken. 
These derivative financial instruments are forward contracts which are used to mitigate the foreign exchange exposure of highly 
probable future forecasted sales or purchase.”
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
344
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as under:
31 March 2025
Currency
Amount in respective foreign currencies
(in Lakhs)
Amount
(Rs. in lakhs)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
USD
 277
 192
 85
 23,674
 16,407
 7,267
EURO
 40
 30
 10
 3,684
 2,748
 936
GBP
 37
 0
 36
 4,074
 41
 4,033
RMB
 0
 -
 0
 1
 -
 1
BDT
 -
 0
 (0)
 -
 0
 (0)
JPY
 201
 56
 145
 114
 32
 82
AUD
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 31,547
 19,228
 12,320
Less: Forward exchange contracts
 (16,945)
 (4,074)
 14,602
 15,154
31 March 2024
Currency
Amount in respective foreign currencies
(in lakhs)
Amount
(Rs. in lakhs)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
USD
 312
 187
 125
 25,993
 15,606
 10,386
EURO
 30
 32
 (1)
 2,688
 2,887
 (199)
GBP
 31
 1
 31
 -
 6
 (6)
RMB
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
BDT
 -
 0
 (0)
 -
 0
 (0)
JPY
 338
 225
 113
 186
 124
 62
AUD
 -
 102
 (102)
 -
 5,552
 (5,552)
AED
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 (0)
 28,866
 24,174
 4,694
Less: Forward exchange contracts
 (19,505)
 (3,130)
 9,362
 21,044
The following table give details in respect of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts
Particulars
Buy/ Sell
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Foreign 
currency
(in units)
Fair value
(Rs. in 
lakhs)
Foreign 
currency
(in units)
Fair value
(Rs. in 
lakhs)
Foreign currency forward contracts in EURO
Sell
 27
 2,476
 18
 1,592
Foreign currency forward contracts in USD
Sell
 169
 14,469
 218
 17,913
Foreign currency forward contracts in USD
Buy
 37
 4,074
 31
 3,130
Foreign currency forward contracts in AUD
Buy
 -
 -
 -
 -
 233
 21,019
 267
 22,634
Derivative financial instruments i.e., foreign exchange forward contracts are used for hedging purposes and not as trading or 
speculative instruments.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
345
Sensitivity to foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity in the foreign currencies with all other variables held constant. The below impact on 
the Group’s profit or loss before tax and Group’s equity is based on changes in the fair value of unhedged foreign currency monetary 
assets and liabilities as at balance sheet date:
Impact on equity
Impact on profit or loss for the 
year ended
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
USD
Increase by 5%
 363
 519
 363
 519
Decrease by 5%
 (363)
 (519)
 (363)
 (519)
EURO
Increase by 5%
 47
 (10)
 47
 (10)
Decrease by 5%
 (47)
 10
 (47)
 10
GBP
Increase by 5%
 202
 (0)
 202
 (0)
Decrease by 5%
 (202)
 0
 (202)
 0
RMB
Increase by 5%
 0
 -
 0
 -
Decrease by 5%
 (0)
 -
 (0)
 -
BDT
Increase by 5%
 (0)
 (0)
 (0)
 (0)
Decrease by 5%
 0
 0
 0
 0
JPY
Increase by 5%
 4
 3
 4
 3
Decrease by 5%
 (4)
 (3)
 (4)
 (3)
AUD
Increase by 5%
 -
 (278)
 -
 (278)
Decrease by 5%
 -
 278
 -
 278
AED
Increase by 5%
 -
 (0)
 -
 (0)
Decrease by 5%
 -
 0
 -
 0
Other market price risk
The Group is mainly exposed to the price risk due to its investment in quoted equity instruments, mutual funds and quoted debentures. 
The price risk arises due to uncertainties about the future market values of these investments. The Group has laid policies and 
guidelines which it adheres to in order to minimise price risk arising from these investments.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
346
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Investment in equity instruments
 117
 210
Investment in mutual funds
 72,163
 47,643
Investment in debentures
 21,875
 28,800
Impact on profit or loss
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Price change by :
Equity instruments
100 basis points increase
 1.17
 2.10
100 basis points decrease
 (1.17)
 (2.10)
Mutual funds
100 basis points increase
 721.63
 476.43
100 basis points decrease
 (721.63)
 (476.43)
Debentures
100 basis points increase
 218.75
 288.00
100 basis points decrease
 (218.75)
 (288.00)
b) 	
Credit risk
	
	Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises from cash and cash equivalents, bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, 
other financial assets as well as credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables and contract assets. The 
maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets.
Trade receivables and contract assets
	
	The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. To manage this, 
the Group periodically assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial condition, current 
economic trends, forward looking macroeconomic information, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of accounts 
receivables. Individual risk limits are set accordingly. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the customer including the default risk of the industry and country in 
which the customer operates also has an influence on credit risk assessment.
	
	The expected credit loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 36 months before the reporting 
date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted to 
reflect current and forward-looking information on macro-economic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the 
receivables. The Group recognises lifetime expected losses for all trade receivables and contract assets that do not constitute 
a financing component.
	
	The Group has no concentration of credit risk as the customer base is widely distributed both economically and geographically.
	
	Outstanding customer receivables and contract assets are regularly monitored.
Other financial assets
	
	The Group periodically monitors the recoverability and credit risks of its other financial assets. The Group evaluates 12 months 
expected credit losses for all the financial assets for which credit risk has not increased significantly. In case credit risk has 
increased significantly, the Group considers life time expected credit losses for the purpose of impairment provisioning.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
347
	
	The Group has considered financial condition, current economic trends, forward looking macroeconomic information, analysis 
of historical bad or doubtful receivables and ageing of receivables related to cash and cash equivalents, bank balances other 
than cash and cash equivalents, margin deposits, security deposits and other financial assets. In most of the cases, risk is 
considered low since the counterparties are reputed organisations with no history of default to the Group and no unfavourable 
forward looking macro economic factors. Wherever applicable, expected credit loss allowance is recorded.”
	
The following table gives details in respect of geography-wise trade receivables and contract assets (gross):
Particulars
As at
In %
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
India
 70,455
 71,688
69%
71%
Outside India
 31,547
 28,866
31%
29%
Expected credit loss for trade receivables
31 March 2025
Less than 6 
months
6 months - 1 
year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
Trade receivables
 75,709
 5,452
 5,855
 4,607
 10,379
Expected loss rates
0%
0%
0%
0%
100%
Expected credit loss
 -
 -
 -
 -
 10,379
31 March 2024
Less than 6 
months
6 months - 1 
year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 3 
years
Trade receivables
 89,026
 2,924
 2,130
 2,885
 3,589
Expected loss rates
0%
0%
0%
0%
100%
Expected credit loss
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,589
The following table summarises the change in the loss allowance measured using expected credit loss model on trade 
receivables:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
At the beginning of the year
 8,070
 9,142
Loss allowance created during the year
 2,216
 1,014
Provision utilised against bad debts
 (389)
Provision directly associated with held for sale
 -
 (1,696)
At the end of the year
 10,286
 8,070
c) 	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The Group manages 
its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due. Also, 
the Group has unutilized credit limits with banks. The Group manages its liquidity needs by monitoring scheduled debt servicing 
payments for financial liabilities as well as forecast cash inflow and outflows due in day to day business. In addition, processes 
and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior management. The Group’s management monitors the net liquidation 
position through rolling forecast on the basis of expected cash flows.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities on undiscounted 
basis:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
348
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
(refer note 40)
As at 31 March 2024
On 
demand
Less than 
one year
One to five 
years
More than 
five years
On 
demand
Less than 
one year
One to five 
years
More than 
five years
Borrowings
 84,105
 5,022
 27,261
 10,000
 45,428
 15,380
 10,988
 10,000
Lease liabilities
 -
 13,340
 49,061
 39,483
 -
 10,200
 33,673
 27,473
Trade payables
 -
 1,32,367
 -
 -
 -
 1,25,928
 -
 -
Other financial 
liabilities
 -
 38,055
 -
 -
 -
 38,197
 -
 -
 84,105
 1,88,784
 76,322
 49,483
 45,428
 1,89,703
 44,660
 37,473
The Group has undrawn Rs. 88,873 lakhs (31 March 2024: Rs. 120,149 lakhs) credit facility that is secured and can be drawn down to 
meet short-term financing needs. Interest would be payable at a rate mutually agreed with banks at the time of drawdown.
41 Fair Value Measurements
Financial Instrument by category and hierarchy
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a 
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were 
used to estimate the fair values:
1. 	
	Fair value of cash and cash equivalents, bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, 
other current financial assets/ liabilities (except derivative financial instruments) and short term borrowings approximate their 
carrying amounts largely due to short term maturities of these instruments.
2. 	
	Financial instruments are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as individual credit worthiness of the counter-
party. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken to account for expected losses on these receivables. Accordingly, fair 
value of such instruments is not materially different from their carrying amounts.
3. 	
	The fair values for deposits were calculated based on cash flows discounted using market interest rate on the date of initial 
recognition and subsequently on each reporting date. The lease liability is initially recognised at the present value of the 
future lease payments and is discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
4. 	
	The fair value of long term borrowings approximate their carrying amounts due to the fact that no upfront fees is paid as 
compensation to secure the borrowing and the interest rate is equal to the market interest rate.
5. 	
	The fair value of investment in quoted investment in equity shares and debentures is based on the bid price of respective 
investment as at the balance sheet date.
6. 	
	The fair value of investments in mutual fund units is based on the net asset value (‘NAV’) as stated by the issuers of these mutual 
fund units in the published statements as at balance sheet date. NAV represents the price at which the issuer will issue further 
units of mutual fund and the price at which issuers will redeem such units from the investors.”
	
	The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
	
	Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
	Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
	
	Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
market data (unobservable inputs).
	
	There have been no transfer amongst the levels of fair value hierarchy during the year.
	
	For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the standalone financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company 
determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
31 March 2025
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
349
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value - derivative 
instruments
Mandatorily at 
FVTPL
FVOCI - debt 
instruments
FVOCI - equity 
instruments
Financial assets 
at amortised cost
Other financial 
liabilities
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets measured at fair value
Equity instruments
 -
 117
 -
 -
 -
 -
 117
 -
 -
Mutual funds
 -
 72,163
 -
 -
 -
 -
72,163
 -
 -
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Debentures
 -
 -
 -
 -
 21,876
 -
 -
 -
 -
Commerical papers
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,428
 -
 -
 -
 -
Government securities
 -
 -
 0
 -
 -
 -
 -
Loans
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other financial assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 16,616
 -
 -
 -
 -
Trade receivable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 91,717
 -
 -
 -
 -
Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 -
 -
 26,456
 -
 -
 -
 -
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 -
 -
 -
 -
 13,631
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 72,280
 -
 -
 1,72,724
 -
72,280
 -
 -
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Forward exchange contracts
 76
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 76
 -
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,26,957
 -
 -
 -
Lease liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,01,884
 -
 -
 -
Other financial liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 38,943
 -
 -
 -
Trade payables
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,32,367
 -
 -
 -
 76
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,00,151
 -
 76
 -
31 March 2024
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value - derivative 
instruments
Mandatorily at 
FVTPL
FVOCI - debt 
instruments
FVOCI - equity 
instruments
Financial assets 
at amortised cost
Other financial 
liabilities
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets measured at fair value
Equity instruments
 - 
 210 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,463 
 - 
 - 
Mutual funds
 - 
 47,643 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 47,643 
 - 
 - 
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Debentures 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28,800 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Commerical papers
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,350 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Government securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,005 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade receivable
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 92,484 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,195 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,811 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 47,854 
 - 
 - 
 1,61,645 
 - 
 49,106 
 - 
 - 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Forward exchange contracts
 62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 62 
 - 
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 82,541 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 71,346 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 38,716 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,25,927 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,18,532 
 - 
 62 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
350
The Company has not disclosed the fair values of abovementioned financial instruments which are not measured at fair value, 
because their carrying value is reasonable approximation of their fair value.
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs (Level 2 and Level 3):
Valuation technique
Instrument
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Inter-relationship between 
significant unobservable inputs 
and fair value measurements
The fair value is determined using quoted forward 
exchange rates at the reporting date and present 
value calculations based on high credit quality yield 
curves in the respective currencies
Forward exchange 
contracts
 Not applicable
The estimated fair value would 
increase/ 
(decrease) 
if 
forex 
revaluation 
rate 
would 
reduce/ 
(increase)
The investment in government securities is not material to the standalone financial statements. Thus, the disclosure of valuation 
techniques and significant unobservable inputs is not presented.
42 	 Interest in Other Entities
(1)	
	The Consolidated Financial Statements present the Consolidated Accounts of Raymond Lifestyle Limited with its following 
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures (and its subsidiaries and Joint Ventures), Associates (and it’s Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures) :
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Activities
Proportion of Ownership of 
Interest
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
A.	 Subsidiaries
	
Indian Subsidiaries:
(a) 	 Raymond Apparel Limited (till 28th 
March, 2024) (refer note 49)
India
*
Apparel
-
-
(b) 	 Ultrashore Realty Limited (Formerly, 
Colorplus Realty Limited) (till 29th 
March, 2024) (refer note 49)
India
*
Others
-
-
(c) 	 Silver Spark Apparel Limited
India
*
Garmenting
100%
100%
(d) 	 Celebrations Apparel Limited
India
*
Garmenting
100%
100%
(e) 	 Raymond Luxury Cottons Limited
India
*
Shirting
100%
75.69%
(f) 	 Ray Global Consumer Enterprise 
Limited (till 30th June, 2024)
India
*
Others
-
100%
(g) 	 Ray Global Consumer Products Limited
India
*
Others
100%
100%
	
Foreign Subsidiaries :
(a) 	 Raymond (Europe) Limited
United Kingdom
*
Garmenting
100%
100%
(a) 	 Jaykayorg AG
Switzerland
*
Textile
100%
100%
(c) 	 R&A Logistics Inc.
United States of 
America
*+
Garmenting 
/ Auto 
Components
100%
100%
(d) 	 Silver Spark Middle East FZE
United Arab 
Emirates
*+
Garmenting
100%
100%
(e) 	 Silver Spark Apparel Ethiopia Plc.
Ethiopia
*@
Garmenting
100%
100%
(f) 	 Raymond America Apparel Inc. (w.e.f. 
25th April, 2023)
United States
of America
*+
Garmenting
100%
100%
*Transferred from Raymond Limited (w.e.f. Appointed date 1st April, 2023) on account of demerger scheme (refer note 50)
+Held by Silver Spark Apparel Limited
@Held by Silver Spark Middle East FZE
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
351
(2)	
For Disclosures mandated by Schedule III of Companies Act 2013, by way of additional information, refer below:
 2024-2025
Name of the Entities
Net Assets i.e. total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in Profit /(Loss)
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income / 
(Loss)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income / 
(Loss)
As a % of 
consolidated
net assets
 Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
Profit
 Amount
As a % of other 
Comprehensive 
Income
 Amount
As a % of total 
Comprehensive 
Income
 Amount
Parent:
# Raymond Lifestyle 
Limited
98.85%
 9,47,789
(23.57%)
 (900)
121.14%
 1,111
4.45%
 211
Subsidiary:
- 	
Indian
**# Silver Spark 
Apparel Limited
6.40%
 61,372
20.03%
 765
-31.16%
 (286)
10.12%
 479
# Celebrations 
Apparel Limited
0.32%
 3,096
0.27%
 10
0.00%
 -
0.22%
 10
# Raymond Luxury 
Cottons Limited
6.40%
 61,333
99.44%
 3,797
-12.97%
 (119)
77.67%
 3,679
Ray Global 
Consumer 
Products Limited
0.00%
 3
-0.01%
 (0)
0.00%
 -
-0.01%
 (0)
- 	
Foreign
 Raymond (Europe) 
Limited
0.10%
 935
2.14%
 82
4.77%
 44
2.65%
 125
 Jaykayorg AG
0.35%
 3,339
0.07%
 3
18.22%
 167
3.59%
 170
Subtotal
 10,77,867
 3,757
 917
 4,674
Intercompany 
Elimination and 
Consolidation 
Adjustments
(12.42%)
 (1,19,099)
1.63%
 62
0.00%
1.31%
 62
Total
100.00%
 9,58,767
100.00%
 3,819
100.00%
 917
100.00%
 4,736
 2023-2024
Name of the Entities
Net Assets i.e. total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in Profit /(Loss)
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income / 
(Loss)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income / 
(Loss)
As a % of 
consolidated
net assets
 Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
Profit
 Amount
As a % of other 
Comprehensive 
Income
 Amount
As a % of total 
Comprehensive 
Income
 Amount
Parent:
# Raymond 
Lifestyle Limited
99.33%
 9,59,764
96.70%
 2,55,748
(940.92%)
 290
96.80%
 2,56,037
Subsidiary:
-	
Indian
 Raymond Apparel 
Limited (till March 
28, 2024)
0.00%
0
0.08%
 225
0.00%
 -
0.08%
 225
 Ultrashore Realty 
Limited (Formerly 
known as 
Colorplus Realty 
Limited)
 (till March 29, 
2024)
0.00%
 -
0.03%
 74
 -
 -
0.03%
 74
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
352
**# Silver Spark 
Apparel Limited
6.30%
 60,898
1.98%
 5,234
1070.21%
 (329)
1.85%
 4,904
# Celebrations 
Apparel Limited
0.32%
 3,085
0.00%
 11
0.00%
 -
0.00%
 11
# Raymond Luxury 
Cottons Limited
5.97%
 57,654
1.01%
 2,677
374.50%
 (115)
0.97%
 2,561
Ray Global 
Consumer 
Products Limited
0.00%
 4
0.00%
 (0)
0.00%
 -
0.00%
 (0)
Ray Global 
Consumer 
Enterprise Limited
0.00%
 4
0.00%
 (0)
0.00%
 -
0.00%
 (0)
-	
Foreign
 Raymond (Europe) 
Limited
0.08%
 810
0.01%
 39
(330.34%)
 102
0.05%
 141
 Jaykayorg AG
0.33%
 3,169
0.01%
 21
(273.42%)
 84
0.04%
 106
Subtotal
 10,85,389
 2,64,028
 31
 2,64,059
Intercompany 
Elimination and 
Consolidation 
Adjustments
(12.33%)
 (1,19,172)
0.17%
 444
0.00%
0.17%
 444
Total
100.00%
 9,66,216
100.00%
 2,64,472
(100.00%)
 31
100.00%
 2,64,503
** Figures for Silver Spark Apparel Limited are figures after consolidation with its subsidiaries viz.  Silver Spark Middle East FZE, Silver 
Spark  Apparel Ethiopia Plc ,  R&A Logistics Inc and Raymond America Apparel Inc.
# Includes fair valued asset
Note: 43 Capital Risk Management
The Group aims to manage its capital efficiently so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns 
to its shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balance of key elements in order to 
meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. Management considers the amount of capital in proportion to risk and manage the capital 
structure in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust 
the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new 
shares.
The Group policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors 
and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. The Group will take appropriate steps in order 
to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
Gearing ratio
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Borrowings
 1,26,957
 82,541
Less: Cash and cash equivalents and bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
 40,087
 16,006
Net debt#
 86,870
 66,535
Total equity
 9,58,767
 9,66,216
Total capital
 9,58,767
 9,66,216
Gearing ratio (in %)
9%
7%
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
353
# Net debt for the above purpose includes borrowings (including accrued interest) net of cash and cash equivalents and bank 
balances other than cash and cash equivalents (other than restricted balances).
There are no externally imposed capital requirements on the Company.
Dividends
 31 March 2025
 31 March 2024
Equity shares (Face value of Rs. 10 each)
(i)	
Equity Shares
	
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2024 of INR 10 per paid by Raymond 
Limited on behalf of the Company pursuant to merger (Lifestyle Business) (refer 
note no 53) (31 March 2023 – INR  Nil per) fully paid share
 6,150
 -
(ii)	 Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
	
The directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of ₹ Nil per fully 
paid equity share (31 March 2024–  ₹3 paid per fully paid equity share by Raymond 
Limited on behalf of the Company pursuant to merger (Lifestyle Business) (refer 
note no 53)). 
 -
 6,150
44 Government Grants
Capital Subsidy: The Group is entitled to subsidy, on its investment in the property plant and equipment, on fulfilment of the conditions 
stated in those Scheme. The subsidy being Government Grant is accounted as stated in the Accounting policy on Government Grant 
[Refer note 1 (v)].
Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) scheme allows import of certain capital goods including spares at zero duty subject to an 
export obligation for the duty saved on capital goods imported under EPCG scheme. The duty saved on capital goods imported under 
EPCG scheme being Government Grant, is accounted as stated in the Accounting policy on Government Grant (Refer note 1).
The Government Grant mentioned above represents unamortised amount of the subsidy referred to above, with the corresponding 
adjustment to the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment disclosed in note 22.
45 Employee Stock Option plan
The establishment of J.K. Helene Curtis Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018 (JKHC ESOP 2018) and Raymond Consumer 
Care Private Limited - Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 (RCCPL ESOP 2019) was approved by shareholders in their extraordinary 
general meetings held on October 30, 2018 and April 30, 2019 respectively. Pursuant to the Scheme, all the employees, eligible 
under earlier JKHC ESOP 2018 and RCCPL ESOP 2019 (hereinafter together referred to as ‘Earlier ESOS’) became eligible under new 
Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘New ESOS’) in Raymond Consumer Care Limited (RCCL) for share options held in Earlier ESOS.
The Board of Directors vide their meeting dated June 29, 2020 approved that terms and conditions of New ESOS will remain same as 
those of earlier ESOS and thus accounting and disclosure therein has been done in accordance with terms and conditions prescribed 
in earlier ESOS, pending approval of new ESOS by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The Employee Stock Option Plan is designed to retain and reward the employees as stakeholders in the growth and success of the 
Company as they are the key catalyst in progress of the Company. Under the plan, participants are granted options which vest upon 
completion of vesting period as described below from the grant date. Participation in the plan is at the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee’s discretion and no individual has a contractual right to participate in the plan or to receive any guaranteed benefits.
Once vested, the options remain exercisable for a period of one year.
Options are granted under the plan for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. When exercisable, each option is 
convertible into one equity share. The exercise price of the option is ₹ 10 per option.
Raymond Consumer Care Limited (RCCL), has granted Stock Options to its eligible employees of the Company, in accordance with 
the The Raymond Consumer Care Limited Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2021 (RCCL ESAR 2021) also known as the 
New ESOS Scheme with the proportionate vesting period spread over 4 years from the date of IPO with an exercise period of one year. 
The holder of each option is eligible for one fully paid equity share of the company of the face value of ₹ 10 each on payment of ₹ 10 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
354
per option. The fair value of option determined on the date of grant is ₹ 0.11 per option, based on the Black Scholes Model. 
During the year ended 31 March 2024, an amount ₹ 32.89 lakhs has been written back as options lapsed due to termination of RCCL 
ESAR 2021 Scheme via Board Approval on May 03, 2023.
46 Discontinued operation
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on April 27, 2023 approved the sale and transfer of the Company’s FMCG Business to 
Godrej Consumer Products Limited through a slump sale arrangement on a going concern basis. Accordingly, the transfer of business 
was completed against a sale consideration of ₹ 282,500 lakhs as per the terms of agreement.
This trasnferred business is considered and classified as discontinuing operations in the financial statements. The statement of profit 
and loss has been represented to show the discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
A.	
Results of discontinued operations
Particulars
 For the year ended
31 March 2024
Total Income
 4,367 
Expenses
 3,834 
Results from operating activities
 534 
Income-tax
 - 
Results from operating activities, net of tax
 534 
Profit from sale of discontinued operation
 2,66,684 
Income-tax on gain on sale of discontinued operation (Refer Note 33)
 36,822 
Deffered-tax on sale of discontinued operation (Refer Note 33)
 13,875 
Profit from discontinued operation
 2,16,520 
B.	
Cash flows from/ (used in) discontinued operations
 For the year ended
31 March 2024
Net cash from operating activities
 298 
Net cash from investing activities
 6,828 
Net cash used in financing activities
 - 
Net cash flows for the year
 7,126 
C. 	
Effect of disposal on the financial position of the Company 
             Particulars 
 As at
31 March 2023 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
                                     586 
Financial assets
(i)	
Other financial assets
                                         8 
Other non-current assets
                                         2 
Current assets
Inventories
                                  5,374 
Financial assets
(i)	
Trade receivables
                                  6,707 
(ii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
                                  2,115 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
355
             Particulars 
 As at
31 March 2023 
(iii)	 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
                                  8,122 
(iv)	 Others financial assets
                                     145 
Other current assets
                                  1,403 
TOTAL ASSETS
                                24,460 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
                                  2,172 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Trade payables
(a)	 total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
                                  2,743 
(b)	 total outstanding dues other than micro and small enterprises
                                  2,466 
(ii)	 Other financial liabilities
                                  1,956 
Provisions
                                     347 
Other current liabilities
                                  4,395 
TOTAL LIABILITIES
                             14,079 
ASSETS NET OF LIABILITIES
                                10,381 
Profit upto 30 April 2023
                                     534 
ASSETS NET OF LIABILITIES
                                10,915 
Note: 47- Ind As 116 Leases
The Company’s lease asset primarily consist of leases for land (reclassified) and for buildings (premises) for retail stores and 
warehouses having various lease terms.
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in note 40.
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities is 8.5%.
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Carrying amount of
Right-of-use assets
Leasehold Land
 20,078
 20,093
Buildings
 94,625
 66,220
Lease Liabilities
Current
 13,340
 10,200
Non Current
 88,544
 61,146
Particulars
 Year ended
31 March 2025
 Year ended
31 March 2024
Depreciation of ROU assets
 15,536 
 11,082 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
356
Interest Expense included in Finance Cost
 7,478 
 4,911 
Total cash outflow for leases during financial year (excluding short term leases and 
including interest)
 19,314 
 13,655 
Additions to the right of use assets during the current financial year
 45,493 
 44,901 
The table below provides details regarding lease rentals payable (minimum lease payments non discounted value) under these non-
cancellable leases are as follows:
Particulars
 As at
31 March 2025
 As at
31 March 2024
Less than 1 year
 21,134 
 15,813 
1-5 year
 69,672 
 47,954 
More than 5 year
 47,126 
 32,167 
Total
 1,37,932 
 95,933 
48 Exceptional items - gain/(loss)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Continuing operations
VRS & Other charges (Textile)
                                (456)
                             (919)
Stamp duty on demerger (unallocable)
(5,772)
                                  - 
Exceptional items - (loss)
(6,228)
                             (919)
Discontinued operations (FMCG Business) 
Gain on sale of FMCG Business
                                     - 
                       2,66,684 
Exceptional items - gain
                                     -                        2,66,684 
49 	 	During the year ended 31 March 2024, Holding Company had sold its entire investment in its wholly owned subsidiaries 
namely, Raymond Apparel Limited and Ultrashore Realty Limited for a consideration of ₹ 125 lakhs and ₹ 1 lakh, respectively. 
Accordingly, the Holding Company had recognised loss on sale of subsidiaries of ₹ 14 lakhs in the Statement.
Note 50
	
During the quarter ended 30 June 2023, the Board of Directors of the Holding Company at its meeting held on 27 April 2023 
had approved the Composite Scheme of Arrangement for the demerger of the lifestyle business undertaking of Raymond 
Limited (‘Demerged Company’) into Raymond Lifestyle Limited (formerly known as Raymond Consumer Care Limited) 
(‘the Holding Company’) on a going concern basis. The appointed date proposed under this scheme was 01 April 2023.
The Holding Company had received requisite approval from National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’) vide its order 
dated 21 June 2024. Respective companies had filed the certified true copy of NCLT order along with the sanctioned 
scheme with the Registrar of Companies on 30 June 2024. Accordingly, the scheme was effective w.e.f. 30 June 2024.
The accounting of this scheme in the books of the Holding Company has been done in accordance with Ind AS 103 ‘Business 
Combinations’ (‘Ind AS 103’) as on the appointed date. In accordance with Ind AS 103, purchase consideration has been 
allocated on the basis of fair valuation determined by an independent valuer. 
	
Basis of above following assets and liabilities of lifestyle undertaking including the net assets of subsidiaries deals in lifestyle 
business were transferred from Raymond Limited to Raymond Lifestyle Limited as on 01st April 2023 ( Appointed date).
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
357
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 March, 2025
(Amount in Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise specified)
Balances at consolidated level
 As of 01st April 2023 
Property Plant and Equipment
 1,94,499 
Capital Work-In-Progress
 1,615 
Intangible assets
 4,77,755 
Intangible assets under development
 475 
Other non-current financial assets
 7,203 
Other Non-Current Assets
 5,310 
Tax Assets
 1,34,129 
Inventories
 1,64,229 
Trade and Other receivables
 55,103 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 14,233 
Other bank balances
 355 
Other Financial Assets
 9,020 
Other Current Assets
 35,833 
Total assets
 10,99,759 
Non-Current & Current Borrowings
194490
Lease liabilities
37698
Other Non-Current Liabilities
2839
Deferred Tax Liabilities
382
Trade Payables
123827
Other Financial Liabilities
35797
Other Current Provisions
7278
Other Current Liabilities
50118
Total Liabilities
 4,52,429 
Net assets at fair valued
 6,47,330 
Purchase consideration
 6,65,800 
Resultant Capital reserve**
 18,470 
*Details of resultant capital reserve
Capital reserve on business combination of Lifestyle undertaking
 63,846 
Subsidiaries Goodwill
 45,377 
Net Capital Reserve
 18,469 
*Details of Identified Intangible Assets
Brand
 3,57,100 
Distribution Network & Customer Relationship
 1,20,517 
As a consideration for the demerger, the Holding Company was required to issue its equity shares to the shareholders of Raymond 
Limited as on record date in 4:5 swap ratio (i.e., four shares of ₹ 2 each had to be issued by Raymond Lifestyle Limited for every five 
shares of ₹ 10 each held by the shareholders in Raymond Limited). Accordingly, the Holding Company had allotted 53,258,984 equity 
shares having face value of ₹ 2 each to the shareholders of Raymond Limited on 11 July 2024. These equity shares were subsequently 
listed on BSE Limited (‘BSE’) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’) on 05 September 2024.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
358
Note: 51 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a new requirement for companies under the proviso to Rule 3(1) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules 2021 requiring companies, 
which use accounting software for maintaining its books of account, to use only such accounting software which has a feature 
of recording audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an edit log of each change made in the books of account along 
with the date when such changes were made and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
	
	The Group have used multiple accounting software for maintaining books of account which have a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility and the same has been operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software, 
except for instance mentioned below –
	
	The audit trail feature was not enabled at the database level for accounting software SAP to log any direct data changes, used 
for maintenance of all accounting records by the Holding Company, its four subsidiaries. Accounting software administration 
guide states that enabling the same all the time consumes storage space on the disk and can impact database performance 
significantly. Audit trail (edit log) is enabled at the application level.
Note: 52	 	
	
	The Holding Company and impacted subsidiaries (‘Target Companies’) had identified a ransomware infection within their 
network that resulted in the encryption of critical user data and disrupted the operations for a brief period. The threat actor 
infiltrated the network via VPN using compromised credentials associated with a local VPN user from 11 February 2025 to 16 
February 2025.
 	
The Target Companies immediately involved external experts and isolated the infected infrastructure. Also, the Target Companies 
promptly took steps to contain and remediate the impact of the incident and short-term goals were agreed and implemented. 
The Target Companies implemented alternate controls and conducted containment, evaluation, restoration, and remediation 
activities as part of their response to the cyberattack with the assistance of external cybersecurity and information technology 
specialists. The Target Companies have assessed and concluded that the accuracy and completeness of the financial 
information post the aforesaid remediation activities has not been affected as a result of the incident.
 	
The Target Companies continue to strengthen their cybersecurity infrastructure and are in the process of implementing certain 
long-term measures including improvements to their cyber and data security systems to safeguard against such risks in future.
Note: 53 Figures of previous year have been regrouped/rearranged wherever necessary. The impact of such reclassification/regrouping 
is not material to the consolidated financial results.
Note: 54 The Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 12 May 2025. 
This is the summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information referred to in our report of even date.
As per our report of even date attached
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Chartered Accountants
Raymond Lifestyle Limited
Firm's Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Bharat Shetty
Sameer Shah 
Gautam Hari Singhania 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Executive Chairman
Membership No. 106815
DIN: 00020088
Mumbai, 12 May 2025
Priti Alkari 
Company Secretary
Mumbai, 12 May 2025 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
RAYMOND LIFESTYLE LIMITED
359
Form AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/
associate companies/joint ventures
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
SI 
No.
Name of the 
Subsidiary
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if different 
from the holding 
company’s reporting 
period
Reporting currency 
and Exchange rate 
as on the last date of 
the relevant Financial 
year in the case of 
foreign subsidiaries.
Share 
capital
Reserves 
& surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit 
before 
taxation
Provision 
for 
taxation
Profit after 
taxation
% of 
shareholding
1
Raymond (Europe) 
Limited
31-12-2024
GBP1= INR 107.12
 0
 935
 9,213
 8,277
 -
 22,643
 103
 22
 82
100.00%
2
Jaykayorg AG
31-12-2024
CHF1=94.28
 1
 3,338
 3,346
 7
 1,032
 272
 3
 -
 3
100.00%
3
Silver Spark Apparel 
Limited
N.A.
N.A.
 896
 18,766
84,775
 65,112
 -
 1,02,465
 1,496
 -152
 1,648
100.00%
4
Celebrations Apparel 
Limited
N.A.
N.A.
 271
 416
 755
 67
 -
 -
 75
 12
 64
100.00%
5
Raymond Luxury 
Cottons Limited
N.A.
N.A.
 12,768
 18,147
70,865
 39,950
 -
 79,966
 5,833
 2,146
 3,687
100.00%
6
Ray Global 
Consumer Product 
Limited
N.A.
N.A.
 5
 -2
 5
 2
 -
 -
 -0
 -
 -0
100.00%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
360
Corporate Information
Board of Directors
Mr. Gautam Hari Singhania 
Executive Chairman 
(w.e.f. 1st September, 2024)
Mr. Mahendra Vasantrai Doshi 
Independent Director
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy 
Independent Director
Mr. Vineet Nayar 
Independent Director 
(w.e.f. 9th July, 2024)
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 
Independent Director 
(w.e.f. 9th July, 2024)
Ms. Anisha Motwani 
Independent Director 
(w.e.f. 9th July, 2024)
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal 
Independent Director 
(w.e.f. 9th July, 2024) 
Mr. Rajiv Sharma 
Independent Director 
(w.e.f. 24th August, 2024)
Mrs. Nawaz Singhania 
Non-Executive Director 
(up to 25th April, 2024)
Mr. Debjit Rudra 
Managing Director & CEO 
(up to 9th July, 2024)
Mrs. Rashmi Mundada 
Independent Director 
(up to 16th July, 2024)
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal 
Independent Director 
(up to 11th April, 2025)
Mr. Sunil Kataria 
Managing Director & CEO 
(up to 31st March, 2025)
Committees and Chairpersons
Audit Committee
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy – Chairperson
Mrs. Anisha Motwani – Member
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal – Member
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi – 
Member
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi – 
Chairperson
Mr. Vineet Nayar – Member
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal – Member
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
Mr. Mahendra Vasantrai Doshi – 
Chairperson
Mrs. Anisha Motwani – Member
Mr. Rajiv Sharma – Member
Risk Management Committee
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal – Chairperson
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy – Member
Mr. Vineet Nayar – Member
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Ms. Anisha Motwani – Chairperson
Mr. Mahendra Doshi – Member
Mr. Rajiv Sharma – Member
Chief Financial Officer 
Mr. Sameer Shah
Company Secretary 
Mrs. Priti Nitin Alkari
Corporate Identification 
CIN: L74999MH2018PLC316288
Bankers
Bank of India
State Bank of India
Bank of Maharashtra
IDBI Bank
IDFC First Bank
ICICI Bank
Standard Chartered Bank
Union Bank of India
Life Insurance Corporation
Yes Bank
Statutory Auditors
Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Internal Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Chartered Accountants
Cost Auditors
R. Nanabhoy & Co. Cost Accountants
Secretarial Auditor
DM & Associates Company
Secretaries LLP
Registered Office
Plot G-35 and G-36, MIDC Waluj,  
Taluka Gangapur,  
Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar - 431 136, 
Maharashtra, India.
Corporate Office
Jekegram, Pokhran Road No. 1,  
Thane (West) - 400 606,  
Maharashtra, India.
Phone: +91 2261527000
Website: www.raymondlifestyle.com
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
M/s. MUFG Intime India Private Limited
C-101, 1st Floor, C Tower, 247 Park,  
L.B.S Marg, Vikhroli (West) 
Mumbai - 400 083. 
Tel. No.: 8108116767 
Toll-free number: 1800 1020 878
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
