 
 
August 26, 2025 
 
To, 
BSE Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Corporate Relationship Department 
 
 
The Listing Department 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
 
 
 
Exchange Plaza, Plot No. C/1, G Block, 
Dalal Street, 
 
 
 
 
 
Bandra – Kurla Complex, Bandra (East) 
Mumbai – 400 001 
 
 
 
 
Mumbai – 400 051 
BSE Scrip Code: 543413 
 
 
 
                NSE Symbol: TEGA 
 
Subject: Notice of the 49th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report for the Financial Year ended March 
31, 2025 
 
Dear Madam/ Sir, 
 
In terms of Regulation 30 and 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015”), please find attached the Annual Report for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, along with the Notice of the 49th Annual General Meeting ("AGM") of 
the Company.  
 
In accordance with the relevant circulars issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, the aforesaid documents are being dispatched electronically to those Members whose email 
addresses are registered with the Company / Depositories. Further, in accordance with Regulation 36(1)(b) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company is also sending a letter to Members whose e-mail addresses are 
not registered with Company/RTA/DPs providing the weblink from where the Annual Report can be accessed on 
the Company’s website. 
 
The Notice of the AGM and Annual Report is also being uploaded on the Company's website and can be accessed 
at https://www.tegaindustries.com/investor/#agm 
 
This is for your information and records please. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Tega Industries Limited 
 
 
Manjuree Rai 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Membership No. A12858 
 
Enclosed: As stated above 
 
MANJUR
EE RAI
Digitally signed 
by MANJUREE RAI 
Date: 2025.08.26 
19:07:12 +05'30'
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 
2024-25
SUSTAINABLY ADDING VALUE
THROUGH ENGINEERING
SUSTAINABLY ADDING VALUE 
THROUGH ENGINEERING 
We, at Tega Industries Limited, are committed to developing engineering solutions that meet 
the highest performance standards while also promoting a sustainable future. With a focus on 
improving the mining sector, we have established ourselves as a global multi-product leader, 
steadily increasing our geographical footprint and diversifying our product portfolio to provide 
holistic value across all touchpoints.
Our efforts in product development, market expansion and technology integration are aimed 
at creating significant, lasting value for our clients, stakeholders and the environment as we 
build upon our foundation of engineering excellence.
What'sinside
Chairman's Message
02
MD & Group CEO's Message
04
Engineered for Enduring Value
06
Engineering Excellence Across Borders
08
Unlocking Synergies: TMML Integration 
Empowering Tega's End-To-End Capabilities
12
Sustainably Driving Operational Excellence and 
Innovation
14
Shaping a Future-Ready Workforce 
18
Embedding Safety: Commitment to a Safer 
Workplace
20
Fostering Sustainability: Commitment to 
Responsible and Vaible Growth 
22
Fulfilling Social Responsibility: Commitment to 
People and The Planet
24
ESG and Decarbonisation: Save in Action Driving 
Sustainable Innovation at Tega
26
Community Empowerment
28
Governance
32
Board of Directors
40
Senior Management Personnel
41
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
42
Directors’ Report
54
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
64
Corporate Governance Report
121
Standalone Financial Statements
149
Consolidated Financial Statements
233
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
AGM Notice
02-41
42-148
149-328
329-343
Disclaimer
We have exercized care in the preparation of this report. It contains forecasts and/
or information relating to forecasts. Forecasts are based on facts, expectations and/
or past figures. As with all forward-looking statements, forecasts are connected 
with known and unknown uncertainties, which may mean the actual result deviate 
significantly from the forecast. Forecasts prepared by the third parties, or data or 
evaluations used by third parties and mentioned in this communication, may be 
inappropriate, incomplete, or falsified. We cannot assess whether information in 
this report has been taken from third parties, or these provide the basis of our 
own evaluations, such use is made known in this report. As a result of the above-
mentioned circumstances, we can provide no warranty regarding the correctness, 
completeness and up-to-date nature of information taken and declared as being 
taken, from third parties, as well as for forward looking statements, irrespective 
of whether these derive from third parties or ourselves. Readers should keep 
this in mind. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
To view the report online, log on to  
www.tegaindustries.com/investor/
Scan the QR Code to know more 
about the company
CHAIRMAN’S
Dear Shareholders,
It gives me immense pleasure to present to you 
the Annual Report for FY 2024–25, a year defined 
by resilience, innovation, and continued progress. 
As I reflect on Tega’s journey since our inception in 
1976, it is both humbling and inspiring to witness 
how far we have come. What began as a bold 
idea to replace conventional steel with engineered 
rubber-based wear and abrasion solutions, has 
evolved into a globally respected multinational 
company, trusted by over 700 customers in more 
than 92 countries.
Our foundation was not built merely on products; 
rather it was built on a vision to introduce a new 
concept; educate the industry; and transform 
mining as well as mineral processing operations.
In our early years, we spent time convincing 
customers to adopt new technologies. It took 
resilience, commitment, and a belief in what we 
were building. Over the years, these attributes 
transformed into pillars defining who we are.
Your company has delivered a strong financial 
and operational performance. Strategic resilience, 
robust supply chain management, and strong 
customer relationships helped us navigate disruptions effectively. 
Operational efficiency and cost optimisation further strengthened 
our market position. By leveraging innovation and sustainability, we 
are setting new benchmarks in the industry.
With a consistent focus on value creation, our revenue from 
operations increased by ~ 11%, rising from S14,927 million in FY 
2023–24 to S16,387 million in FY 2024–25. This reflects our ongoing 
emphasis on innovation, quality, and sustainable performance.
Driving Innovation with Purpose
At Tega, innovation begins with understanding our customers’ 
operational challenges. Our aim is not just to sell products but 
to solve real operational issues through value engineering. Every 
product—whether a grinding mill liner, hydrocyclone, conveyor 
component, or equipment like mills and crushers—is rooted in 
engineering excellence, combining mechanical design, mineral 
processing expertise, and tribology of mechanical, mineral process 
and polymer engineering.
We strengthened our capabilities through Tega McNally Minerals 
Limited (formerly McNally Sayaji Engineering Ltd.), bringing a 
comprehensive range of mineral processing equipment into our 
fold. Our recent engagement with NMDC Limited reflects our ability 
to offer end-to-end performance support in mineral processing.
Health, Safety, and Environment 
We are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy environment. This 
year, we made significant progress in reducing  Carbon dioxide 
emissions, achieving net water neutrality in withdrawal and promoting 
responsible recycling. Our HSE framework—covering operational 
safety, rewards and recognition, consequence management as well 
as compliance—ensures high standards across our global operations. 
Our flagship initiative, DynaGreenTM, contributes to sustainable 
material separation, reducing landfill and fostering a circular economy.
Commitment to People and 
Culture
Over the years, we have built not just a company but a close-knit 
family. Every employee is part of the Tega family. We foster a 
work culture that emphasises professionalism, welfare and mutual 
respect. In tough times, our team spirit has helped us not just to 
endure but excel.
Our governance, ethics and compliance strategy is built on a resilient 
Code of Business Conduct. We work closely with suppliers to 
uphold ethical and sustainable practices, believing that collective 
responsibility drives long-term success.
Responsible Growth Through 
Community Engagement
We believe our growth is incomplete without the progress of the 
communities we serve. This year, 80% of our CSR investments was 
allocated to education, benefiting over 7,500 students across schools 
and technical training institutions. We also supported institutions for 
the visually impaired and neurodiverse, along with environmental 
projects like plantation drives in the Sundarbans, India.
Through partnerships with NGOs like Swapnapuran and the Gram 
Samriddhi Foundation, we ensure that our interventions are locally 
relevant and impactful.
Upholding Governance 
and Transparency
We continue to strengthen our Board with experienced professionals. 
This year, we welcomed Mr. Anand Sen as an Independent Director 
—a visionary leader with extensive experience over four decades 
in driving growth, fostering innovation and optimizing operations 
at the Tata Group. Mr. Sen also served as the Managing Director 
of Tata International. We are optimistic that with his wisdom and 
guidance, Boards of Tega Industries Limited and Tega McNally 
Minerals Limited shall be immensely benefited. 
In keeping with my personal aspiration to dedicate more time to 
coaching, mentoring, and philanthropy, I have stepped down from 
my role as Whole time Director this year. My connection with Tega 
will remains as deep as ever as I shall continue to serve as the Non-
Executive Chairman, supporting the leadership team and guiding the 
company’s strategic direction.
Looking Ahead
As we move forward, Tega is strategically positioned to capitalise 
on opportunities in the global mining sector, particularly in gold and 
copper. With a strong foundation in innovation, engineering, and 
customer-centricity, we are poised for sustainable and responsible 
growth.
On behalf of the Board of Directors and the management team, I 
express my sincere gratitude to our shareholders for your continued 
support and trust. Your confidence fuels our ambition. I also 
extend my heartfelt appreciation to our employees. Their relentless 
commitment and hard work have brought your company to this 
strong position.
Together, we will continue to engineer solutions, deliver value, and 
build a more sustainable future.
Thank you. 
 
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Chairman
Tega Industries Limited
At Tega, innovation begins with 
understanding our customers’ 
challenges. Our aim is not just 
to sell products but to solve real 
operational issues. 
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Chairman 
MESSAGE
Engineering a Legacy of 
Innovation, Purpose, and 
Sustainable Growth
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
02
03
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
MD & GROUP CEO'S
Dear Shareholders,
It is my privilege to share the performance of Tega 
Industries Limited for the fiscal year 2024–25. 
The year posed its fair share of challenges, but 
with every headwind came an opportunity to 
demonstrate our resilience and agility. As the adage 
goes, “A smooth sea never made a skilled sailor.” 
True to this, our journey through turbulent times 
reaffirmed our capability to turn trials into triumphs.
In a year marked by persistent geopolitical tensions, 
supply chain disruptions and global economic 
uncertainty, we remained focused on innovation, 
operational excellence and customer-centricity. I am 
pleased to report that your Company maintained 
a steady growth in revenue of 11%, a testament 
to the strength of our business model and our 
team’s commitment as our gross profit margins 
have held steady at 57.4%.
Our financial performance in FY 2024–25 was 
robust. Revenues reached S16,387 million, 
reflecting a ~ 10% year-on-year growth, largely 
driven by sustained demand in gold and copper. 
Our Operating EBITDA grew to S3,398 million.
As of March 31, 2025, we held a strong order 
book of S10,292 million, of which S5,912 million 
is executable within the next year, signalling a 
strong future revenue potential. Our acquisition 
MESSAGE
I am pleased to report that 
Tega maintained a steady 
gross profit margin of 57%, a 
testament to the strength of 
our business model and our 
team’s commitment.
Mehul Mohanka
Managing Director and Group CEO 
of McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited 
in 2023 began contributing to our 
equipment business, helping secure 
key orders like the NMDC contract, 
bolstering the segment’s long-term 
outlook. While some delays due 
to customer approvals impacted 
execution, we anticipate a healthy 
rebound in FY 2025–26.
Our Consumables segment, which 
includes wear-resistant grinding mill 
liners, hydrocyclones and conveyor 
components, remained a key growth 
driver. The consumable business 
segment contributed 87% to the group 
revenues and the equipment business 
share stood at 13% of the group 
revenue. The revenue from operations 
of the consumable business witnessed 
an increase of S1,396 million or 11% 
with FY 2024-25 revenues at S14,301 
million vis-à-vis S12,905 million last year. 
This performance was underpinned 
by sustained demand from mining 
customers, particularly in gold and 
copper, as declining ore grades increased 
consumable usage. An improved EBITDA 
margin of ~ 21% reflects efficient cost 
management, and tailored solutions 
such as the DynaPrime® mill liners 
strengthened our market position.
Geographically, our revenues were 
balanced, with 21% from India and 79% 
from international markets. Our global 
diversification, including gains in South 
America, Africa, and Australia, allowed 
us to expand our market presence 
despite supply challenges.
Our credit rating has been reaffirmed 
to ‘CRISIL AA-/Stable and CRISIL - 
A1+'. This reaffirmation reflects on our 
efforts to strengthening our business, 
implementing measures to mitigate risk, 
providing innovative products, ensuring 
loyal customer base, geographic 
diversification and comprehensive 
solution approach towards sale of 
equipment, consumables as well as 
services.
Built to Excel
Tega Industries Limited has always been 
the flag-bearer of sustainable growth. 
Our expansion projects reflect this, 
particularly the upcoming facility in 
Chile, which, despite regulatory delays, 
is supported by interim arrangements to 
ensure business continuity. We would like 
to assure you that no sales are impacted 
by such delays. In India, our Dahej facility 
is undergoing debottlenecking, which 
will double its output, preparing us for 
future demand.
Strengthening Our 
Capabilities for Our 
Customers
In FY 2024–25, we launched several 
new products, including smart liners 
and sensor-based systems that enable 
real-time monitoring as well as enhance 
mill performance. Modular screens 
using recyclable polyurethane were also 
introduced, blending performance with 
sustainability.
Our shift towards solution-based 
selling has strengthened customer 
relationships by ensuring continuous 
support throughout the product lifecycle. 
Participation in global events such as 
Mine Expo in the USA and exhibitions in 
Australia, Brazil, Peru and Spain helped 
us gather insights as well as exhibit our 
strengths to the industry at large.
Donning Our 
Sustainable Hat
Our DynaGreenTM initiative in Chile 
promotes circularity by recycling mill 
liners and we aim to replicate this model 
in other markets by 2027. In Samali, 
16-kilolitre-per-day sewage treatment 
plants recycle wastewater, while similar 
efforts are underway in Dahej. Renewable 
energy projects, such as installing 587 
kWp (kilowatt peak) rooftop solar 
installations at Samali and a transition 
to LPG at our Kalyani unit, are helping 
reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, air 
quality management across all sites ensures 
environmental compliance.
Harnessing the 
Transformative 
Power of Technology
Our journey towards Industry 4.0 
gained momentum this year with the 
successful implementation of a digitally integrated 
ecosystem at our Dahej plant. Machines are now 
interconnected through a central server integrated 
with our SAP enterprise resource planning system, 
enabling real-time process coordination.
Digital twins of our manufacturing processes have 
automated workflows, significantly improving 
efficiency. 
Building a Sustainable 
Organisation
For the people
Our success is enabled by our 2,200+ colleagues 
worldwide. Our structured training programmes 
nurture talent and drive professional growth. 
Our adherence to  ISO 45001:2018 standards 
ensures the implementation of rigorous safety 
protocols across all our sites. Notably, in January 
2025, our Chile operations received the Gold 
Certification from Mutual de Seguridad, recognising 
our excellence in health and safety practices.
For our shareholders
Our governance model is built on transparency, 
accountability and ethical conduct. In FY 
2024–25, we enhanced our ESG disclosures, 
implemented quarterly data reviews and 
developed entity-level KPIs to drive plant-level 
improvements. Demonstrating our commitment 
to social accountability, we achieved SA8000:2014 
certification, reinforcing our commitment to fair 
labour practices. We have also taken steps to 
address Scope 3 emissions by working with suppliers 
to adopt green steel and are exploring Green 
Pro certification with the Confederation of Indian 
Industry.
“We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence then, 
is not an act, but a habit.”
At Tega, our commitment to excellence, innovation, 
and sustainability drives us forward. Guided by 
strong leadership and a results-driven workforce, we 
are well-positioned to capitalise on opportunities, 
navigate challenges as well as deliver enduring value 
to all our stakeholders.
On behalf of the Board, I thank our shareholders 
for their continued trust and support.
Sincerely,
Mehul Mohanka
Managing Director & Group CEO
Tega Industries Limited
Purpose. Performance. 
Progress.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
04
05
Annual Report 2024-25
Tega Industries Limited
ENGINEERED FOR 
Tega Industries Limited ("Tega") is a global leader in the design and manufacturing of 
‘critical-to-operate’ consumables and equipment for the mining, mineral processing 
and material handling industries. Founded in 1976, Tega has a presence in over 92 
countries and is trusted by 700+ customers globally. We deliver high-performance, 
abrasion-and-wear-resistant solutions made from rubber, polyurethane, steel and ceramics 
essential for grinding, screening and material handling operations.
Our global footprint includes manufacturing 
facilities in India, Australia, Chile, and South 
Africa, enabling us to serve our customers 
with consistency, speed and reliability. Our 
strong R&D, stringent quality control and 
strong customer engagement helps us carve 
a distinct niché in the industry. 
Committed to engineering 
flawless solutions that enrich the 
future of mining
Integrity, Fairness, Transparency, Empathy, Sustainability, Family culture, Growth and 
innovation, Social development, Customer-first approach, Safety and wellness of 
employees, Value creation for partners and stakeholders
To distinguish ourselves in providing lasting solutions 
to complex problems of material handling, wear 
and separation of ores found in mining and mineral 
processing industries
Built on the pillars of innovation, quality and 
close customer engagement, Tega continues 
to push the boundaries of performance, 
making it the partner of choice for mission-
critical applications across the global mining 
value chain.
Vision
Values
Mission
ENDURING VALUE
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
06
07
We serve a diverse customer base through an extensive network of manufacturing 
units and sales offices spread across key domestic and international locations. Our 
strategically positioned facilities enable us to deliver high-performance solutions while 
ensuring agility, responsiveness, and close engagement with customers across the world.
ENGINEERING EXCELLENCE
Customer base in
ACROSS BORDERS
Tega Industries 
Limited
Dahej, Gujarat
Samali, West Bengal
Kalyani, West Bengal
 Chile
 South Africa
 Australia
Mill liners, wear products,  
screens and trommels
Mill liners, wear products, hydrocyclones,  
screens, trommels and conveyor products
Mill liners, conveyor products, chute liners  
and pump liners and hydrocyclones
Mill liners, trommels, chute liners,  
screens, pipes and pipe repair
Mill liners, trommels,  
chute liners, screens
Trommels, chute liners
Tega McNally Minerals 
Limited
Vadodara, Gujarat 
Bengaluru, Karnataka 
Asansol, West Bengal 
 
Kumardubi, Jharkhand
Crushers, vibrating screens, feeders and  
other material handling equipments
Thickener, pumps, filter press,  
flotation cells, sand washing plant
Vibrating screens, feeders, ball mills,  
crushers and job shops
Mills, crushers, screen, feeders  
and job shops
92+
Countries with Customer 
Base
10
Manufacturing Plants
13
Global Sales Office
Australia
Brazil
Peru
Chile
Canada
USA
Sweden
Russia
India
Mexico
South Africa
Ghana
Plant 
Locations
Capabilities
700+
Customers
UAE
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
08
09
08
09
Corporate Overview
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
10
11
UNLOCKING SYNERGIES: 
The acquisition of McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited, renamed as Tega McNally Minerals Limited (TMML) in 2023, 
has proven to be a pivotal decision in Tega’s evolution into a comprehensive solutions provider across the mineral 
processing value chain. 
TMML brings with it over six decades of engineering excellence, with 
proven capabilities in designing, manufacturing, and commissioning 
of capital equipment across crushing, grinding, screening, thickening, 
flotation, filtration, material handling and waste-water management.
TMML’s portfolio includes critical equipment such as stacker reclaimers, 
wagon tipplers, crushers, rotary breakers, grinding mills, thickeners, 
flotation cells, pressure filters, vibrating screens, and slurry pumps, along 
with a track record of executing turnkey mineral processing projects. 
This deep process knowledge and engineering backbone significantly 
enhances Tega’s ability to support complex plant requirements beyond 
wear solutions.
TMML INTEGRATION EMPOWERING TEGA’S END-TO-END 
CAPABILITIES
Broader Offering Across Lifecycle
Tega can now serve both the consumable and capital equipment 
needs of clients, enabling participation from early project stages 
through to maintenance and upgrades.
Entry into Equipment Supply and 
Turnkey Projects
With TMML’s experience in designing and delivering complete 
process systems, Tega can now address brownfield expansions, 
greenfield projects, and large-scale equipment installations with 
credibility and technical depth.
Enhanced Capability in Audits and 
Optimisation
TMML’s process engineering expertise strengthens Tega’s ability to offer 
plant audits, equipment health checks, and process optimisation; especially 
across stages like crushing, screening, flotation, and filtration.
Aftermarket Growth Through Spares and 
Services
The addition of TMML equipment creates new opportunities for spares 
supply, refurbishments, and maintenance contracts, boosting recurring 
revenue potential.
Mapping TMML Synergy to Tega’s Key Opportunity Areas
Opportunity Area
Status Post-TMML  
Acquisition
Supply of Consumables
Supply of Spares
Equipment Health Check-up
Operation & Maintenance Services
Supply of Equipment
Upgrades of Equipment
Specialised Plant Audit Consultancy
Life Cycle Services
Tega’s core area (mill liners, screen media, hydrocyclones, conveyor 
accessories) continues unchanged. TMML spares may indirectly support 
this area.
TMML’s portfolio adds high-value spares for rotating and process 
equipment, opening recurring revenue streams.
With capital equipment in its portfolio, Tega can now offer predictive 
and preventive health checks—previously limited to wear components.
Tega can now bundle consumables and equipment with annual 
maintenance contracts, especially for TMML-installed units.
Through TMML, Tega now supplies capital equipment like mills, stackers, 
wagon tipplers, crushers, feeders, screens, thickeners, flotation cells, 
centrifuge and pumps.
With TMML’s engineering capabilities, Tega can now offer retrofits, 
upgrades, and redesigns of installed plant equipment.
TMML’s process engineering teams enable Tega to offer performance 
audits across crushing, grinding, screening, and mineral beneficiation 
and material handling.
Tega can now offer full lifecycle solutions—equipment + consumables 
+ wear monitoring + service support.
Strengthened
Unlocked
Unlocked
Unlocked
Unlocked
Unlocked
Expanded
Unlocked
Strengthened
Expanded
Strengthened
Together, the Tega–TMML partnership offers customers a one-stop destination capable of delivering durability through materials, efficiency 
through design, and performance through integrated solutions. This synergy is not only unlocking value in existing markets but also enabling 
entry into newer process areas and industries.
How Tega Benefits from this Synergy
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
12
13
SUSTAINABLY DRIVING
As a global leader in the designing and manufacturing of ‘critical-to-operate’ consumables, we constantly drive 
toward continuous improvement across all our business processes. 
Our ongoing focus on sustainability and operational excellence drives us to implement advanced technologies and expand our global presence, 
ensuring we deliver the highest-quality product while minimising environmental impact. Strategically located manufacturing facilities streamline 
our production and distribution, enabling us to serve global markets effectively and respond swiftly to customer needs. Our people remain 
at the heart of our achievements, fostering a culture of excellence and innovation that sets us apart within the industry.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION 
From manufacturing critical mining 
consumables to delivering customised 
material handling solutions, we offer end-
to-end manufacturing capabilities backed by 
relentless innovation.
Our commitment to innovation, quality 
control, and sustainable growth has positioned 
us as a key player in the industry with a focus 
on meeting evolving market demands. By 
focusing on both innovation and operational 
efficiency, we have strengthened our ability 
to deliver customised, high-quality solutions 
ISO 9001, 14001, 45001 and 
SA 8000 certified plants
Elevating Our Manufacturing Expertise
to our customers. Our continued investment 
in technology, process optimisation and 
workforce development has enabled us to 
address evolving industry demands whilst 
supporting sustainable growth and long-term 
value creation. By manufacturing efficient 
mineral processing equipment alongside 
consumables, we have transformed into a 
complete solution provider. This integration 
has enabled us to offer a comprehensive 
range of products, further enhancing our 
value proposition and opening the door to 
new growth opportunities. 
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
14
15
Ramping Up Our Facilities
Focus: Energy self-sufficiency
Action: Commissioning 587 KW solar power 
facility
Goal: Scaling up to 1 MW in future to support 
sustainability initiatives
Focus: 
Modernisation 
and 
smart 
manufacturing
Action: Upgrading legacy systems to Industry 
4.0 standards
Impact: Enhanced productivity, streamlined 
operations and top-notch manufacturing 
capabilities
Focus: Global expansion
Action: Developing new facility
Goal: Enhanced service for South American 
market and growing regional demand
Samali Plant
Kalyani Plant
Chile Plant
Upholding the trust of our customers and 
driving sustained value creation necessitates 
a strong emphasis on quality control across 
all aspects of our manufacturing processes. 
This is why we comply with the highest quality 
standards by seamlessly blending traditional 
craftsmanship and digital technologies. 
We are now implementing a Total Quality 
Management (TQM) programme, which includes 
multi-tier audits and process enhancements 
to ensure top-tier quality in operations. The 
programme is being integrated into our 
organisational framework to conduct structured 
audits, resolve performance challenges through 
quality circles, and to identify and resolve 
problem areas methodically. Further, recognising 
that TQM is a synergistic process involving both 
machines and people, we are collaborating 
closely with the Human Resource Department 
for its effective implementation. This TQM 
training is comprehensive, encompassing all 
levels from white-collar employees to permanent 
and contractual blue-collar employees, ensuring 
a uniform focus on skill enhancement and 
operational efficiency.
Focused R&D
Our comprehensive solutions are backed 
by advanced R&D and manufacturing 
practices. Our robust R&D capabilities 
have yielded ten global patents and 
multiple innovative products. We focus 
on engineering customised products that 
meet the specific needs of our clients. From 
developing DynaPrime® mill liners to Rapido 
screening solutions, we continue to prioritise 
consistent innovation. Site-specific designs and 
continuous improvements also help ensure 
our clients receive solutions optimised for 
their unique operational environments and 
challenges.
03
10
R&D Facilities 
Global Patents
Integrating Smart 
Technologies
By incorporating cutting-edge technologies, we 
are seeking to enhance operational efficiency 
and product quality, aligning with Industry 4.0 
standards. One of the recent developments 
includes automating some of our processes 
with digital twins, which replicate every aspect 
of equipment operations. As part of this, 
machines are interconnected via a central 
server integrated within our SAP system, 
facilitating seamless two-way data exchange. 
This configuration ensures precise process 
control, with machines programmed to execute 
tasks based on predefined parameters, such 
as temperature, timing and quality standards.
Our digitalisation initiatives extend to 
integrating automation with human intelligence, 
enabling manual overrides while recording data 
for future analysis. This data collection forms 
the foundation of big data, which drives the 
deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) to 
optimise decision-making and reduce reliance 
on human intervention. The ultimate objective 
is to automate even the nuanced decisions 
currently managed manually, all while ensuring 
consistency and efficiency.
Optimising Our Supply 
Chain
Managing our supply chain efficiently is critical 
for sustaining our industry leadership. To this 
end, we are undertaking several key initiatives, 
such as pursuing digitalisation and deploying 
Industry 4.0 across our operations. Additionally, 
we have integrated advanced technologies, 
including Digital Twin, to replicate our processes 
in real-time and ensure greater efficiency and 
consistency across all production lines.
Automated Conveyor 
Cleaning (MaxxKleen®)
A motor-driven system designed to capture 
and reclaim carry-back material that falls from 
conveyor belts. This reduces the need for 
manual cleaning, enhances safety, lowers clean-
up costs and prevents conveyor shutdowns.
Continuous Liner Wear 
Tracking
Wear sensors for DynaPrime® liners enable 
continuous monitoring without halting 
equipment. This helps prevent unplanned 
shutdowns, directs maintenance efforts to 
critical areas and integrates smoothly with 
DynaPrime® products.
Proactive Bolt 
Monitoring
The bolt tension monitoring system provides 
real-time assessment of fastening conditions 
and integrates easily with existing setups. It 
facilitates the early detection of failures and 
data-driven maintenance.
Intelligent Mill 
Monitoring
The Continuous Operational Intelligence 
project embeds advanced sensors into 
DynaPrime® products, enabling detailed, real-
time monitoring of mill performance. This 
system supports virtual mapping and delivers 
actionable insights without interrupting 
operations.
With advanced digital tools, we aim to enhance 
the supply chain process through real-time 
transit tracking, digitalised freight booking and 
digitised documentation.
While promoting local integration, we have 
also built a resilient supply chain that withstands 
global uncertainties. Our acquisition of McNally 
Sayaji Engineering Limited (MSEL), now Tega 
McNally Minerals Limited, has substantially 
strengthened our equipment manufacturing 
capabilities, reduced our reliance on third-party 
vendors, and enabled us to achieve improved 
vertical integration. 
Furthermore, our long-standing partnerships 
with key global suppliers, have bolstered our 
supply chain and ensured access to high-
quality materials. These developments have 
strengthened Tega’s positioning and equipped us 
to more effectively meet client demands while 
delivering enhanced operational performance 
across our facilities.
Stringent Quality Control 
Our 
in-house 
m a n u f a c t u r i n g 
reduces dependence 
on 
vendors 
and 
minimises 
failure 
rates.
Mentioned below are some of the advanced 
technologies that we leverage for seamless 
mining operations.
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
16
17
Elevating Talent 
Acquisition Excellence
As part of our Talent Acquisition Excellence 
journey, a two-day Interviewing Mastery 
workshop was conducted by leading HR 
expert Dr. Aneeta Madhok. With over 70 
managers participating across locations, the 
training focused on competency-based hiring 
and the STAR method. This initiative has 
enhanced bias-free recruitment and built 
internal capability in structured interviewing.
Strengthening 
Industry-Academia 
Collaboration
To deepen our presence in premier 
engineering institutions and support 
innovation, Tega sponsored IMPETUS 8.0, 
the flagship technical fest of IIEST Shibpur. 
The event connected aspiring engineers 
with industry leaders through technical 
competitions, networking events, and an 
Industry-Academia Meet. This sponsorship 
reaffirms our commitment to building a skilled 
future workforce and driving collaborative 
innovation.
Learning That 
Transforms
Our Learning & Development (L&D) 
initiatives reached 96% of employees this 
year, with over five man-days of training 
imparted per employee.
Learning interventions covered training on 
advanced technical tools, sustainable design 
techniques, building sales and marketing 
capability through workshops on sales 
methodologies, negotiation skills and creating 
impactful marketing strategies. Programs like 
STAR (Supervisory Training for Action and 
Results) covering 130+ supervisory staff 
focussed on preparing for digitization and 
lean problem solving. Similarly, OPSTTAR 
(Operators Self Directed Teams Training for 
Action and Results) covering 200+ blue collar 
employees, was aimed at preparing them for 
future supervisory roles.
this year with 25 out of 151 new hires 
representing diverse talent. 
These efforts continue to make Tega a vibrant, 
values-driven workplace that people are 
proud to be part of.
Enabling Digitally, 
Connecting Globally
We accelerated e-learning adoption by 
launching a digital learning platform that 
ensures easy access to curated content across 
geographies. This has enhanced self-paced 
learning and promoted knowledge-sharing 
across the globe.
Creating a Culture of 
Belongingness
Our employee engagement initiatives—from 
international day celebrations and cultural 
observances to global contests and annual 
events—fostered a sense of community, 
inclusion, and emotional connection. Our 
continued commitment to diversity and 
inclusion was reflected in our hiring efforts 
SHAPING A FUTURE-READY
WORKFORCE
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
18
19
At Tega, safety is more than a mere protocol. It is a core value that drives our day-to-day 
operations. Across all functions and facilities, we are dedicated to building and nurturing a 
culture where every individual feels protected, confident, and empowered. Safety is deeply 
embedded into our systems, reinforced through ongoing training, and tailored to meet the 
unique operational realities of each work environment.
A Multi-Layered 
Approach to Safety 
Training
Recognising that operational risks differ across 
roles and sites, our training programmes are 
carefully designed to be both comprehensive 
and specific to context. Training sessions at 
Tega start from Day 1 for all our employees. 
Every employee undergoes rigorous induction 
sessions upon joining, ensuring they are well-
versed in safety protocols from the very first 
day. These sessions focus on foundational 
principles of emergency procedures, 
workplace hazards, use of protective 
equipment with the aim of being prepared 
at all times. These are regularly updated to 
reflect new learnings and changes in operating 
conditions.
Driving Engagement 
Through Safety 
Initiatives
In addition to formal training, safety awareness 
is reinforced through a variety of engagement 
initiatives. Safety Week is celebrated across 
plants include activities which include 
quizzes, slogan and poster competitions, 
and mock drills. These interactive sessions 
encourage knowledge-building along with 
employee involvement, making safety a shared 
experience and value.
Hands-on and train-the-trainer workshops 
have been introduced to strengthen practical 
understanding. Employees receive training 
on topics like material handling, including the 
correct handling of bearings and accessories, 
proper usage of personal protective 
equipment (PPE), and proper chemical storage 
and labelling. Specific improvements have 
been implemented to address workplace 
hazards, such as reorganising gas-cutting 
cylinders for safer floor navigation, adjusting 
machine heights to reduce ergonomic strain, 
and installing rubber mats in front of electrical 
panels to prevent shock hazards.
Leveraging Innovation 
and Digitalisation in 
Safety
We are actively exploring how digital 
technologies can enhance our safety 
outcomes. Participation in industry-level 
symposia and external workshops has allowed 
us to adopt forward-looking practices such 
as real-time monitoring, automated hazard 
reporting, and digital training modules. These 
initiatives helped us streamline compliance, 
improve training delivery, and provide data-
backed insights into safety performance.
Measuring Progress, 
Addressing Gaps
We maintain a robust training compliance 
tracking system to measure progress across 
various safety modules. Encouragingly, several 
critical courses show high participation, 
for example, Fire Extinguisher Use and 
Handling of Hazardous Substances & 
Waste demonstrating strong employee 
engagement in core risk areas. We are striving 
to encourage more programs on modules 
such as Manual Handling Awareness and 
Surveillance Protocols, where completion 
rates remain low. As a quest to cross this 
bridge completely, we are advocating for 
closer alignment between training and 
operational planning. Managers and area 
supervisors play a pivotal role in reinforcing 
the importance of safety education by setting 
expectations and examples, enabling and 
encouraging employees for participation.
Building a Resilient 
Safety Culture
At Tega, ‘safety’ is an evolving journey that 
touches every aspect of our business. From 
onboarding and daily operations to audits 
and corrective actions, safety is integrated 
into our systems, behaviours, and decision-
making processes.
By combining targeted training, employee 
engagement, technological integration, and 
strong managerial ownership, we are building a 
resilient safety culture. A culture where safety 
is visible, valued, and lived every single day.
Training in LOTO (Lockout/Tagout) procedures is also highly prioritised, ensuring that 
employees understand how to isolate energy sources before maintenance, preventing accidental 
start-ups. This includes physical disconnection from electrical, hydraulic, or pneumatic energy 
beyond just control panel shutdowns. 
Rescue drills, regular fire response simulations with hands-on trainings for employees, and 
emergency preparedness sessions ensure that employees are ready to respond swiftly and 
effectively in crisis situations.
Periodic and refresher training sessions are 
an integral part of our safety ecosystem. We 
conduct regular workshops covering critical 
themes. Fire safety, first aid, industrial safety 
fundamentals, and emergency response find 
the top places in the list. Employees are also 
trained to identify unsafe acts and conditions, 
reinforcing a proactive approach to risk 
management. In many locations, safety training 
is a prerequisite for accessing operational sites, 
further emphasising our zero-compromise 
stance on preparedness.
We also prioritise Behaviour-Based 
Safety (BBS), a program that encourages 
observation, accountability, and early 
intervention. By equipping our workforce 
to identify and correct unsafe behaviour, we 
foster a culture where safety is everyone's 
responsibility.
EMBEDDING SAFETY
COMMITMENT TO A SAFER WORKPLACE
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
20
21
At Tega, sustainability is central to everything we do. It underpins every decision and reflects 
our promise of excellence, resilience, and environmental care. For clients, it signifies trust in 
our ability to deliver innovative, sustainable solutions. For employees, it fosters a culture of 
empowerment and shared purpose. Our journey begins with the environment—embracing 
circular economy principles to minimise waste and maximise resource efficiency.
Tega’s Sustainability 
Highlights
At Tega Industries Limited, sustainability 
is engineered into the blueprint of our 
operations. We invest in low-carbon fuel 
and technologies, renewable energy, and 
resource-efficient practices to drive long-
term value. In  FY 2024-25, we achieved a 
7.45% reduction in absolute GHG emissions, 
expanded solar capacity at Samali plant, and 
began plans for solar installations at Kalyani.
We are actively addressing Scope 3 emissions 
through sustainable sourcing and logistics 
optimisation. Our water stewardship includes 
advanced sewage treatment at Samali, with 
upgrades planned at other locations including 
outside fence activities. to support water 
neutrality.
A central element of our sustainability efforts 
is circularity. Our solutions like DynaPrime® 
and DynaSteel® liners are designed for 
disassembly, allowing the steel and rubber 
components to be reused independently. 
This facilitates reducing material waste and 
extending product life. Additionally, our use 
of Pyrolysis Oil made from converting waste 
rubber into alternative fuel turns end-of-
life materials into energy sources, wherein 
waste rubber from operations is being given 
to agencies having Pyrolysis Plant. These 
initiatives reflect Tega’s commitment to 
designing products and processes that support 
a regenerative, closed-loop economy.
A Comprehensive 
Approach to 
Sustainability
Sustainability is embedded across all aspects 
of our business—from productivity and 
quality to cost, delivery, and profitability. By 
aligning these with ESG principles, we ensure 
long-term value while driving operational 
excellence.
Tega’s Quest to SAVE
SAVE – Sustainably Adding Value through 
Engineering – is the key focus for Tega. 
More than a theme, it is a commitment that 
influences every innovation and decision. 
SAVE drives us to reimagine materials, 
optimise resources, and engineer products 
that support a circular economy. From energy 
efficiency and waste reduction to water 
stewardship and cleaner fuels, our actions 
are engineered with intent.
A Relentless 
Commitment to 
Excellence
Our sustainability journey is ongoing. We 
continually enhance our ESG practices and 
adhere to standards like the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) and Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR). Through 
transparency, accountability, and innovation, 
Tega remains committed to responsible, 
inclusive, and sustainable growth.
People at the Heart of
Sustainability
Sustainability is also about people. At Tega,
we foster a culture of diversity, inclusion, and
equal opportunity; especially empowering
all, especially women, to lead and shape a
sustainable future.
FOSTERING SUSTAINABILITY
COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE AND VIABLE GROWTH
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
22
23
At Tega, we believe true success is defined not only by business milestones but by the 
positive difference we make in the lives of people and the planet. Our Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives reflect this ethos, focusing on sustainability, education, 
health, and livelihood development. In FY 2024–25, we are proud to have implemented 23 
impactful projects across diverse areas, strengthening our role as a responsible corporate 
citizen.
CSR Footprint 
Around Our Plants
A significant amount of our CSR budget was 
allocated to community development projects 
in the peripheries of Tega’s manufacturing 
plants. Key investments were directed toward 
initiatives around our facilities.
Fostering a Culture of Involvement and Employee Engagement
Our employees actively participated in Daan Utsav 2024, organised at Tega HQ and the Samali plant in partnership with Swapnopuron Welfare 
Society. Through the “One Fistful of Rice” and “Donate a Book or Stationery” campaigns, employees contributed over 2 quintals of rice, 1 
quintal of dal, and 70+ varieties of educational supplies. The overwhelming response led to an extension of the drive at the Samali plant.
Championing 
Education for All
Education remains our top priority, receiving 
the highest allocation among all CSR focus 
areas. 19 projects have been executed to 
upgrade and renovate school and college 
infrastructure—bridging critical gaps and 
creating a better learning environment for 
underserved communities.
Balancing Ecology and 
Economy
In partnership with the Gram Samriddhi 
Foundation, we initiated large-scale 
environmental projects, including the 
plantation of 6,400 fruit trees and restoration 
of 30 ponds to support ecological balance 
and sustainable water use.
Together, We Create Change
While we are proud of our achievements, we know the journey toward inclusive growth and sustainability continues. Tega remains committed 
to being a catalyst for positive, lasting change in the communities we serve.
We also continued our association with 
SwachhataPukare Foundation on the Water 
Hyacinth Value Chain Development Project, 
which trains 58 rural women in Kalyani to 
convert water hyacinth into useful products—
enhancing both environmental conservation 
and livelihood generation.
FULFILLING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE AND THE PLANET
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
24
25
ESG AND DECARBONISATION
SAVE IN ACTION DRIVING SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION 
AT TEGA
Factored by evolving internal and external demands, mining companies are increasingly 
prioritising sustainability and emissions reduction. At Tega our theme for the year is SAVE 
– Sustainably Adding Value through Engineering. Sustainability matters to us as it is at the 
core of our business strategy, driving both our operations and our long-term vision.
Turning Waste into 
Energy: Pyrolysis Oil
To advance our circular economy goals and 
reduce landfill waste, we initiated use of 
Pyrolysis Oil in partnership with a recycling 
agency. The initiative converts waste rubber 
from our processes into pyrolysis oil; a 
cleaner, waste-to-energy fuel alternative. 
The results reflected:
	 enhanced waste utilisation
	 reduced non-renewable fuel option
	 reduced indirect GHG emissions
	 progressed waste-to-value innovation
	 developed a replicable model for future 
decarbonisation.
Cleaner Energy 
Transition: Fuel 
Conversion in Boiler 
Systems
As part of our decarbonisation strategy, we 
implemented a Fuel Conversion Project in 
our boiler system, replacing carbon intensive 
liquid fuels with cleaner gaseous alternatives. 
This shift supports more efficient energy use 
and advances our sustainability goals. The 
potential impacts reflected: 
	 reduction in GHG emissions
	 lower NOx, SO2, and particulate matter 
emissions.
Advancing Water 
Stewardship: 
Installation of 
Modular STP
To step forward toward net water neutrality, 
we installed 16 KLD modular Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STPs) at our Samali 
facility to recycle domestic wastewater for 
non-potable use such as horticulture and 
gardening. The effects drove the key impacts: 
	 reduced freshwater dependency
	 improved wastewater treatment and reuse; 
and progress toward net water neutrality.
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
26
27
Corporate Overview
26
27
Engineering Better Futures 
At Tega, we engage with communities that we serve 
through focused, need-based interventions that address 
critical development gaps. Our CSR efforts prioritise 
areas where support is most needed, with an emphasis 
on continuity and tangible outcomes. We believe in 
working on the ground, in close collaboration with 
partners and beneficiaries, to enable progress that is 
sustainable, inclusive and long-lasting.
7464
Nos. of Beneficiaries in FY 2024-25
COMMUNITY 
EMPOWERMENT
We support education initiatives that bridge access and infrastructure gaps in underserved communities. Our efforts range from 
strengthening existing government schools to backing alternate learning models in peri-urban and rural areas near our operations.
Students Enrolled
163
FY25
Enrolled in Three Schools 
596
FY25
Education
Disha India Community School
In FY 2024-25, Tega Industries Limited continued its sustained support 
to two flagship education initiatives—Disha India Community School in 
Padha, Haryana, and Swapnopuron Shiksha Niketan in the Sundarbans, 
both located in interior rural pockets with limited access to quality 
education. Through sustained CSR support, Tega has played a key 
role in building and expanding the infrastructure of these schools, 
making affordable education accessible to underprivileged children. 
Disha currently serves 163 students, while Swapnopuron supports 
385 students from Nursery to Class 12. 
Dahej Plant
Samali Plant
Kalyani Plant
TMML Kumardubi Plant
TMML Vadodara Plant
TMML Bangalore Plant
TMML Asansol Plant
Enhancing Education in Plant Peripheries
We have scaled up our CSR initiatives in the areas surrounding our plants, allocating 46% of the CSR budget to 12 high-impact projects in 
these regions during FY 2024–25. These efforts focused on enhancing infrastructure in both government and private schools, addressing 
pressing needs such as classroom construction, electrical installations, seating arrangements, and other essential learning resources. Through 
these upgrades, we are helping create more engaging and supportive learning environments for students in nearby communities.
Supporting Schools at Duttapukur
We have been supporting the operational and developmental needs 
of three schools—Nabapally Primary School, Joypul Nandanik 
Shikshayatan, and Rotary Sarada Shishu Shiksha Niketan. All three 
schools received prestigious Acharya Samman Award 2024 during 
CII's Educator's Conclave in Kolkata. 
Project Location
Institute / Project Name
Beneficiaries
Shri Premji Jetha Cheeda Janta Vidyalaya (Computer Lab)
ITI Vagra (Computer Lab and Library)
650
225
168
125
Samali FP School
Samali Molla Gosh Para Free Primary School
Pannalal Institute (Science Lab)
1652
Panchmohali Middle School
109
Govt. Primary School, Alindra (Interactive Panels)
Kanyapur High School
Total
4230
355
828
97
21
Govt. Higher Primary School, Nosagere
Govt. Lower Primary School, Purasanahali
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
28
29
Annual Report 2024-25
Tega Industries Limited
We prioritise healthcare access for vulnerable groups in our operating areas. Our projects focus on supporting institutions that serve children 
with disabilities and expanding access to basic health services through community partnerships.
Health
Blind School Welfare
We support a residential school for visually impaired students by 
addressing essential needs and enabling vocational training. This includes 
providing sleeping kits to enhance comfort and safety, particularly for 
female students. 
Differently-abled People 
Benefitted
769
FY25
Supporting Classical Dance Education
In support of traditional arts, we extended financial assistance to a 
Kathak dance academy that trains underprivileged students in Indian 
classical dance. This initiative enables access to learning and platforms 
for national and international exposure while preserving India’s rich 
cultural heritage.
We recognise the importance of preserving and promoting India’s diverse cultural heritage. Through targeted initiatives, we support art forms 
that enrich society and create inclusive opportunities for underrepresented communities.
Art and Culture
20
Artists were 
Supported 
Visually Impaired Individuals 
Supported at Kalyani
20
FY25
Plantation is Being Done in 
Sundarban Area
6,400
FY25
Plantation Drive in the Sundarbans
We continued our afforestation initiative in the Sundarbans by 
supporting the plantation of fruit-bearing trees during the year. The 
programme contributes to ecological conservation and supports 
livelihoods through sustainable fruit harvesting.
Our environmental initiatives are centred on improving green cover and supporting water conservation efforts. During the year, we collaborated 
with local bodies and communities to drive plantation drives and lake rejuvenation projects.
Environment
30
Pond Rejuvenations
Water Hyacinth Initiative to Turn 
Waste to Wealth
The Water Hyacinth Project in Kalyani, located in the Aspirational 
District of Nadia, was designed to support sustainable development 
and local livelihoods. Beneficiaries were trained to transform invasive 
water hyacinth into eco-friendly products.
The project involved clearing water bodies of hyacinth and converting 
the material into 7,123 handcrafted items including diaries, writing pads, 
pen stands, utility boxes, and hyacinth paper. Of these, 4,982 products 
were sold, generated revenues to I6,95,255 for the beneficiaries.
For many participants, this translated into a monthly income increase 
of I 2,000 to I 3,000. The initiative blends environmental restoration 
with income generation while promoting circular economy practices 
in the region.
58
Beneficiaries 
We extend support to organisations working with people who are 
differently abled, especially in blind and autism care. Our focus remains 
on creating long-term impact through institutional support.
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
30
31
GOVERNANCE
Delivering Value with 
Ethics at the Core
Our governance framework is built on a strong foundation of our core values, 
ethical standards and a culture of professionalism. The Board acts as a steward of 
trust, guiding the organisation towards sustainable, long-term value creation. We 
adopt sound corporate governance practices, embedding them into our strategic 
and operational roadmap. Transparency and accountability are central to our daily 
functioning, ensuring our stakeholders’ interests are protected. Our approach 
is defined by integrity, regulatory compliance and a commitment to the highest 
standards of governance.
100%
Attendance of Independent Directors 
in all the Board & Committee Meetings 
100%
Average attendance of the 
entire Board of Directors
Key Areas of Board Overview
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have each been associated with the Company for over 16 years. The Independent Directors 
serve fixed terms in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Set the direction 
of Company’s  
strategy
Succession  
planning
Risk and  
compliance
Financial  
control integrity
Attraction and  
retention of  
employees
Risk and opportunity 
identification and  
monitoring
Sourcing  
of capital
Stakeholder  
management
ESG  
integration
Organisational  
culture
Responsive  
governance
Capital allocation 
and investment 
strategy
Mr Madan Mohan Mohanka
Mr Syed Yaver Imam
Mr Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
Mr Anand Sen 
Mr Mehul Mohanka 
Mrs Madhu Dubhashi
Mr Ashwani Maheshwari
May 15, 1976
49 Years
June 6, 2002
23 Years
July, 19 2005
May, 01 2021
May, 01 2021
April, 01 2022
Nov, 14 2024
20 Years
4 Years
4 Years
3 Years
<1 Years
Date of Appointment on the Board 
Tenure of the Directors associated with Company 
Names of the Directors
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
32
33
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Board Metrics
Board Expertise
Board  
Diversity 
(%)
Board Age 
Profile 
Board 
Independence 
(%)
Composition 
of Directors
43
15
57
Female (1 Director)
35-65 Years
Independent Directors 
(4 Directors)
Executive Director(s)
Non-Independent Director
Male (6 Directors)
>65 Years 
Non-Executive Non-
Independent - 2
Executive Non-
Independent - 1
Independent & 
Non-Executive Director
3
4
2
1
4
Business  
& Industry
	 Understanding of  
business environment
	 Optimising the  
development in the  
industry for 
improving Company’s 
business 
83%
Financial 
Expertise
	 Financial and risk  
management  
	 Internal control
	 Experience of  
complex financial  
reporting processes 
	 Taxation
	 Capital allocation 
	 Resource Utilisation
83%
Technology
	 Knowledge in  
anticipating  
technological trends
	 Innovations and  
techniques to create  
new business models
83%
Governance  
& Compliance
	 Experience in  
developing  
governance practices
	 Serving the best  
interests of all  
stakeholders 
	 Maintaining board  
and management  
accountability
	 Building long term  
effective stakeholder  
engagements 
	 Driving corporate  
ethics and values
100%
Strategic 
Expertise
	 Critically examine  
and review business  
strategies including  
mergers, acquisitions
	 Fulfilling a  
director’s duties  
and responsibilities, 
	 Acting ethically  
and morally
	 Actively contributing 
towards wellbeing  
of the organisation
100%
Leading from the Front
Audit Committee
Risk Management Committee
To uphold effective corporate governance and ensure compliance with applicable laws, the Board of Directors has constituted several 
committees. These committees are integral to overseeing key business functions by evaluating the implementation of internal policies and 
procedures. They convene meetings regularly to carry out their delegated responsibilities, offering strategic inputs that enhance the Board’s 
decision-making process.
The committee oversees the financial reporting process, internal controls, audit functions, and compliance with regulatory requirements. 
It ensures the integrity of financial statements and coordinates with external and internal auditors.
5
Scheduled meetings 
in FY 2024-25
100%
Non-Executive 
Independent Directors
60%
Non - Executive 
Directors
The committee identifies, monitors, and mitigates key risks affecting the business. It ensures the implementation of effective risk 
management frameworks and practices.
2
Scheduled meetings 
in FY 2024-25
Mrs Madhu 
Dubhashi 
Mr Jagdishwar 
Prasad Sinha
Mr Ashwani 
Maheshwari
Mr Anand Sen 
Mr Mehul 
Mohanka 
Mr Anand Sen
Mr Syed Yaver 
Imam 
Mr Ashwani 
Maheshwari 
Mr Sharad 
Kumar Khaitan
(CFO) 
85
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
34
35
The commitee Formulates and monitors the CSR policy and initiatives, ensuring alignment with legal requirements and the company’s social 
impact goals.
2
Scheduled meetings 
in FY 2024-25
The commitee evaluates and recommends appointments of directors and senior management, and formulates policies related to 
remuneration, performance evaluation, and succession planning.
3
Scheduled meetings 
in FY 2024-25
100%
Non - Executive 
Independent Directors
The commitee addresses the grievances and concerns of shareholders and other stakeholders, particularly regarding share transfers, 
dividends, and investor communications.
1
Scheduled meetings 
in FY 2024-25
25%
Non-Executive Independent 
Directors
75%
Non - Executive 
Independent Directors
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Mr Ashwani 
Maheshwari 
Mr Ashwani 
Maheshwari 
Mrs Madhu 
Dubhashi 
Mr Jagdishwar 
Prasad Sinha 
Mr Syed Yaver 
Imam 
Mr Ashwani 
Maheshwari  
Mrs Madhu 
Dubhashi 
Mr Mehul 
Mohanka 
Mr Mehul 
Mohanka 
Mr Anand Sen 
Policies that Shape Our Future
We place strong emphasis on maintaining the highest ethical standards. 
A well-defined set of policies guides our day-to-day operations, ensuring 
full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These policies form 
the foundation of our governance practices, promoting transparency, 
accountability and informed decision-making across the organisation.
Whistle blower  
Policy (Policy on  
vigil mechanism) 
Code of practices and procedures for  
fair disclosure of unpublished price  
sensitive information as per SEBI  
Insider Trading Regulations
Code of Conduct  
for all members of  
the Board and Senior 
Management
Policy on Succession  
Planning for the Board 
& Senior Management
Risk Management 
Policy
Business Responsibility  
and Sustainability Policy
Nomination  
and  
Remuneration 
 Policy 
Code of Conduct 
for all Directors  
and employees
Policy on Prevention of Sexual 
 Harassment of Women at  
Workplace.
Corporate  
Governance Policy 
Code of Practices  
and Procedures for  
Fair Disclosure of  
Unpublished Price  
Sensitive Information 
Policy on Related  
Party Transactions 
Dividend  
Distribution Policy 
Policy for determination 
of Materiality of Events  
or Information
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Policy
Policy for Determining  
Material Subsidiaries
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
36
37
Code of Business Conduct
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
38
39
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
PERSONNEL
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Chairman & Non - Executive 
Director
He holds a Bachelors degree 
in science (engineering) from 
Ranchi University and a post 
graduate diploma in Business 
Administration from Indian 
Institute of Management, 
Ahmedabad.
Mehul Mohanka 
Managing Director and 
Group CEO
He holds a Bachelor’s 
Degree in Commerce from 
University of Calcutta and a 
Master’s Degree in Business 
Administration from the 
University of Pittsburgh. 
Further, he completed an 
advanced management 
program from Harvard 
Business School.
Syed Yaver Imam
Non-Executive 
Director
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
Civil Engineering from Jadavpur 
University and completed a 
short-term course in mineral 
processing from Indian School 
of Mines, Dhanbad.
Madhu Dubhashi
Independent 
Director
She is an Economics graduate 
from Delhi University and a 
post-graduate from Indian 
Institute of Management, 
Ahmedabad. 
Manoj Kumar Sinha
Director – Global 
Operations
He holds a Bachelors degree 
in Engineering from Sambalpur 
University.
Sanjeev Mishra
Global Head of Capital 
Equipment (Capex) 
Purchase
He holds a Bachelors degree in 
Science from Agra University.
Pratik Basu Roy
President – Product 
Management, Global Sales & 
Marketing
He holds a Bachelor’s Degree 
in Engineering from Mangalore 
University and a Post-Graduate 
in Management from NMIMS, 
Mumbai.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Independent 
Director
He holds a bachelors degree 
in mechanical engineering from 
Indian Institute of Technology, 
Roorkee and a masters degree 
in leadership plus strategy 
from London Business School, 
London.
Jagdishwar Prasad 
Sinha
Independent 
Director
He holds a Bachelors degree 
in Technology (Mechanical 
Engineering) from IIT-Banaras 
Hindu University and a 
Master’s degree in Business 
Administration from University 
of Pittsburgh PA, USA.
Anand Sen
Independent 
Director
He holds a bachelor’s degree 
in metallurgical and Materials 
Engineering from Indian 
Institute of Technology, 
Kharagpur and a Post 
Graduate Diploma in Business 
Management (PGDBM) from 
Indian Institute of Management, 
Kolkata.
Manjuree Rai
Global Head - Legal & 
Compliance and Company 
Secretary (Key Managerial 
Personnel)
She holds a Bachelor’s degree 
in Commerce from Osmania 
University and is a member 
of the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
Chief Financial Officer 
(Key Managerial 
Personnel)
He holds a Bachelor of 
Commerce (Honors) from St. 
Xavier's College, is a member 
of ICAI (Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in India) and has 
completed a Management 
Development Program in 
Risk Management from IIM 
Ahmedabad.
Shiraj Chakraborty
Global Head of Human 
Resources & Administration
He holds a Bachelors degree 
and a Masters degree in 
Statistics from Delhi University 
and has completed an MBA in 
Human Resource Management 
from Symbiosis Institute of 
Business Management in Pune.
Tega Industries Limited
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2024-25
40
41
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION 
AND ANALYSIS
Economic Environment
Global GDP Growth Outlook
After rebounding by 6.6% in 2021 following the pandemic slump, global growth slowed to 3.3% by 2024 due to inflation, conflict, and 
strained supply chains. Growth is forecast to dip to 2.8% in 2025 amid rising tariffs, then gradually recover to 3.2% between 2026 and 2030, 
driven by supply chain diversification and emerging industrial hubs.
Real GDP Growth (%), World, 2019-2030F.
Note: E: Estimate, F: Forecast; Source: International Monetary Fund (IMF), Internal & Industry Data
Emerging markets & 
developing economies
3.7
1.4
Advanced economies
World
2.8
Source: World Economic Outlook (April 2025)
Key Macroeconomic Takeaways
1. 	 Geopolitical Tensions Persist 
	
Conflicts in Ukraine, the Middle East, and South Asia may 
fuel inflation and disrupt global supply chains. Ukraine, the 
Middle East, and South Asia may fuel inflation and disrupt 
global supply chains.
2. 	 Emerging Market Momentum 
	
 India (6.2%),  Vietnam (5.2%), and UAE (4.0%) are expected 
to lead the 2.8% global economic growth in 2025.
3.	 Supply Chain Diversification 
	
Companies are relocating sourcing and production to 
resilient regions like India and the Gulf.
2019
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
0.0
Real GDP Growth (%)
-2.0
-4.0
2.9
World
2020
-2.7
2021
6.6
2022
3.6
2023
3.5
2024
3.3
2025F
2.8
2026F
3.0
2027F
3.2
2028F
3.2
2029F
3.2
2030F
3.1
Emerging markets will lead, thanks to favourable demographics 
and industrial investment. In contrast, advanced economies 
face headwinds from ageing populations, high debt, and the 
green transition.
Asia-Pacific faces pressure from trade frictions, while the 
MENA region is more stable due to gas investment and 
infrastructure expansion.
42
43
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
4. 	 India’s Sustained Growth 
	
Growth of 6.2–6.3% is forecast through FY2026–27, 
with India likely to become the world’s third-largest 
economy before 2030.
5. 	 Manufacturing Upswing
	
India’s share of GVA from manufacturing is set to exceed 
15.1% by FY2028–29, up from 13.8% in FY2024–25.
Industry Overview
Global Mining And Mineral Industry
The global mining industry remains a cornerstone of industrial 
development and energy security, supplying critical raw materials 
for infrastructure, energy, manufacturing, and technology. Despite 
global decarbonization efforts, coal remains vital in many developing 
economies (India, China, Indonesia) for power generation. Thermal 
coal demand is under pressure, but metallurgical coal remains 
crucial for steel- making. Iron ore is a mature but essential 
commodity, primarily used in steel production. Australia and 
Brazil dominate supply, while China remains the largest consumer. 
Demand is stabilizing as steel markets shift focus to recycling and 
green steel. Bauxite is the primary ore of aluminium, with strong 
demand from the packaging, construction, and EV sectors. Guinea, 
Australia, and China lead production.
5.3
3.3
2.6
1.8
1.1
8.9
Others
Chile
Congo
Peru
China
USA
Source: ICSG
Global 
copper 
production 
by 
country 
(Million tons) 
1,810
120
130
130
130
160
200
290
310
380
China
Russia
Australia
Canada
USA
Ghana
Kazakhstan
Mexico
Uzbekistan
Others
Source: World Gold Council
Global gold production by country (Tons) 
930
440
270
270
91
499
Australia
Brazil
China
India
Russia
Others
Source: USGS
Global 
iron 
production 
by 
country 
(Million tons) 
Commodity Overview
Global Copper Mining Industry
From Commodity to Strategic Resource
With 975 million tonnes in reserves, led by Chile (19%), Australia 
and Peru (10% each), and Congo and Russia (8% each), global supply 
growth is constrained by permitting and environmental issues. 
Electrification has elevated copper’s role as a strategic material. 
China leads in refining, importing much of world’s concentrates.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Source: ICSG; USGS; Internal & Industry Data
Source: Internal & Industry Data
Actuals (2019-2024)
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
20.4
20.6
21.2
21.9
22.6
23.0
23.8
24.6
25.5
26.4
27.3
28.3
3.5% CAGR
Copper: 
Declining 
Grades, 
Rising 
Strategic Value
Declining Grades, Increasing Value
Ore quality is deteriorating (Chile below 0.5%), raising operational 
costs. Peru offers slightly better prospects in new mines like 
Quellaveco, but the global concentrate market remains tight. 
Nonetheless, demand is rising due to:
•	
Renewable energy systems (5x more copper use)
•	
Electric vehicles (60–83 kg of copper vs. ~20 kg in ICE vehicles)
•	
Infrastructure, smart grids, and global electrification
Global Gold Mining Industry
Gold output was ~3,660 metric tonnes in 2024. Despite ageing 
reserves, gold retains its safe-haven status. China leads production 
with 380 tonnes per annum followed by Russia, Australia, 
and Canada. Australia, Russia, South Africa and USA have the 
largest deposits. 
Global copper production (Million tons) 
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024A
2025F
2026F
2027F
2028F
2029F
2030F
Source: World Gold Council, USGS; Internal & Industry Data
Actuals (2019–2024)	                 
3,300
3,030
3,090
3,060
3,250
3,660
3,436
3,582
3,736
3,891
4,064
4,245
4.3% CAGR
Global Historic Gold Production 
Historic gold production (Tons)
Gold: Enduring Strategic Relevance
Enduring Appeal Across Sectors
•	
Supply Limits – Lower ore grades are raising costs
•	
Demand Drivers:
o	
Safe-Haven Asset: Gold remains a hedge during inflation, 
economic instability, and geopolitical risk.
o	
Jewellery: Accounts for 80% of global demand, driven by 
cultural and consumer preferences.
o	
Investment: Rising interest in gold ETFs, bars, and coins 
reflects strong institutional and retail appetite.
o	
Central Banks: Increasing gold holdings to diversify 
away from fiat currencies amid de-dollarization trends.
o	
Technology: Growing industrial use, especially in 
electronics, adds a stable demand base.
Overview Of Global Mill Liner Industry
Mill liners are key in grinding operations for copper, gold, and 
iron ore. The market was worth approximately $2.29 billion 
billion in 2024.
Regional Demand (2024)
LATAM
APAC
North America
Africa
EMER
35%
20%
18%
13%
14%
44
45
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025F
2026F
2027F
2028F
2029F
2030F
Note: All figures are rounded.  
The base year is CY 2024, 
1.83
1.73
2.03
2.13
2.23
2.29
2.41
2.53
2.67
2.81
2.95
3.11
5.25% CAGR
Key Growth Factors
Ore Grade Decline and Mining Expansion:
Declining ore grades and more intensive ore processing and 
expanded grinding capacity, especially in copper and gold 
operations. This trend is driving higher demand for mill liners and 
aftermarket spares across new and existing mining projects.
Innovation in Input Material & Design:
Advances in materials and designs are significantly extending 
wear life, reducing operational costs and enhancing overall 
mill performance, positioning our solutions at the forefront of 
industry innovation.
Strategic Regional Growth:
With Latin America, particularly Chile supplying nearly 25% of 
global copper, the region remains pivotal for growth. Ongoing 
investments and major copper projects in the region are projected 
to boost mill liner demand well into the next decade.
New Investments and Project Pipeline:
More than US$5 billion in announced investments from 
industry leaders such as BHP in Chile, Lundin in Argentina, etc. 
will significantly increase mill liner requirements through 2030, 
reflecting strong market confidence and expansion.
Sustainability and Digitalisation:
The industry’s shift towards sustainability and ESG standards is 
accelerating adoption of eco-friendly liners and digital technologies, 
enabling improved energy efficiency, wear monitoring and circular 
economy practices. These developments are reinforcing our 
leadership in responsible mining solutions.
Source: Internal & Industry Data
Historic, present and future mill liner demand 
forecast (2024-2030) in USD Billion
Industry Trends 
ESG and Decarbonisation 
Mining and mineral processing industry is driving ESG through 
Environmental, Social, and Governance initiatives. From restoring 
lands, protecting biodiversity, and recycling water to adopting 
renewable energy and waste-to-value solutions, environmental 
efforts are reshaping operations. Social programmes focus on safer 
workplaces, inclusive employment, community development, and 
indigenous partnerships, while governance emphasises compliance, 
transparency, and stakeholder engagement.
Decarbonisation, water stewardship, and circular economy 
practices are reducing emissions, cutting costs, and addressing 
resource scarcity. Investments in people and communities create 
shared value, strengthen local economies, and reduce social 
conflict. Strong governance ensures accountability and trust.
By moving beyond compliance toward innovation-led sustainability, 
mining companies are becoming resilient, competitive, and socially 
inclusive, shaping a future where growth, environmental care, and 
community impact go hand in hand.
Company Overview
From Vision to Global Footprint: The 
Story of Tega Industries Limited
Committed to engineering flawless solutions that enrich the 
future of mining
In 1976, a vision took root in the industrial heart of Kolkata, India. It 
was a vision to be committed to engineering flawless solutions that 
enrich the future of mining. Today, Tega Industries Limited is a global 
force committed to addressing critical challenges faced by mining and 
mineral processing industries by delivering highly specialised, durable, 
and recurring consumable products. Through its engineered solutions, 
the company aims to improve operational performance, minimise 
downtime, and provide lasting value to its clients worldwide.
Mission at the Heart
Our mission is to distinguish ourselves in providing lasting solutions 
to the complex problems of material handling, wear and separation 
of ores found in mining and mineral processing industries.
Core Values
•	
Innovation: Continually steering advancements in technology 
and product design
•	
Quality: Upholding the highest standards to ensure reliable and 
effective solutions
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
•	
Customer Centricity: Tailoring solutions to meet the 
unique needs of each operation and ensuring complete 
customer satisfaction
•	
Reliability and Responsiveness: Building a reputation as 
a trusted partner by consistently delivering timely and 
dependable service
•	
Sustainability and Efficiency: Committed to contributing to 
efficient and sustainable mineral processing practices globally
Innovation:
Continually steering advancements in 
technology and product design
Quality: 
Upholding the highest standards to ensure 
reliable and effective solutions
Customer Centricity: 
Tailoring solutions to meet the unique needs of each operation 
and ensuring complete customer satisfaction
Reliability and 
Responsiveness: 
Building a reputation as a trusted partner 
by consistently delivering timely and 
dependable service
Sustainability 
and Efficiency: 
Committed to contributing to efficient 
and sustainable mineral processing 
practices globally
Core Values  
We are  
Driven by
Financial Overview
Analysis Of The Profit And Loss 
Statement
The Company’s revenue from operations registered a 10% increase, 
rising from H14,927.14 Mn in FY 2023-24 to H16,386.51 Mn in FY 
2024-25.  Additionally, other income contributed 2.63% to its total 
revenues, highlighting Tega’s strong focus and dependability in core 
business operations. 
Expenses
The Company’s total expenses increased from H12,723.78 Mn in 
FY 2023-24 to H14,270.78 Mn in FY 2024-25. Raw material costs, 
accounting for 42.62 % of the Company’s total revenues, decreased 
from 43.24% in FY 2023-24. Employee expenses, comprising 
15.21% of the Company’s revenues, increased from H2,198.63 Mn 
in FY 2023-24 to H2,492.07 Mn in FY 2024-25. 
Analysis of the balance sheet
The Company’s capital employed grew by 15.59%, rising from 
H14,349.63 Mn as of March 31, 2024, to H16,586.21 Mn as of March 
31, 2025. The net worth increased by 17.19% from H11,918.19 Mn 
as of March 31, 2024, to H13,966.92 Mn as of March 31, 2025, driven 
by growth in reserves and surplus. The equity share capital of the 
Company comprised 66,535,492 equity shares of H10 each as of 
March 31, 2025. Long-term debt decreased by 16% to H1,190.62 
as of March 31, 2025. The net debt-equity ratio stood at 0.19 in 
FY 2024-25 compared to 0.20 in FY 2023-24. Finance costs fell by 
16%, from J319.54 Mn in FY 2023-24 to J269.04 Mn in FY 2024-25.
Our Focus for Tomorrow
Looking ahead, Tega Industries Limited continues to evolve beyond 
manufacturing into a comprehensive global solutions provider.  With 
a presence in over 92 countries and advanced manufacturing facilities 
in India, South Africa, Australia, and Chile, the company is focused 
on expanding its footprint, leveraging cutting-edge technologies, 
and enhancing its ability to deliver customised, localised solutions. 
This forward-thinking approach reinforces Tega’s role in shaping the 
future of sustainable mineral processing worldwide.
46
47
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
(All amount in I Million)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2025
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Segment revenue
Consumables 
14,301.24
12,905.15
Equipment
2,156.61
2,060.53
Total
16,457.85
14,965.68
Less: Inter-segment revenue
(71.34)
(38.54) 
Total segment revenue from operations
16,386.51
14,927.14 
Segment results before interest, tax and depreciation:
Consumables
3,148.69
2,981.00
Equipment
251.29
180.00
Total
3,399.98
3,161.00 
Less: Inter-segment eliminations
(1.89)
(1.28) 
Total segment results before interest, tax and depreciation
3,398.09
3,159.72 
Add: Other income
431.54
222.05
Less: Finance costs
269.04
319.54
Less: Depreciation and amortisation expenses
1013.32
636.82
Add: Share of profit of joint venture
44.71
44.32
Profit before tax
2,591.98
2,469.73
Less: Tax Expense
590.78
531.16 
Profit for the period/ year
2,001.20
1,938.57 
Segment assets:
Consumables
14527.53
12,248.54
Equipment
3410.71
3,582.15
Unallocable Assets
3045.46
3080.22
Less: Inter-segment eliminations
(31.68)
(9.52) 
Total assets
20,952.02
18,901.39
Segment liabilities:
Consumables
5,245.47
5,324.63 
Equipment
1,668.83
1,599.37 
Unallocable Liabilities
102.48
68.72
Less: Inter-segment eliminations
(31.68)
(9.52) 
Total liabilities
6985.10
6,983.20 
Statement of segment revenue, results, assets and liabilities
Particulars
Formula
FY25
FY24
Debt-equity ratio
Total Borrowings/Total Equity
0.19
0.20
Debtor’s Turnover (days)
Trade Receivable/ (Sales of Products & Services/365)
113.46
111.53
Inventory Turnover (days)
Inventories/ ((Cost of Materials Consumed + Change in 
inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress)/365)
216.62
209.30
Debtors’ Turnover (x)
Sales of Products & Services/Trade Receivables
3.22
3.27
Inventory Turnover(x)
(Cost of Materials Consumed+Change in inventories of 
finished goods and work-in-progress)/Inventories
1.68
1.74
Interest Coverage Ratio (x)
EBITDA/Interest Expenses
14.23
10.58
Current Ratio (x)
Current Assets/Current Liabilities
2.49
2.31
Operating EBITDA margin (%)
(EBITDA minus Non-Operating Income)/ Revenue from 
Operations
20.74
21.17
Net Profit margin (%)
Profit after Tax/Revenue from operations
12.21
12.99
Key ratios
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Particulars
Consolidated
Standalone
Year Ended 
March 31, 2025
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2025
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Total Income
16,818.05
15,149.19
9,507.40
7,658.20
Total Expenses
14,270.78
12,723.78
7,202.83
6,020.42
Profit before share of net profit of Joint Venture 
accounted for using equity method and tax
2,547.27
2,425.41
2,304.57
1,637.78
Share of net profit of Joint Venture accounted for 
using equity method
44.71
44.32
-
-
Profit before tax
2,591.98
2,469.73
2,304.57
1,637.78
Total Tax
590.78
531.16
545.33
372.77
Profit After Tax
2,001.20
1,938.57
1759.24
1,265.01
Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax)
180.60
(382.99)
(1.23)
7.35
Total Comprehensive Income
2181.80
1,555.58
1758.01
1,272.36
Basic Earnings Per Share (in I)
30.08
29.17
26.44
19.04
Financial snapshot 
Company Performance
In FY2024-25, the Company introduced a number of new products, 
such as smart liners and sensor-based systems that facilitate real-
time monitoring and improve mill performance. The Company 
also introduced modular screens with recyclable polyurethane, 
combining performance with sustainability.
At the Dahej plant, the Company implemented a digitally integrated 
ecosystem, automating workflows and enhancing efficiency. The 
machines are now networked through a central server, which is 
integrated with its SAP enterprise resource planning system. This 
allows the Company to track processes in real-time.
At the Samali plant, the Company is focused on developing 
energy self-sufficiency. The Company’s commissioning of a 
587 kWp solar power facility demonstrates its commitment 
towards larger sustainability goals, with plans to scale this to 1 
MW in the near future.
At the Kalyani plant, the Company has driven modernisation 
through legacy system upgradation in keeping with Industry 
4.0 requirements. The Company’s implementation of digital 
technologies coupled with smart manufacturing processes, further 
upgraded productivity, optimised operations, and ensured world-
class manufacturing capability.
By establishing a new plant in Chile, the Company is also expanding 
its global presence. The new facility will enable it to more effectively 
service heightened demand in the South American market.
Advanced Materials & Metallurgical Research
We focus on creating products with materials that enable 
superior wear resistance, impact absorption, and recyclability. By 
advancing metallurgical and polymer technologies, our materials 
extend service life, reduce downtime, and provide predictable 
performance in challenging operating conditions.
Digitalisation & Automation
Our teams integrate sensors, IoT platforms, and AI-driven analytics 
into products and plants, converting data into actionable insights. 
With these digital solutions, we create wear sensors for our 
products that enable predictive maintenance, real-time wear 
monitoring, and process optimization—improving stability and 
reducing unplanned shutdowns.
Sustainability & Safety
Sustainability is embedded across our innovation roadmap. From 
circular economy models and emissions reduction to energy 
efficiency, our R&D delivers environmentally responsible solutions 
like DynaGreen™ and Rapido. Safety remains paramount, reduce 
manual handling, enhance ergonomics, and protect operators.
Continuous & Incremental Improvement
Innovation at Tega is both transformative and incremental. Guided 
by customer needs, we refine designs through rapid testing and 
field validation, consistently improving throughput, wear life, and 
maintainability.
Collaborations & Partnerships
We actively collaborate with universities, research institutions, and 
partner globally with both suppliers and end-users. Joint ventures 
and partnerships expand our capabilities, infuse diverse expertise, 
and accelerate the development of future-ready solutions.
Research and Development
At Tega, Research & Development is central to our mission 
of delivering high-performance, safe, and sustainable solutions 
for the mining and industrial sectors. Our R&D efforts span 
five key areas—advanced materials, digitalization, sustainability, 
continuous improvement, and collaborations—each reinforcing 
our commitment to long-term value creation.
48
49
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Country 
Commissioning/
Acquisition 
Production Capabilities
Chile 
2011
Mill liners, Trommels, Chute 
liners, Screens, Pipe and 
pipe repair and spools
South Africa 
2006
Mill liners (except 
DynaPrime®), Spillex®, 
Screen Panel, Chute liners
Australia 
2010
Chute liners and Trommels
Country 
Commissioning/
Acquisition 
Production Capabilities
Dahej, 
Gujarat
2013
Mill liner, wear products, 
screens and trommels
Kolkata 
(Samali), 
West Bengal
1985
Mill liners, Wear products, 
Hydrocyclones, Screens, 
Trommels & Conveyor 
products
Kalyani, West 
Bengal 
1978
Mill liners (except 
DynaPrime®), Conveyor 
products, Chute liners & 
pump liners, Hydrocyclones 
International Manufacturing Operations 
Domestic Manufacturing Operations 
Location
Production Capabilities 
Vadodara, Gujarat 
Crushers, vibrating screens, 
feeders and other material 
handling equipment
Bangalore, Karnataka 
Thickener, pumps, filter press, 
floatation cells, sand washing plant
Asansol, West Bengal 
Vibrating screens, feeders, ball 
mills, crushers and job shops
Kumardubi, Jharkhand 
Mills, crushers, screen, feeders and 
job shops
Domestic Manufacturing Operations (TMML)
Manufacturing
Quality Assurance And Quality Control 
Tega Industries Limited is committed to maintaining the highest 
standards of quality across every stage of its production process. 
The Company has progressively reduced its reliance on outsourced 
components, minimising vendor dependency and reinforcing its 
commitment to in-house excellence. Every Tega product undergoes 
rigorous, multi-stage testing to meet stringent quality benchmarks 
and is meticulously reviewed to ensure performance, durability, 
and consistency before deployment.
Statutory Disclosures: Human 
Resources Building a Compliant 
and 
Transparent 
Workforce 
Ecosystem
People First, Future Ready: Advancing 
Our HR Story in FY 2024–25
At Tega, our story of people empowerment entered its next 
chapter this year. With every passing year, we have moved a step 
closer to becoming a workplace where individuals grow with 
purpose, leaders emerge from within, and every employee feels 
a part of something larger.  FY 2024–25 was no different, marking 
the year by capability building, deeper engagement, inclusive hiring, 
and a renewed focus on future readiness.
Focused Growth with Diversity
In FY 2024–25, Tega Industries Limited continued to uphold 
its statutory obligations in human resource practices, with 
a sharp focus on transparency, compliance, and responsible 
workforce management.
The total number of new hires during the financial year stood 
at 151,  of which 25 were female employees. Among the total 
hires, 122 were for white-collar roles, highlighting our continued 
investment in building a strong professional and managerial 
talent pipeline. These figures reflect our sustained commitment 
to improving workforce diversity in line with our corporate 
governance and ESG goals.
Commitment to Legal and Ethical 
Standards
In line with regulatory reporting expectations,  the company 
ensured continued compliance in areas such as employee welfare, 
benefits administration, and disclosures related to employee 
remuneration and statutory liabilities. Relevant data was audited 
and disclosed in alignment with applicable labour laws, ensuring that 
our HR practices remain transparent, accountable, and compliant.
Strong Governance through Statutory 
Diligence
Collectively, these statutory HR measures reinforce Tega’s 
commitment to ethical employment practices and strong 
ISO 9001, 14001, 45001 and 
SA 8000 certified plants
Certifications
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Equipment Management Services
Tega provides end-to-end product lifecycle management with 
smart solutions offering predictive maintenance by continuously 
monitoring equipment health and performance, allowing issues to 
be identified before they cause downtime. This capability supports 
timely part replacements, reduces unplanned shutdowns, and 
extends asset life. 
Acquisitions and Alliances
Decades of partnerships have expanded technology access, 
markets, and efficiency reinforcing Tega’s reputation as a trusted 
industry leader.  These alliances enable Tega to offer comprehensive 
solutions in an increasingly competitive environment. Our 
geographically diverse alliances emerged as a formidable force 
in the industry.
Market Potential and Opportunities
With rising demand for high-performance mineral processing 
consumables driven by sector growth and new ore deposits, 
Tega is investing in digital and AI-powered solutions to maximise 
operational efficiency.
Market Potential
Declining ore grades, uneven sector growth, and rising demand for 
larger equipment and high-performance consumables are creating 
strong opportunities for Tega to capture value.
Innovation & Sustainability
Innovation remains core, with DynaPrime®, Rapido, sensor-based 
technologies, and sustainable initiatives such as product recycling in 
active development.
Rising Copper Demand
The clean energy transition is boosting copper demand. Tega is 
expanding manufacturing in key copper-producing regions to localise 
production, improve supply chain efficiency, and cut lead times. 
Advanced composite liner technologies provide superior corrosion 
resistance in sulphide-rich environments, enhancing equipment life 
and performance—reinforcing Tega’s position as a solution-driven 
partner in sustainable mineral processing.
governance, forming a stable foundation for broader workforce 
development efforts.
Strategic Advantages 
Capacity Expansion
A new plant in Chile, operational by FY 2026-27, will significantly 
boost capacity, serving the Latin American market—including 
Brazil, Chile, Peru, and Argentina—strengthening Tega’s presence 
in a key mining region.
Innovation-led Approach
Leveraging industry expertise, Tega integrates Industry 4.0 
across manufacturing units worldwide. Combining advanced 
technologies with sustainable practices, its innovation-driven 
portfolio meets diverse customer needs in the mining and mineral 
beneficiation sector.
Global Leader in Mill & Wear Liners
As one of the world’s largest suppliers, Tega optimises grinding 
efficiency and reduces downtime through advanced mill and wear 
liner solutions. Continual innovation in design and materials ensures 
superior performance and cost savings for customers. It also leads 
in customised transfer point solutions and wear consumables for 
mineral beneficiation.
Strong Research & Development
R&D efforts are focussed on India and Chile to develop smart 
IT-enabled products and ESG-focused solutions, and recycling 
systems for a circular economy. New industrial implementations 
are pursued through collaborations with technical institutes and 
eminent researchers to create durable, repairable, and recyclable 
components—reducing waste and advancing sustainability.
Global Manufacturing Footprint
Manufacturing units near major copper and gold mining hubs 
in Chile, South Africa, and Australia unlock significant cost and 
logistical efficiencies for customers. 
50
51
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Risk Management 
Type of risk 
Definition of risk 
Mitigation procedure 
Health & safety risk
Non-adherence to safety norms might 
result in increased near-miss incidents, 
deaths and poor safety score in the National 
Safety Register, which in turn might result 
in loss of business and reputation due to 
unfavourable safety score.
The Company ensures full compliance with applicable local 
and international laws, regulations, and standards, with a 
strong focus on employee protection. A well-defined safety 
governance structure is in place at the Group level and at the 
Plant level. Periodic internal and external safety audits are being 
carried out to ensure effective implementation, compliance 
and continuous improvement driven through actionable audit 
findings. The Company has also initiated safety drives under 
Total Quality Management (TQM) for cultural transformation
Operational risk
Capacity 
constraints, 
underutilization 
of plant capacity and absence of on-site 
emergency plan against natural calamities/
man-made disasters pose a risk to timely 
operations, potentially causing delays in 
production and may lead to shutdowns, 
customer 
dissatisfaction 
and 
financial 
losses. Further, product failure can result 
in safety hazards, loss of market share and 
reputational damage.
The Company keeps adding additional capacity upon reaching 
agreed percentage of plant utilisation and considering the future 
business growth opportunities. The manufacturing footprint is also 
geographically diversified with strategic excess capacity maintained 
to ensure continuity during localised disruptions and site-specific 
disaster recovery, as well as business continuity plans are in place, 
supported by robust inventory management, power backup systems 
(solar power) and standard operating procedures.  Additionally, 
extra capacity is maintained to avoid lost opportunities and ensure 
Service Level Agreement (SLA) compliance. Furthermore, product 
quality issues are addressed by enhancing manufacturing processes, 
integrating digital and automated controls and implementing a 
robust measurement and analysis system. Comprehensive global 
insurance programs are in place to minimise exposure.
Financial risk
Rising inflation may increase interest rates, 
affecting the costs of funds and overall 
profitability. Further, inadequate insurance 
may impact risk recovery and market 
fluctuations and economic downturns may 
impact the competitiveness of raised capital.
This risk is being managed through continuous monitoring of 
net working capital to reduce reliance on external funding. By 
optimising working capital utilisation, the Company minimises 
exposure to rising interest costs. Further, adequate insurance 
coverage has been secured at the group level to further 
mitigate potential risks. The Company also has a credit rating 
by Crisil (short-term rating is A1+ and long-term rating is 
AA-/Stable). In addition, the Company has implemented a 
diversified investment strategy, actively monitors market 
trends, and has established contingency funds to mitigate the 
impact of market fluctuations and economic downturns.
Commodity risk
Volatility in input prices poses challenges, 
especially if hedging strategies are not 
in place. Geopolitical developments and 
market changes may impact raw material 
availability, leading to higher costs and cash 
outflows, affecting working capital.
As a supplier of critical spares, the Company has generally 
been able to pass on input cost increases to end customers, 
with a lag of 1–2 quarters. Monthly input to the offer 
department has also been initiated for dynamic pricing, helping 
reduce lag and margin erosion. Furthermore, the Company 
has also diversified suppliers and sourcing regions to reduce 
dependency on any single country or market.
Competitor risk
With increased competition, it can get 
difficult for the Company to maintain its 
position, profitability and growth.
Since its establishment in 1976, the Company has built 
a strong brand recall. With a customer base spanning 92+ 
countries, the Company holds the position of second-largest 
producer of polymer-based mill liners in the global market. 
Additionally, the Company makes significant investments to 
cater to varied market needs, gaining a significant competitive 
advantage over peers
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Type of risk 
Definition of risk 
Mitigation procedure 
Technology risk
The Company’s manufacturing potential 
and performance could be restricted due 
to technology obsolescence. Technology 
disruptions, hardware failures and software 
glitches can hinder operations, affect decision-
making and affect customer trust. Further, gaps 
in cybersecurity strategy increase exposure 
to data breaches, system vulnerabilities, and 
unauthorised access risks, followed by financial 
loss due to cyber attacks.
The Company has always embraced advanced technology to 
maintain its leadership position in the market. Furthermore, 
the Company has a robust cybersecurity strategy in place 
to minimise downtime and reduce technological failures. 
Cybersecurity Policy has also been updated, and training is 
being scheduled through the LMS (Learning Management 
System) Platform. Additionally, the Company is maintaining 
cyber risk insurance to cover loss arising out of security breach 
and/or privacy breach, including E-theft, E-communications, 
E-threat and E-vandalism.
Human resource 
risk
Employees are one of the most crucial pillars 
upon which a company is built. The inability 
to hire and retain talent can therefore 
prevent the Company’s growth and success. 
Further, a lack of effective execution of the 
Succession plan may lead to leadership 
gaps, impacting business continuity, talent 
retention and long-term organisational 
growth. Failure to manage diversity and 
inclusion also poses reputational risks, 
impacting stakeholders’ perceptions.
As of March 31, 2025, the Company’s global workforce 
consisted of over 2200 result-driven employees. The 
Company takes proactive steps to retain valuable talent, foster 
a holistic work environment and ensure overall employee 
wellbeing. Furthermore, the execution of a succession plan 
for identifying and developing employees with potential to 
fill key leadership positions in the Company is in place. The 
Company is also actively hiring diverse candidates at all levels.
Geographic risk
The 
Company 
is 
prone 
to 
varied 
macroeconomic challenges, including excess 
reliance on certain geographies, fluctuations in 
local demand, regulatory changes, terrorism, 
war, political instability or natural disasters in 
these areas. These could disrupt operations or 
negatively impact revenue streams.
The Company’s operations spread across India, South 
America, North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, the Middle 
East and Africa constituting a global client base. It has also 
established global and domestic sales offices close to the 
major clientele bases and mining sites. This reduces reliance 
on any single geography.  Additionally, the Company is working 
closely with the logistics partners and insurers to understand 
the implications and minimise the impact on the operations.
Compliance risk
Non-compliance with regulatory norms can 
cause the Company to incur penalties and 
legal complications. This could also tarnish 
the Company’s image.
The Company ensures timely compliance with the statutory 
and regulatory permits. Additionally, the Company remains 
abreast of the latest regulatory norms, and a robust compliance 
risk management ensures due diligence. Audits are also being 
conducted at regular intervals to identify the gap and fix the same.
Supply chain risk
The Company uses third-party logistics and 
external support systems for delivering its 
raw materials and finished products. Frequent 
supply chain disruptions owing to inadequate 
vendor management, inefficient manufacturing 
infrastructure leading to high lead time in the 
delivery of products and rising ocean freight 
costs can jeopardise the reliability of the 
products and impact brand value.
Tega has undertaken proper measures to recalibrate these 
risks by empanelling more vendors and implementing product-
based strategic manufacturing to categorise and allocate 
products to specific plants, thereby improving efficiency and 
reducing delivery time. Currently, there is sufficient availability 
at the ports, and the freight rates have also come down 
significantly.
Changing consumer 
preference risk
In the ever-changing dynamic market, 
consumer aspirations are rapidly evolving. 
Therefore, it is essential to cater to varied 
consumer needs to continue to hold a firm 
foothold on the market.
The Company is committed to identifying and responding to 
consumer preference shifts. As a result, Tega has diversified its 
product line and conducts ongoing customer trend analysis to 
surpass customer expectations. Developments in the market 
and the ongoing operating parameters are captured and 
discussed continually.
52
53
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Type of risk 
Definition of risk 
Mitigation procedure 
Community risk
Non-cordial/inharmonious 
relations 
with trade unions and local bodies affect 
operational continuity and stakeholders’ 
trust.
The Company maintains transparent relations with local bodies 
and trade unions, fostering a positive environment through the 
timely payment of wages and subcontracting jobs. In addition, 
the Company is taking up development activities related to 
education and health care through its CSR initiatives.
Intellectual 
property 
infringement risk
The risk of patent infringement poses 
challenges in tracking global competition, 
incurring legal costs for defence, and the 
potential loss of sales due to misuse by 
others.
The Company actively reinforces its intellectual property rights 
by regularly updating the market on its patent ownership and 
maintaining close vigilance at customer sites to identify potential 
risks. IPR ownership is formally communicated through letters 
issued alongside commercial offers. In instances of suspected 
infringement, the Company takes prompt action by issuing 
cease and desist notices to the relevant parties. Furthermore, 
customers are informed of the legal implications of purchasing 
patented technology from unauthorised sources.
Project execution 
risk
Inadequate project management experience 
poses a risk of delayed execution and 
increased costs.
The Company has onboarded project managers and expanded 
hiring across key project functions, including Finance, 
Procurement, Civil Construction, and Project Electricals. To 
ensure project efficiency and cost control, several quality 
assurance models have been implemented, including dual-
level cross-checks, regular design reviews, vendor validation, 
structured change management, and ongoing engineer 
training. These measures are aimed at minimising errors and 
controlling cost overruns during the construction phase.
Internal Control Systems and 
Adequacy 
Tega’s internal control and risk management system is firmly 
anchored in the principles laid out in its corporate governance 
code. It serves as a cornerstone of the Company’s organizational 
structure, enabling coordinated efforts across various teams and 
functions. The Board of Directors plays a central role by offering 
strategic oversight, guiding executive leadership, and supporting 
committee operations. The Control and Risk Committee, along 
with the audit head, executes their duties under the supervision of 
Board-appointed Statutory Auditors.
Cautionary Statement 
The Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) section might 
include statements about the future, as outlined under applicable 
securities laws. These statements reflect the Company’s plans, 
predictions and expectations about what could happen. However, 
there is no guarantee that these will turn out as expected, as actual 
results may vary significantly due to factors outside the Company’s 
control. The Company is not obliged to update or revise any 
forward-looking statements based on subsequent developments. 
Acronym Glossary  
GDP:	
Gross Domestic Product 
GVA:	
Gross Value Added 
ECB:	
European Central Bank 
ESG:	
Environmental, Social, and Governance 
ETF:	
Exchange-traded Fund 
ICSG:	
International Copper Study Group 
MENA:	 Middle East and North Africa 
USGS:	
United States Geological Survey
DIRECTORS' REPORT
Dear Members,
Your Directors have the pleasure of presenting the 49th Annual Report together with the Audited Financial Statements of your Company 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
Financial Snapshot
(H in Million)
Particulars
Consolidated
Standalone
Year ended
 March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended
 March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Total Income
16,818.05
15,149.19
9,507.40
7,658.20
Total Expenses
14,270.78
12,723.78
7,202.83
6,020.42
Profit before share of net profit of Joint Venture 
accounted for using equity method and tax
2,547.27
2,425.41
-
-
Share of net profit of Joint Venture accounted for 
using equity method
44.71
44.32
-
-
Profit Before Tax
2,591.98
2,469.73
2,304.57
1,637.78
Total Tax
590.78
531.16
545.33
372.77
Profit After Tax
2,001.20
1,938.57
1,759.24
1,265.01
Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax)
180.60
(382.99)
(1.23)
7.35
Total Comprehensive Income
2,181.80
1,555.58
1,758.01
1,272.36
Basic Earnings Per Share 
30.08
29.17
26.44
19.04
Results of Operations and the 
State of Company’s Affairs
Your Company operates in two segments Consumables and 
Equipments, serving the global mineral beneficiation, mining and 
bulk solids handling industry.
Tega Industries Limited is a leading manufacturer and distributor of 
specialized ‘critical to operate’ consumable products for the global 
mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk solids handling industry, 
based on sales. Your Company offers comprehensive solutions to 
marquee global clients in the mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk 
solids handling industry, through its wide product portfolio. Tega 
McNally Minerals Limited (TMML), a 100% wholly owned subsidiary 
of your Company, operates as an Original Equipment Manufacturer 
(OEM). TMML offers comprehensive solutions encompassing the 
manufacturing and marketing of equipment crucial for crushing, 
screening, grinding, material handling and mineral processing. 
With a robust portfolio featuring 40 equipment types, TMML 
emerges as a key player in the crushing and beneficiation process 
within the industry.
During the year under review, your Company demonstrated steady 
progress, strengthening its position as a key Indian manufacturer of 
high-quality consumables for the global mining industry. We have 
witnessed robust sales growth across all regions, reflecting the 
effectiveness of our strategies and the value we provide for our 
customers. Despite ongoing geopolitical and economic volatility 
– the Russia Ukraine, the Israel Hamas wars along with the wave 
of tariffs and protectionist measures led by the US, leading to a 
disruption in the global trade flow, your Company maintained a 
steady operational performance, driven by strategic export growth 
and continued focus on innovation as well as customer satisfaction. 
A significant portion of our products and solutions are customized 
for the gold and copper mines, both have a robust demand. Gold 
being a safe-haven asset and a portfolio diversifier. Copper’s 
natural properties, from its durability to high conductivity, make 
it the material of choice for the green transition contributing to 
solutions for modern climate challenges. Our customers include 
the top Global Mines and we have a strong order book of H10,292 
million as on March 31, 2025, out of which, executable orders are 
around 60%, within one year. Our association with Europe’s largest 
copper mine, for the supply, installation and management of Tega’s 
products for the mineral processing plant is progressing as per 
our expectations.
We acquired TMML in early 2023, it has now been fully integrated 
with your Company and is geared up to meet established goals. The 
efforts made over the last two years have started yielding results. 
TMML successfully commissioned operations at the prestigious 
project of Hutti Gold Mine and was awarded a contract as part 
of a consortium, from NMDC, India's largest iron ore producer, 
for a new 7 MTPA iron ore screening and beneficiation plant. The 
contract, which includes design, engineering, manufacture, supply, 
erection, testing, and commissioning on a turnkey basis, is valued 
at approximately H8,716 million (inclusive of taxes). TMML's share 
in the contract is H1,199 million (inclusive of taxes). The group 
synergies and focused approach has helped TMML to increase the 
EBITDA margins, profitability and gain confidence from stakeholders 
including employees, bankers,  vendors, and customers.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
The Financial Year 2024-25 has been significant for your 
Company, marked by record total revenues of approximately 
H16,818.05 Million and an EBITDA of around H3,829.63 Million. 
Despite navigating a dynamic operating environment, your 
Company delivered exceptional results, showcasing resilience 
and adaptability. The Consumables business saw a notable growth 
of 10.8% over the previous year, reaching revenues of H14,301 
Million, while the Equipment business achieved revenues of 
H2,157 Million, representing a growth of 4.6 % over FY 2023-24 
year on year basis. Although supply chain challenges persisted, 
your Company proactively managed them, albeit with some 
impact on transportation delays and inventory. Without these 
challenges, your Company revenues could have been even 
higher, showcasing your Company potential for further growth. 
Your Company's commitment to addressing supply chain issues 
and closely monitoring market movements underscores its 
dedication to supporting customers. Your Company’s growth 
reflects its positive momentum and confidence as reposed by 
its investor. Overall, your Company has not only demonstrated 
resilience but also positioned itself for continued success in the 
upcoming financial year.
Your Company’s total consolidated income was H16,818.05 Million 
from H15.149.19 Million last year, marking a significant increase. The 
profit before tax was H2,591.98 Million compared to H2,469.73 
Million in the previous year. After taxes, our net profit amounted 
to H2,001.20 Million, up from H1,938.57 Million last year, with a 
slight variation of H 62.63 Million this year. Our total assets under 
management have also grown, reaching H20,952.02 Million from 
H 18,901.39 Million last year. On our standalone basis, total income 
stood at H 9,507.40 Million, up from H7,658.20 Million last year. The 
profit before tax increased to H2,304.57 Million from H1,637.78 
Million and after taxes, the net profit increased to H1,759.24 
Million from H1,265.01 Million last year. The total assets under 
management also grew to H15,558.65 Million from H14,543.67 
Million last year. These numbers show your Company's strong 
financial performance and ability to seize growth opportunities.
The Financial Statements of your Company have been prepared 
in accordance with the Ind AS and the relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) and rules 
made therein, as applicable, Regulation 33, 34 and 48 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015’). Accounting policies have been consistently 
applied except where a newly issued accounting standard if initially 
adopted or a revision to an existing accounting standard requires 
a change in the accounting policy hitherto in use. Your Company 
discloses standalone and consolidated Unaudited Financial Results on a 
quarterly basis, which are subjected to Limited Review and standalone 
and consolidated Audited Financial Results on an annual basis.
Dividend and its Distribution 
Policy
The Board of Directors have recommended a final dividend of 
H2 (Rupees Two) per equity share i.e., 20% on the Equity Shares 
of the Company of the face value of H10 (Rupees Ten) each for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, subject to approval of 
members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting and shall be 
subject to deduction of income tax at source.
In accordance with Regulation 43A of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
2015, a Dividend Distribution Policy has been adopted by your 
Company, covering, inter alia, the parameters for the declaration 
of dividend, utilisation of retained earnings, the procedure for 
dividend declaration, etc. it was last reviewed and amended on May 
15, 2025. The Policy is available on the website of your Company 
at the following web-link: https://www.tegaindustries.com/images/
articles/pdf/Dividend_Distribution_Policy.pdf
The dividend payout for the year under review is in accordance 
with your Company’s policy to pay sustainable dividends linked to 
the long-term growth objectives of your Company to be met by 
internal cash accruals. Your Company’s strong performance on the 
back of meticulous execution over the years, as reflected in the 
combination of high growth and profitability, has led to building a 
strong, debt-free and liquid Balance Sheet. Our focus is on ensuring 
a sustainable and profitable financial position. We also understand 
that our stakeholders expect us to deliver long-term growth riding 
on a solid strategy and prudent business decisions.
Operations 
Your Company operates in ten cutting edge manufacturing plants 
across the world, with seven located in India and three strategically 
placed in major mining locations including Chile, South Africa and 
Australia. Your Company’s sales and distribution network spans 
over 92 countries.
Your Company has adopted Digital Platforms for its various 
processes across Functions. Industry 4.0 by leveraging digital 
Technology for automated Real Time Monitoring & Control of 
Processes ensuring Repeatable & Robust Product Quality. Your 
Company has invested in a Digital Management Information 
System that has enhanced a granular understanding of our business 
and prompted data-based Decision making. This has strengthened 
our Operations (Procurement & Manufacturing), Sales, Human 
Resource and Costing. Industrial Relations at all units in India as 
well as all the other units in different geographies continued to be 
satisfactory during the year under review.
54
55
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Focusing on leading environmental, social and governance practices 
as a core part of your Company’s business, sustainability and 
safety have been integrated into the business at all levels of your 
Company through policies, standards, strategies and business plans. 
As your Company is moving towards net zero goals, technologies 
and products are helping customers on their own sustainability 
journey by enabling significant reductions in power consumption 
as well as reduction of their carbon footprint.
Human Resources
Your Company is committed to establishing itself as an employer 
of choice by fostering a workplace where employees are 
motivated, engaged and aligned with the organization’s goals. 
The focus remains on creating an environment that enables 
individuals to thrive, achieve their potential and contribute 
meaningfully—while ensuring they do so with a sense of fulfilment 
and purpose. With a strong emphasis on breaking barriers and 
promoting equitable opportunities, your Company continues to 
prioritize Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI). This commitment is 
reflected in multiple initiatives carried out during the year under 
review. To support sustained organizational growth and enhance 
internal capability, programs were conducted aiming at nurturing 
leadership and building system resilience. Additionally, significant 
progress was made in laying the foundation for continuous learning 
through Learning Management System (LMS), designed to provide 
structured, ongoing development opportunities for all employees. 
Further, the organization undertook comprehensive efforts to 
raise awareness around DEI. This included workshops on gender 
sensitization, multiple training sessions on the Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment (POSH) and the launch of an E-module on 
POSH to ensure widespread understanding as well as compliance. 
These steps underscore your Company’s dedication to fostering a 
respectful, inclusive and informed workplace culture.
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
At Tega Industries, ‘Partnerships In PracticeTM’ embodies our 
commitment to partner responsibly with all relevant stakeholders 
throughout the value chain for creating a better and sustainable 
future. We think that any company’s growth strategy should be 
illuminated by the Triple Bottom Line, which speaks of economic, 
social and environmental sustainability. While recognizing 
the importance of Environment Social Governance (ESG) 
stewardship as fundamental to our mission, we are striving to 
implement international benchmarks and enhance our intra-
company ESG initiatives & practices. Our commitment extends to 
improving workforce diversity, equity, inclusion, health, safety and 
community well-being.
We practice inclusive growth, where we make sure that our 
progress is reflected in both our internal and external stakeholders’ 
wellbeing as well as the environment, on which we depend for 
all our natural resources. Through our customized innovative 
engineering solutions, we are striving to add value to the processes 
of clients in multiple ways that leads us to a greener future and a 
greener Earth. Your Company is one of the top 500 listed entities 
and accordingly pursuant to Regulation 34(2) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015 it has presented its Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2024-25, in the 
prescribed format and the same forms an integral part of this 
report as Annexure - I.
Particulars of Conservation of 
Energy, Technology Absorption, 
Foreign Exchange Earnings and 
Outflow
The particulars relating to the conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as required 
under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act are given in Annexure – II 
attached hereto and forms part of this Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee has 
formulated and recommended to the Board a Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy), which has been approved by 
the Board. The Policy outlines the activities undertaken by your 
Company in accordance with Schedule VII of the Act and is 
available on the Company’s website at: https://www.tegaindustries.
com/investors/policies/corporate_social_responsibility_policy.pdf.
Your Company continues to demonstrate its commitment to 
the community by dedicating resources toward impactful social 
development initiatives. The CSR Committee of your Company has 
formulated a CSR Policy which identifies focus areas like education, 
health, protection of national heritage, rural transformation, 
environmental sustainability and other activities included in 
Schedule VII of the Act. 
During the year under review, your Company continued its 
commitment to social development through a focused and 
outcome-driven CSR strategy. Education remained central to your 
Company’s CSR efforts, with several projects focused on upgrading 
school infrastructure including classrooms, sanitation facilities 
and digital learning tools. Significant projects such as Disha India 
Community School in Haryana and Swapnopuron Shiksha Niketan 
in the Sundarbans, supported the expansion of educational spaces 
in remote areas, helping improve access to quality education, 
reduce dropout rates.
Besides promoting education, your Company also strengthened 
rural livelihoods by empowering women and advancing 
environmental sustainability through innovative, community 
led initiatives. In Kalyani, a Self-Help Group (SHG) was formed 
and trained, to convert invasive water hyacinth into eco-friendly 
products like diaries, pen stands, utility boxes, handmade paper 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
etc. This initiative created an alternative livelihood to rural 
women and promoted restoration of local water bodies. It also 
received recognition from local authorities and was showcased at 
district-level events. Plantation of more than 6,400 fruit trees and 
rejuvenation of more than 30 ponds was completed at ecologically 
sensitive areas of Sundarbans contributing to groundwater 
recharge, increased biodiversity and climate change mitigation.
Additionally, your Company contributed to special projects such 
as promoting classical dance like Kathak, supporting inclusive 
education and care for neurodiverse children as well as contributing 
to the welfare of army personnel and their families.
Your company remains committed to creating a long-term, inclusive 
impact by integrating its business values with broader community 
progress and national development priorities.
A report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) during the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 135 of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 is given as Annexure - III 
to this Report.
Risk Management 
Risk Management at your Company forms an integral part of 
Management focus. The Risk Management Policy of the Company, 
which is approved by the Risk Management Committee of 
the Board (‘RMC’) and the Board of Directors, provides the 
framework of Enterprise Risk Management (‘ERM’) by describing 
mechanisms for the proactive identification as well as prioritization 
of risks based on the scanning of the external environment. The 
ERM framework identifies, evaluates, manages and reports risks 
arising from the Company’s operations and exogenous factors. The 
Company has deployed both bottom-up and top-down approaches 
to drive enterprise-wide Risk Management. The Leadership Team 
as well as the RMC identifies and assesses long-term, strategic 
and macro risks for the Company. The RMC oversees the Risk 
Management process in the Company. The RMC is chaired by an 
Independent Director. 
Internal Control Systems 
As per Section 134(5)(e) of the Act, the Directors have an overall 
responsibility for ensuring that your Company has implemented a 
robust system and framework of Internal Financial Controls. Your 
Company has an Internal Financial Controls (‘IFC’) framework, 
commensurate with the size, scale and complexity of your 
Company’s operations. The Board of Directors of your Company 
is responsible for ensuring that Internal Financial Controls (‘IFC’) 
have been laid down by your Company and that such controls 
are adequate as well as operating effectively. The internal control 
framework has been designed to provide reasonable assurance 
with respect to recording and providing reliable financial as 
well as operational information, complying with applicable laws, 
safeguarding assets from unauthorized use, executing transactions 
with proper authorization and ensuring compliance with 
corporate policies. 
Your Company has devised appropriate systems and framework 
including proper delegation of authority, policies and procedures, 
effective IT systems aligned to business requirements, risk 
based Internal Audits, Risk Management framework and Whistle 
Blower mechanism. Your Company has already developed and 
implemented a framework for ensuring internal controls over 
financial reporting. The framework includes entity level policies, 
process and operating level controls & policies. The entity level 
policies include anti-fraud policies (like Code of Conduct, Insider 
Trading Policy and Whistle Blower Policy) inter alia others. Your 
Company has also prepared Risk Control Matrix (RCM) for each of 
its key processes, like, procure to pay, order to cash, hire to retire, 
treasury, fixed assets, inventory, manufacturing operations, etc. Your 
Company periodically reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of 
its risk management system to ensure the effectiveness as well 
as proactive action by the RCM considering the rapidly changing 
business environment. During the year, your Company remained 
vigilant about rapid shifts in industry requirements, dynamic geo-
political environment, increasing impacts of climate change and 
swiftly evolving regulatory landscape, thereby integrating risk 
identification and mitigation, which further enabled to test the 
controls. We are happy to state that no reportable significant 
deficiency / material weakness was observed.
The Internal Audit team develops an Annual Audit Plan based on 
the risk profile of the business activities. The Internal Audit plan is 
approved by the Audit Committee, which also reviews compliance 
to the plan. The Internal Audit team monitors and evaluates the 
efficacy and adequacy of internal control systems in the Company, 
its compliance with operating systems, accounting procedures 
and policies at all locations of the Company. Based on the report 
of internal audit function, process owners undertake corrective 
action(s) in their respective area(s) and thereby strengthen the 
controls. Significant audit observations and corrective action(s) 
thereon are presented to the Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee reviews the reports submitted by the Internal Auditors 
on a quarterly basis.
Consolidated Financial Statements
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries for FY 2024-25 are prepared in compliance with 
the applicable provisions of the Act and as stipulated under 
Regulation 33 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 as well as in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards notified under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. The 
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements together with the 
Auditor’s Report thereon forms part of this Report. Pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 136 of the Act, the Financial Statements 
of the Company, Consolidated Financial Statements along with 
relevant documents and separate annual accounts in respect of 
subsidiaries are available on the website of the Company.
56
57
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Share Capital and Changes in 
Capital Structure
As on March 31, 2025, the total paid up Equity share capital of 
your Company is H 665.35 Million divided into 6,65,35,492 equity 
shares of H 10/- each. The total shareholding of the Promoter(s) of 
your Company is 74.80% and none of the Promoters/ Promoter 
Group shareholding is under pledge. Further, in compliance with 
Regulation 31(2) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the entire 
shareholding of promoter(s) is in dematerialized form. 
As on March 31, 2025, the total Authorized Share Capital of your 
Company is H 1,050 Million (Rupees One Thousand Fifty Million) 
divided into 7,00,00,000 (Seven Crore) equity shares of H 10/- 
(Rupees Ten) each and 3,50,00,000 (Three Crore Fifty Lakh) 
preference shares of H 10/- (Rupees Ten) each. 
During the year under review, the Board of Directors at their meeting 
held on February 28, 2025, accorded their approval to re-classify 
the Authorised Share Capital of the Company by way of cancelling 
unissued Authorized Preference Share Capital and increasing the 
Authorized Equity Share Capital by adding 3,50,00,000 (Three 
Crore Fifty Lakh) equity shares (equivalent to cancelled unissued 
Authorized Preference Shares) of the face value of H 10/- (Rupees 
Ten) each amounting to H 350 Million (Rupees Three Hundred Fifty 
Million). Post cancellation of the unissued Authorized Preference 
Share Capital and increase in the equivalent equity shares of the 
Company, the Authorised Share Capital of the Company will be 
H 1,050 Million (Rupees One Thousand Fifty Million) divided into 
10,50,00,000 (Ten Crore Fifty Lakh) equity shares of H 10/- (Rupees 
Ten) each. The re-classification of the Authorised Share capital and 
consequent alteration in the Capital Clause of Memorandum of 
Association of the Company was approved by the Members of your 
Company through Postal Ballot on April 02,2025. 
Transfer to General Reserves 
Your Directors do not propose to transfer any amounts to the 
general reserves of your Company, instead they have recommended 
to retain the entire amount of profits for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025, in the profit and loss account.
Your Company did not have any amounts due or outstanding as at 
the Balance Sheet date to be credited to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund. 
Employee Stock Option Scheme 
- 2011
In view of the regulatory changes with the introduction of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, the Members of your 
Company approved the amendments /modifications in the existing 
provisions of ‘Employee Stock Option Scheme-2011’ (“ESOP–
2011”) in accordance with the aforesaid regulations vide postal 
ballot dated April 03, 2022. Your Company received in-principle 
approval from the Stock Exchanges for the said scheme.
During the Financial Year 2022-23 and 2023-24, the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee of your Company has approved 
the allotment of 60,963 Equity Shares and 1,81,380 Equity Shares 
respectively to employees of your Company under ‘Employee 
Stock Option Scheme-2011’ (“ESOP–2011”) under various 
tranches. Your Company received listing and trading approval from 
the Stock Exchanges for the aforesaid shares.
The objective of ESOP-2011 is to attract, retain and motivate 
the best available talent by way of rewarding employees for their 
performance and to motivate them to participate in the growth of 
your Company, besides creating long term wealth in their hands. 
Accordingly, Options had been granted from time to time to the 
eligible employees of your Company.
Deposits
Your Company has not accepted any deposits from the public 
and consequently, there are no outstanding deposits in terms 
of the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 as on 
March 31, 2025.
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and 
Associate Companies
The Statement in Form AOC-1 containing the salient features of 
the Financial Statements of your Company’s subsidiaries and joint 
venture pursuant to the first proviso to Section 129(3) of the Act 
read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, forms 
part of the Annual Report. Further, in line with Section 129(3) of 
the Act read with the aforesaid Rules, SEBI Listing Regulations, 
2015 and in accordance with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (Ind AS Rules) read with Schedule III to the 
Act, Consolidated Financial Statements prepared by your Company 
includes the financial information of its subsidiary companies.
A Report on the performance and financial position of each of 
the subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
prepared by your Company as per Rule 8(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, forms part of the annual accounts of 
each of the subsidiary companies and forms part of Form AOC-
1. The said Report is not repeated here for the sake of brevity. 
Members interested in obtaining a copy of the annual accounts of 
the subsidiaries may write to the Company Secretary at the email 
id compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com.
In accordance with Section 136 of the Act, the Audited Financial 
Statements, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
related information of your Company and Audited Accounts of 
each of its subsidiaries, are available on your Company’s website 
www.tegaindustries.com.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
As on March 31, 2025, the Company had 14 (fourteen) subsidiaries 
(one in India and thirteen overseas) and 1(one) Joint Venture. There 
has been no material change in the nature of the business of the 
subsidiaries. During the year under review, Tega Industries Ghana 
Ltd, a subsidiary of Tega Holdings Pte. Limited was incorporated 
w.e.f. January 04, 2025.
Your Company has formulated a Policy for determining Material 
Subsidiaries in accordance with SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, it 
was last reviewed and amended on May 15, 2025. 
The Policy is available on your Company’s website at the following 
link: 
https://www.tegaindustries.com/images/articles/pdf/Policy_
for_Determining_Material_Subsidiaries.pdf.
Related Party Transactions
During the year under review:
a)	
all contracts / arrangements / transactions entered by your 
Company with related parties were in its ordinary course of 
business and on an arm’s length basis.
b)	
there were no material related party transactions which 
required prior approval of the Members.
c)	
your Company had not entered into any contract / 
arrangement / transaction with related parties which is 
required to be reported in Form No. AOC-2 in terms of 
Section 134(3)(h) read with Section 188 of the Act and Rule 
8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
d)	
There were no materially significant related party transactions 
which could have potential conflict with the interests of your 
Company at large.
The Policy on Related Party Transactions was last reviewed 
and amended on May 15, 2025. The Policy is available on 
your Company’s website at following web-link: https://www.
tegaindustries.com/images/articles/pdf/POLICY_ON_RELATED_
PARTY_TRANSACTIONS.pdf.
Members may refer to Note 37 of the Standalone Financial 
Statements which sets out related party disclosures pursuant 
to Ind AS.
Inter-Corporate 
Loans 
and 
Investments
Details of loans, guarantees and investments covered under the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Act are given in the notes to the 
Financial Statements.
Annual Return
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3)(a) of the 
Act, the Annual Return of your Company is available at www.
tegaindustries.com.
Credit Rating
Your Company has obtained credit ratings for the credit facilities 
availed by it and the strong ratings ascribed by the Rating 
Agencies reflect your Company’s financial discipline and prudence 
in management. 
As on the date of this report, the credit rating of the Company as 
given by CRISIL Ratings Limited is as follows:
Long Term Rating
CRISIL AA-/Stable 
Short Term Rating
CRISIL A1+
Board Meetings 
Your Company follows the practice of drawing up an annual 
calendar for Board and Committee Meetings to ensure the 
presence of maximum number of Directors in all the Meetings. 
The primary business of the Board consists of evolving strategy, 
annual business plans, review of actual performance and course 
correction and any other matter as may be deemed fit. The role 
of the Board also includes structuring, investment and business 
re-organization. Matters such as capital expenditure, recruitment 
of senior level personnel, safety and environment, HR related 
developments, compliance with status and risk management are 
also reviewed by the Board from time to time.
Your Company’s commitment to good governance practice allows 
the Board to effectively perform these functions. Your Company 
ensures that timely and relevant information is made available to 
all the Directors in order to facilitate their effective participation 
and contribution during the meetings and discussions.
7 (seven) Board Meetings were held during FY 2024-25, the 
details of which are given in the Corporate Governance Report 
attached to this Report. The maximum time gap between 
any 2 (two) consecutive meetings did not exceed 120 (one 
hundred twenty) days.
Committees of the Board
Pursuant to various requirements under the Act, and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015, the Board of Directors has constituted/
reconstituted (whenever necessitated) various committees such 
as Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
58
59
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility Committee and Risk Management Committee. 
During the year under review, there were no instances 
when the recommendations of the Committees were not 
accepted by the Board.
The details of composition, terms of reference, etc., pertaining 
to these committees are mentioned in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Further, 2 (two) Committees have been constituted by the Board of 
Directors (i) the Finance & Operations Committee for operational 
convenience in handling day-to-day banking and operations related 
matters and (ii) Sustainability Committee, to oversee and drive 
sustainability initiatives within the organization. 
Directors
During the year under review, the following changes took place in 
the constitution of the Board of Directors of the Company:
 
 
Post conclusion of the term of Mr. Syed Yaver Imam 
(DIN:00588381) as a Whole time Director on May 31, 2024, 
he was appointed as an Additional Director (Category: Non-
Executive Non-Independent) by the Board of Directors based 
on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee with effect from June 01, 2024, thereafter the 
members of the Company at the 48th Annual General 
Meeting held on August 20, 2024 accorded their approval for 
his appointment in the present designation.
 
 
Mr. Anand Sen (DIN: 00237914) was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Independent) 
by the Board of Directors based on the recommendation of 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee for a term of 5 
(five) consecutive years with effect from November 14, 2024. 
Thereafter, the members of the Company through Postal 
Ballot on January 26, 2025, approved his appointment.
 
 
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388), Chairman 
and Whole time Director of the Company, expressed his 
intention to relinquish his position as Whole time Director 
of the Company with effect from January 31, 2025. The 
Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee at its meeting 
held on December 19, 2024 approved the re-designation 
of Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka as Chairman and Non-
Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company with 
effect from February 01, 2025. Subsequently, the members 
of the Company through Postal Ballot on January 26, 2025, 
approved his re-designation. 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act, and 
the relevant Rules and your Company’s Articles of Association, 
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam (DIN:00588381) retires by rotation at the 
ensuing AGM and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
The Board of Directors of your Company recommends the re-
appointment of the above Director.
The brief resume/details relating to Director who is proposed to be 
re-appointed has been furnished in the Notice of the ensuing AGM. 
Your Company has received a declaration from each of the 
Independent Directors under Section 149(7) of the Act, and 
Regulation 25(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 that he/she 
meets the criteria of independence laid down in Section 149(6) 
of the Act, and Regulation 16(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
2015 and that he/she is not aware of any circumstance or situation, 
which exists or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or 
impact his/her ability to discharge his/her duties with an objective 
of independent judgement and without any external influence. 
With regard to integrity, expertise and experience (including the 
proficiency) of the Independent Director appointed/re-appointed, 
the Board of Directors are of the opinion that all the Independent 
Directors are persons of integrity and possess relevant expertise 
and experience and their continued association as Directors will 
be of immense benefit and in the best interest of your Company. 
All requisite declarations were presented before the Board. 
Further, the Board of Directors took on record the declaration 
and confirmation submitted by the Independent Directors under 
Regulation 25(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, after undertaking 
due assessment of the veracity of the disclosures submitted. 
Further, at the time of appointment of Independent Directors, a 
formal letter of appointment is given to the Director, inter alia 
explaining the role, duties and responsibilities of the Director. 
Disclosures w.r.t. Familiarisation programmes for Independent 
Directors are available on the link: https://www.tegaindustries.
com/images/articles/pdf/Familiarization-Programme-for-
Independent-Directors.pdf
Pursuant to Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules,  2019, effective from December 
01, 2019, the Independent Directors of your Company have 
registered themselves with the Databank maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) and their names presently 
stands included in the Databank of IICA. The Independent 
Directors have successfully qualified the Online Proficiency Self-
Assessment Test, as may be applicable.
Key Managerial Personnel
During the year under review, the following changes took place:
 
 
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam (DIN: 00588381) ceased to be a Key 
Managerial Personnel of your Company with effect from 
June 01, 2024, post conclusion of his term as a Whole time 
Director of your Company on May 31, 2024.
 
 
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388) ceased to 
be a Whole time Director post his re-designation as Non-
Executive Non-Independent Director with effect from 
February 01, 2025. He continues to be the Chairman 
of the Company. 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
In terms of the provisions of Section 2(51) and Section 203 of the 
Act, the following are the Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) of the 
Company as of March 31, 2025 –
1)	
Mr. Mehul Mohanka (DIN: 00052134) – Managing Director 
and Group CEO. 
2)	
Mr. Sharad Kumar Khaitan – Chief Financial Officer.
3)	
Ms. Manjuree Rai, Global Head – Legal & Compliance, 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer. 
Board Evaluation
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and Regulation 17 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Board has carried out the 
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees 
as well as evaluation of performance of the individual Directors. 
Further, the Independent Directors at their meeting reviewed 
the performance and role of Non-Independent Directors and the 
Board as a whole and Chairperson of your Company. The manner 
in which the evaluation has been carried out has been explained in 
the Corporate Governance Report attached to this Report.
Nomination & Remuneration 
Policy
The Board of Directors of your Company have adopted a Policy 
on Selection & Remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and other employees based on the recommendation 
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 178(3) of the Act, and Regulation 19 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations, 2015. This policy lays down the criteria for 
determining qualifications, competencies, positive attributes and 
independence for the appointment of a Director (Executive/Non-
Executive) and the criteria for determining the remuneration of the 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and other employees. 
The Policy was last reviewed and amended on December 19, 2024, 
may be accessed on the link:- https://www.tegaindustries.com/
images/articles/pdf/Nomination_and_Remuneration_Policy.pdf
Vigil Mechanism And Whistle 
Blower Policy
Your Company has devised an effective whistleblower mechanism 
enabling stakeholders, including individual employees and their 
representative bodies, to communicate their concerns about illegal 
or unethical practices freely. Your Company has also established a 
vigil mechanism for stakeholders to report concerns about any 
unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the 
Company’s Code of Conduct. 
Your Company has formulated a codified Whistle-Blower Policy 
incorporating the provisions relating to Vigil Mechanism in terms 
of Section 177 of the Act, and Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015, in order to encourage Directors and Employees 
of your Company to escalate to the level of the Audit Committee 
any issue or concerns impacting and compromising with the interest 
of your Company and its stakeholders in any way. Your Company 
is committed to adhere to highest possible standards of ethical, 
moral and legal business conduct and to open communication 
and to provide necessary safeguards for protection of employees 
from reprisals or victimisation, for whistle blowing in good faith. 
The Policy is available on the Company’s website : https://www.
tegaindustries.com/images/articles/pdf/Whistle_Blower_Policy.pdf
Further, no complaints were reported under the Vigil Mechanism 
during the year.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace
Your Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment at 
workplace and has adopted a policy viz., Policy on Prevention 
of Sexual Harassment in line with the provisions of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH Act). Your Company is also in 
compliance with the provisions of the POSH Act, with respect to 
the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee.
Your Company did not receive any complaint of sexual harassment 
during the year under review. It also has a policy on Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace, the same is available on 
the Company’s website - https://www.tegaindustries.com/images/
articles/pdf/POSH_Policy_-_Tega_Industries_Limited1.pdf. 
To 
build awareness on this subject, the Company has been conducting 
awareness sessions during induction of new employees and also 
periodically for permanent employees, third-party employees and 
contract workmen through online and in person sessions.
Particulars Of Employees And 
Related Disclosures
The disclosures required pursuant to Section 197 of the Act 
read with Rule 5 of Companies (Appointment & Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 in respect of employees 
of the Company is annexed as Annexure - IV. The statement 
containing particulars of employee remuneration as required 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act and Rule 
5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, forms part of this Report. 
In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the Annual Report is being 
sent to the Shareholders, excluding the aforesaid statement. The 
statement is open for inspection upon request by the members, 
and any member desirous of obtaining the same may write to the 
Company Secretary at  compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com
60
61
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Material 
Changes 
And Commitments
There are no material changes and commitments affecting the 
financial position of your Company between the end of the 
Financial Year, i.e. March 31, 2025 and the date of this Report.
Corporate Governance
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015, the Corporate Governance Report and the 
Certificate on the Compliance of Conditions of Corporate 
Governance forms part of the Annual Report and are given 
separately as Annexure – V.
Statutory Auditors and Their 
Audit Report
During the year under review, M/s. Price Waterhouse & Co 
Bangalore LLP, Chartered Accountants have tendered their 
resignation with effect from August 09, 2024 and M/s. Walker 
Chandiok & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 001076N/N500013) were appointed as Statutory Auditors of 
your Company to fill the casual vacancy caused by the resignation 
of M/s. Price Waterhouse & Co Bangalore LLP, Chartered 
Accountants until the conclusion of the 48th AGM.
Further, as per the provisions of Section 139 of the Act read with 
relevant rules made thereunder, on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors post obtaining 
approval from the members at the 48th AGM, M/s. Walker 
Chandiok & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 001076N/N500013) were appointed as the Statutory Auditors 
of your Company for a term of 5 (five) years, to hold office from 
the conclusion of the 48th AGM till the conclusion of 53rd AGM. 
The reports given by the Statutory Auditors, M/s. Walker 
Chandiok & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, on the Standalone 
and Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, forms part of this Annual 
Report and there are no qualification, reservation, adverse remark 
or disclaimer given by the Auditors in their Reports.
The Auditors of your Company have not reported any fraud in 
terms of the second proviso to Section 143(12) of the Act.
Cost Auditors
As per Section 148 of the Act, your Company is required to have 
the audit of its cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant in 
practice. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of your Company 
has on the recommendation of the Audit Committee on May 15, 
2025, approved the appointment of M/s. Mani & Co. as the Cost 
Auditors of your Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2026. As required under the Act, a resolution seeking ratification 
of the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors forms part 
of the Notice convening the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
for FY 2025-26.
Secretarial Auditors
Pursuant to Section 204 of the Act and Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, the Secretarial Audit was conducted by Mrs. Sweety Kapoor, 
Practising Company Secretary (Membership No. FCS 6410, 
Certificate of Practice No. 5738) holding a Peer Review Certificate 
No. 6742/2025 for the year under review. The Secretarial Audit 
Report for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, does 
not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark 
or disclaimer and the same forms part of the Annual Report 
as Annexure - VI.
As per Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 read 
with the Act and Rules made thereunder, the Board of Directors 
recommends the appointment of Mrs. Sweety Kapoor, Practicing 
Company Secretary, bearing Membership No. FCS 6410 and 
Certificate of Practice No. 5738 holding a Peer Review Certificate 
No. 6742/2025, as the Secretarial Auditor of your Company for a 
period of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing from Financial Year 
(FY) 2025-26 till FY 2029-30. An appropriate resolution seeking 
approval of the members of the Company has been included in the 
Notice convening the 49th AGM of the Company.
Compliance 
of 
Secretarial 
Standards
The Directors have devised proper systems and processes 
for complying with the requirements of applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(ICSI) and such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
Your Company has complied with the applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the ICSI on Board Meetings and 
General Meetings.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
The Board of Directors acknowledge the responsibility for 
ensuring compliance with the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) read 
with Section 134(5) of the Act and Regulation 18 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015 in the preparation of the Annual Accounts for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 and state that:
(i)	
in the preparation of the Annual Accounts for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, the applicable accounting 
standards have been followed along with proper explanation 
relating to material departures.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
(ii)	
they have selected such accounting policies and applied them 
consistently and made judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of your Company at the end of the 
Financial Year and of the profit of your Company for the year.
(iii)	 they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
your Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities.
(iv)	 they have prepared the Annual Accounts for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, on a going concern basis.
(v)	
they have laid down internal financial controls to be followed 
by your Company and that such internal financial controls 
are adequate and are operating effectively.
(vi)	 they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with 
the provisions of all applicable laws to your Company and the 
systems are adequate and operating effectively.
General Disclosures
Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required in 
respect of the following matters as there were no transactions on 
these matters during the year under review:
 
 
Issue of Equity shares with differential rights as to dividend, 
voting or otherwise.
 
 
There has been no change in the business of your Company.
 
 
There is no proceeding pending under the Insolvency and 
bankruptcy Code, 2016.
 
 
There is no instance of one-time settlement with any Banks/ 
financial institutions.
 
 
No significant or material orders were passed by the 
Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future.
Acknowledgements 
The Directors appreciate the hard work, dedication and 
commitment of all its employees including workmen at the 
plants towards the success of your Company. The Directors 
also acknowledge the support extended by the Company’s 
members and would also like to thank the financial institutions, 
banks, government authorities, customers, vendors and other 
stakeholders for their continued support and co-operation.
	
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Place: Kolkata	
Chairman
Date: May 15, 2025	
DIN: 00049388
62
63
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Part I – Details of Listed Entity
1.	 Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L25199WB1976PLC030532
2.	 Name of the Listed Entity
TEGA INDUSTRIES LIMITED
3.	 Year of incorporation
1976
4.	 Registered office address
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, Office No.807, 8th Floor, Block DP-5, Salt 
Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, Kolkata, West Bengal, 700091 IN
5.	 Corporate address
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, Office No.807, 8th Floor, Block DP-5, Salt 
Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, Kolkata, West Bengal, 700091 IN
6.	 E-mail
compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com
7.	 Telephone
+91 33 4093 9000
8.	 Website
www.tegaindustries.com
9.	 Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-2025
10.	Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
	
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)
	
BSE Limited
11.	Paid-up Capital
INR 66,53,54,920
12.	Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who     may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Manjuree Rai, 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer, 
Email id: compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com
Telephone No.: +91 33 4093 9000
13.	Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under 
this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for 
the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the 
entity and all the entities which form a part of its 
consolidated financial statements, taken together).
Standalone 
14.	Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
15.	Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
17. 	Products/services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
	
Tega Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as “TIL”) is committed to the design, development, and manufacturing of an extensive 
array of critical consumables and complementary components, as outlined in the detailed table below. TIL’s product portfolio is 
intentionally diversified, with a strategic approach that ensures no single product line accounts for more than 90% of total turnover. To 
provide greater transparency, a detailed segmentation of revenue contribution across various product categories has been included, 
thereby, highlighting the proportional impact of each segment on the company’s overall financial performance. This segmentation not 
only underscores TIL’s diverse manufacturing capabilities but also reflects the resilience and robustness of its business model, which 
is designed to maintain operational stability and adaptability in a dynamic market environment.
Part II – Products/Services
16. 	Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sl. 
No.
Description of Main 
Activity
Description of Business Activity
% Turnover 
of the entity
1.
Product Manufacturing and 
Services
 
 
Products - Plastic Products, Non-Metallic Mineral Products, Rubber 
Products, Fabricated Metal Products
 
 
Services – Installation of Products
90.85%
Section A: General Disclosure
ANNEXURE I
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC/HSN/SAC 
Code
% of total Turnover 
Contributed
1.
Products - Plastic Products, Non-Metallic Mineral Products, Rubber Products, 
Fabricated Metal Products
28,246
89.93
2.
Services – Installation of Products
3,320
0.92
Part III – Operations
18. 	Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Locations
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
3 
18 
21 
International
 -
 -
 -
	
* The international operations are carried out by the Company through its subsidiary companies and are outside the reporting boundary of this report.
19.	Markets served by the entity:
a. 	 Number of locations
Locations
Numbers
National (No. of States)
18
International (No. of Countries)
92
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
The share of export in the total turnover of TIL, when considered on a standalone basis, constitutes a substantial 86%. This significant 
contribution underscores TIL’s formidable international market presence and serves as a testament to its strategic alignment with 
global demand. Such a robust export performance not only highlights TIL’s competitive edge in navigating diverse international 
markets but also reinforces its standing as a distinguished and influential player in the mineral processing sector.  TIL’s expansive global 
footprint reflects its unwavering commitment to delivering high-quality, innovative solutions, thereby, fortifying its leadership position 
in the industry.
c.	
A brief on types of customers: 
	
TIL serves extensive and diverse clientele across a multitude of industrial sectors, encompassing, but not limited to, steel, power, 
cement, iron ore, copper, zinc, aluminium, gold, platinum, and aggregates.  At a macro level, TIL’s operations are strategically positioned 
within the pivotal domains of bulk material handling, mining, and mineral processing.  This expansive sectoral engagement highlights 
TIL’s exceptional capability to deliver highly tailor-made engineering solutions that cater to a broad spectrum of end-use industries. 
As a result, TIL reinforces its position as a crucial enabler of essential industrial infrastructure, consistently providing cutting-edge 
technologies and services that drive growth and innovation across these critical sectors. By addressing the unique requirements of 
such varied industries, TIL solidifies its role as a key player in advancing industrial development on a global scale. 
Part IV – Employees
20.	Details as at the end of financial year:
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
(B)
%(B/A)
(C)
%(C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1. 	 Permanent (D)
513
460
90
53
10
2. 	 Other than permanent (E)
33
29
88
4
12
3. 	 Total Employee (D+E)
546
489
90
57
10
WORKERS
4. 	 Permanent (F)
196
196
100.00
0
0.00
5. 	 Other than permanent (G)
716
715
99.86
1
0.14
6. 	 Total Workers (F+G)
912
911
99.89
1
0.11
64
65
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
b.	
Differently abled employees and workers:
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
(B)
%(B/A)
(C)
%(C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES 
1. 	 Permanent (D)
2
2
100
0
0
2. 	 Other than Permanent  (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3. 	 Total Differently Abled 
Employees (D+E)
2
2
100
0
0
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4. 	 Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
5. 	 Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
6. 	 Total Differently Abled 
Workers (F+G)
0
0
0
0
0
21.	Participation/inclusion/representation of women:
Particulars
Total(A)
Number and percentage of Female
(B)
%(B/A)
Board of Directors (BoDs)*
7
1
14.29
Key Management Personnel (KMPs)
3
1
33.33
	
*inclusive of independent directors
22.	Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (in %):
Particulars
FY 2024-2025
FY 2023-2024
FY 2022-2023
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
14.25
29.17
15.69
13.59
11.11
13.40
18.80
30.43
19.40
Permanent Workers
10.44
0.00
10.44
8.38
0.00
8.38
7.77
0.00
7.77
Part  V – Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (Including Joint Ventures)
23.	Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Name of the holding / subsidiary /associate 
companies / joint ventures
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility    
initiatives of the listed entity? 
(Yes/No)
Tega Industries, Inc.
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Industries Australia Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Tecnicos Ltda.
Subsidiary
99.99
No
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
Losugen Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Industries Chile SpA and its subsidiaries
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Investments South Africa (Pty) Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Industries Africa (Pty) Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega McNally Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Holdings Pte.  Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
Tega Industries Ghana Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
Joint Venture
50
No
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Part VI – CSR Details
24.	(i)	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of companies act, 2013: Yes
	
(ii)	 Turnover (in Rs.): 8950.96 Million (excludes other income)
	
(iii)	Net worth (in Rs.): 13080.10 Million
Part VII – Transparency & Disclosure Compliances
25.	Complaints/grievances on any of the principles (principles 1 to 9) under the national 
guidelines on responsible business conduct.
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
(If Yes, then provide 
web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy)
FY 2024-2025
FY 2023-2024
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the    
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year*
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
Yes
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Shareholders
Yes
1
0
NA
0
0
NA
Employees and workers
Yes
0
0
NA
2
0
NA
Customers
Yes
109
20
NA
161
35
NA
Value Chain Partners
Yes
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Other (please specify)
NA
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
	
Please refer to the weblink provided below:
	
Web link: https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/business_responsibility_&_sustainability_policy.pdf     https://www.
tegaindustries.com/investor/#policies-tab
26.	Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that 
present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with 
its financial implications, as per the following format.
Sl.
No.
Material issue identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk 
/ opportunity 
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
1.
Develop 
products 
with 
ESG 
considerations, with an emphasis on 
reducing the carbon footprint both 
at the customer’s end, as well as 
within our manufacturing facility.
Opportunity
Developing products with 
ESG considerations helps 
reduce carbon footprints 
in both manufacturing 
and at the customer’s 
end. This aligns with rising 
demand for sustainable 
solutions and evolving 
regulations, inclusive of 
matters related to carbon 
taxation. By focusing on 
energy-efficient designs 
and sustainable
Positive-
 
 
Cost Reduction 
through Efficiency
 
 
Higher Product Value 
and Pricing Power
 
 
Regulatory Compliance 
and Risk Mitigation
 
 
Long-term Profitability
 
 
Increased Revenue
 
 
Reduced 
Carbon Tax Exposure
66
67
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Sl.
No.
Material issue identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk 
/ opportunity 
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
materials, TIL can improve 
operational efficiency, 
enhance brand reputation, 
and gain a competitive 
edge, while contributing 
to global sustainability 
goals and ensuring long-
term business resilience.
 
 
Brand Loyalty & Retention
 
 
Risk Mitigation 
 
 
Competitiveness
 
 
	Business Sustainability
2.
Enhancing 
lifespan, 
optimizing 
efficiency, 
and 
improving 
flow 
dynamics of the product.
Opportunity
Identifying opportunities 
to enhance lifespan, 
optimize efficiency and 
improve flow dynamics 
is crucial for driving 
product performance and 
customer satisfaction. 
These improvements 
reduce operational costs, 
increase reliability, and 
cater to growing market 
demands, while enhancing 
scalability. Optimizing 
these aspects not only 
boosts competitiveness 
but also supports 
sustainability goals by 
minimizing waste and 
improving resource 
utilization, ultimately 
contributing to long-term 
business growth and 
value.
 Positive-
 
 
Enhanced Lifespan
 
 
Improved Flow dynamics
 
 
Cost Avoidance
3.
For preservation of environment 
and long-term sustenance, there is 
a need to integrate environmental 
education, 
while 
promoting 
entrepreneurship, 
focusing 
on 
the CSR projects having positive 
impact on social, economic and 
environmental well-being.
Opportunity
Promoting long-term 
sustainability by solving 
environmental challenges 
while fostering innovation 
(for e.g. converting 
invasive water hyacinth 
into value added 
product). This also 
asks for integration of 
capacity development 
with innovation while 
promoting environmental 
awareness, skill 
development, resulting 
in enhancement of 
livelihood, in addition 
to accrual of other 
social, economic and 
environmental benefits.
Positive:
 
 
Stimulation of 
local economic 
activity & growth
 
 
Strengthened ESG 
performance metrics 
 
 
Value chain impact
 
 
Training and 
Capacity Building
 
 
Income Generation
 
 
Job Creation
 
 
Promoting long 
term out of fence 
sustainability initiatives
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl.
No.
Material issue identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk 
/ opportunity 
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
4.
Enhancing 
Sales 
Department’s 
ESG outlook, thereby, improving 
customer interaction by sharing 
appropriate 
knowledge 
and 
imparting awareness  in respect to 
integration of ESG factors in  new 
products.
Opportunity
There is a high likelihood 
that customers will 
increasingly prioritize 
products with reasonable 
ESG considerations. 
Hence, lack of awareness 
may result in loss of 
sales opportunities. This 
could significantly impact 
competitiveness and 
brand perception on long 
term basis.
Positive-
 
 
Competitiveness
 
 
Product differentiation
 
 
Improvement in 
customer relationship 
(stickiness with customer) 
Business Sustainability
5.
Lack 
of 
continuity 
in 
respect 
to 
effective 
risk 
management 
practices, unless these are driven 
by actionable threat intelligence 
strategies, supported by  prompt 
implementation of mitigation and 
prevention strategies, could make 
Tega vulnerable to potential IT 
system failures and the ever-evolving 
cyber threat landscape.
 Opportunity
As Tega advances its 
digital transformation and 
global operations, the 
cyber threat landscape 
is evolving rapidly. 
Despite robust security 
measures, emerging 
threats with advanced 
capabilities require a 
shift from reactive to 
proactive, intelligence-
led risk management. To 
protect digital systems 
and safeguard business 
continuity, Tega must 
continuously enhance its 
cybersecurity posture, 
ensuring it remains 
resilient, adaptive, and 
aligned with strategic 
goals.
Positive-
 
 
Cost Avoidance from 
Operational Disruptions
 
 
Reduction in 
Security Breach Costs
 
 
Lower Data Loss and 
Recovery Expenses
 
 
Insurance 
Premium Reduction
 
 
Compliance 
Cost Efficiency
6.
Data breach
Opportunity
In today’s regulatory and 
digital landscape, data 
breaches carry financial, 
legal, and reputational 
consequences. Tega’s 
growing operations 
across multiple 
jurisdictions and thereby 
exposure to varying data 
protection laws asks for a 
strategic approach.
A comprehensive Data 
Privacy Policy and 
Framework offers the 
opportunity to ensure 
compliance, reduce risk, 
and build stakeholder 
trust through consistent, 
responsible handling of 
personal and sensitive 
data. 
-
Positive-
 
 
Ensure compliance and 
avoid regulatory fines
 
 
Reduce litigation costs
 
 
Protect revenue 
and customer trust
 
 
Enhance brand reputation
 
 
Protect revenue 
and customer trust
 
 
Reduced risk
 
 
Build stakeholder trust 
through consistent, 
responsible handling 
of personal and 
sensitive data.
68
69
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Sl.
No.
Material issue identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk 
/ opportunity 
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
7.
Good 
Onboarding 
Experience 
facilitates 
in 
better 
employee 
traction.
Opportunity
A strong onboarding 
process presents 
an opportunity to 
enhance employee 
retention, accelerate 
productivity, and build 
early engagement apart 
from creating a positive 
impression at the onset of 
joining. It helps new hires 
integrate smoothly into 
the company culture, align 
with organizational values, 
and feel supported from 
the start. Additionally, it 
allows for standardization 
of HR practices, supports 
inclusivity, and creates 
valuable feedback 
channels for continuous 
improvement.
Positive – 
 
 
Reduced Turnover Costs
 
 
Improved Performance
 
 
Cost-Effective 
Talent Acquisition
 
 
Decreased 
Operational Disruptions
 
 
Higher Return 
on HR Investments
8.
Company’s goal & targets towards 
emission avoidance and emission 
reduction. 
Opportunity
With growing regulatory, 
environmental, and 
stakeholder requirement 
to reduce greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, there 
is a strategic requirement 
to strengthen the 
decarbonization roadmap 
with granular approach 
for the operating entities 
as well as for other 
contributing factors
Positive – 
 
 
Avoiding any future legal 
implication, higher carbon 
taxes or levies
 
 
Brand enhancement 
as a Responsible 
Corporate Citizenship
9.
Robust 
implementation 
and 
compliance with Vendor Code of 
Conduct
Opportunity
Ensuring compliance 
with the Vendor Code 
of Conduct presents 
an opportunity for the 
company to promote 
ethical business practices, 
reduce legal and 
operational risks, and 
align with environmental, 
social, and governance 
(ESG) standards. By 
enforcing compliance, the 
company can strengthen 
its brand reputation, 
foster long-term supplier 
relationships, and meet 
industry expectations. 
This commitment 
not only enhances 
transparency and integrity
-
Positive:
 
 
Enhanced Risk 
Management 
and Cost Avoidance
 
 
Increased 
Operational Efficiency
 
 
Competitive 
Market Positioning
 
 
Investor Confidence and 
Financial Performance
 
 
Improved Customer 
Retention and Acquisition
 
 
Better 
Supplier Negotiations
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl.
No.
Material issue identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk 
/ opportunity 
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications) 
but also creates a 
competitive advantage, 
positioning the company 
as a responsible leader in 
its field while safeguarding 
against potential legal and 
reputational issues.
10.
Awareness for development of a 
sustainable procurement process
Opportunity
Raising awareness for 
framing a sustainable 
procurement process 
presents a valuable 
opportunity as it reduces 
environmental impact of 
supply chain and enhances 
the organization’s 
reputation by showcasing 
organization’s 
commitment towards 
evolving environmental, 
governance and social 
regulations, drives 
innovation by encouraging 
suppliers to develop 
sustainable solutions, 
and improves supply 
chain resilience, aligning 
business practices with 
increasing environmental 
and social consciousness.
Positive:
 
 
Reduced risks of ESG 
matters in value chain
 
 
Conduct of 
ethical business 
 
 
Encourages 
suppliers to explore 
sustainable solutions
 
 
Long-term 
financial benefits
 
 
Ensures compliance
 
 
Optimal use of resources
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
Disclosure Questions
Principle 
1
Principle 
2
Principle 
3
Principle 
4
Principle 
5
Principle 
6
Principle 
7
Principle 
8
Principle 
9
Policy and management processes 
1.	 a. 	 Whether your entity’s policy/
policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
1.	 b. 	 Has 
the 
policy 
been 
approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
1.	 c. 	 Web Link of the Policies, if 
available
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
Note 1
2. 	 Whether 
the 
entity 
has 
translated 
the 
policy 
into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
3. 	 Do the enlisted policies extend 
to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/No)
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
70
71
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Disclosure Questions
Principle 
1
Principle 
2
Principle 
3
Principle 
4
Principle 
5
Principle 
6
Principle 
7
Principle 
8
Principle 
9
4. 	 Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international 
codes/
certifications/labels/ 
standards 
(e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) 
standards 
(e.g. 
SA 
8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted 
by your entity and mapped to 
each principle.
At TIL, the policy framework has been meticulously structured in alignment with the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC), reflecting its unwavering commitment to ethical, sustainable, 
and socially responsible business practices. This commitment is further demonstrated through adherence to 
globally recognized management standards, including:
 
 
ISO 9001:2015 – Quality Management System
 
 
ISO 45001:2018 – Occupational Health and Safety Management System
 
 
ISO 14001:2015 – Environmental Management System
 
 
SA 8000:2014 – Social Accountability standard
To ensure continued compliance and effectiveness, these standards are subjected to annual surveillance audits 
conducted by accredited third-party certification bodies, alongside rigorous internal audits.
5.	 Specific 
commitments, 
goals 
and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
We are unwavering in our commitment to sustainability and are actively advancing the following strategic 
initiatives:
 
 
Transitioning to renewable and low-carbon energy sources by scaling up renewable energy i.e. solar power 
installation upto 1 MWp by 2027 
 
 
Pursuing a net-zero emissions trajectory and targeting reduction of absolute GHG emission (Scope 1 & 
Scope 2) upto 20% by FY’30 from the FY’24
 
 
Exploring and enhancing material circularity by increasing the proportion of recycled material content 
in our raw material input and reducing throwaway from the end of life products
TIL is steadfast in its dedication to fostering sustainable development, closely aligning with TIL’s overarching 
vision of contributing meaningfully to nation-building through our initiative SAVE – Sustainably Adding Value 
through Engineering. 
Reflecting our focus on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) imperatives, TIL has instituted a 
comprehensive ESG Framework characterized by clearly articulated goals and performance indicators. 
We maintain rigorous review and oversight of our progress against these objectives to ensure sustained 
accountability and the fulfilment of our long-term commitments.
TIL has proactively identified a wide array of material risks and opportunities, in consultation with both internal 
and external stakeholders. In continuation to the Stakeholder engagement exercise, TIL is in the process of 
crafting clearly defined commitments, forward-looking strategic goals, and quantifiable targets across the ESG 
spectrum. These objectives are being shaped through an inclusive stakeholder engagement process, ensuring 
that our sustainability roadmap reflects both stakeholder priorities and National/International best practices.
6.	 Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals 
and targets along-with reasons 
in case the same are not met.
In line with the target taken, TIL has been able to;
 
 
Install solar power unit of 587 KWp capacity at Samali (West Bengal) unit 
 
 
Reduce absolute GHG emission (Scope 1 & Scope 2) by 7.45% from FY ending 24 by fuel switch into low 
carbon intensive fuel in operation
 
 
Energy intensity has reduced by 17.25% per rupee of turnover 
 
 
GHG emission intensity has reduced by 22.73% per rupee of turnover
 
 
Use compostable plastic  in finished product packaging 
 
 
Got re-certified with modified scope for SA 8000:2014 standard
Governance, Leadership & Oversight
7.	 Statement 
by 
director 
responsible for the business 
responsibility 
report, 
highlighting 
ESG 
related 
challenges, 
targets 
and 
achievements (listed entity 
has flexibility regarding the 
placement of this disclosure)
In today’s World, Sustainability is the larger ecosystem in which any organization operates. Productivity, Quality, 
Cost, Delivery & Profitability are all subsets of this larger ecosystem, wherein, all these business elements do 
have Sustainability or Environment Social Governance (ESG) aspects ingrained in it. TIL envisions to ensure 
that humans and the natural world can coexist in a sustainable manner in the future, for which businesses must 
act responsibly by incorporating sustainability into all facets of its decision-making processes and taking into 
account its effects on the environment and society as a whole.   Sustainably Adding Value Through Engineering 
(SAVE), remaining as the core of our business, while providing customized innovative engineering solutions, 
we are committed to add value to the processes of our clients in multiple ways that leads to a greener future. 
We work to increase stakeholders’ trust in our company, since they are fundamental to how we do business. 
Along-with stakeholder engagement, we have made efforts to identify the material Key Performance 
Indicator (KPIs) by conducting a double materiality assessment and engaging and consulting with the relevant 
stakeholders.
Company has invested in low carbon technologies that translate into enhanced resource and energy efficiency. 
We are also on the journey of achieving an aspirational status of becoming water neutral. At TIL, we have 
started taking steps to move towards a low-carbon future to fight climate change and comply with national 
and international climate change goals. To take forward our involvement in combatting climate change, we’ve 
focussed in reducing both Scope 1 & Scope 2 emission to the extent practicable. Few noteworthy initiatives in 
this regard includes, installation of renewable energy facilities - rooftop solar power unit, switching to cleaner 
fuel for operations. 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Disclosure Questions
Principle 
1
Principle 
2
Principle 
3
Principle 
4
Principle 
5
Principle 
6
Principle 
7
Principle 
8
Principle 
9
The  Safety initiatives also ranged from capability development, training to infrastructure development to bring 
a cultural shift among the workforce. Management system standards focussing on EHS & Social aspects have 
brought significant focus on the overall operational sustainability. The  CSR activity has also spread across all 
the material aspects relevant to our operations.                                                                                                                                    
Recognizing the growing demand for ESG requirements from customers seeking sustainable solutions, Tega 
is well-aligned to meet these demands. The company believes that its commitment to sustainable practices 
is not only essential for existing relationships but also crucial for long-term success and stakeholder value 
creation. Looking ahead, Tega remains steadfast in advancing its sustainability initiatives, fostering a culture of 
responsibility, and creating value for all stakeholders.
8.	 Details 
of 
the 
highest 
authority 
responsible 
for 
implementation 
and 
oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
Mr. Manoj Kumar Sinha
Director – Global Operations (Member of Executive Committee) 
9. 	 Does the entity have a 
specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible 
for 
decision 
making 
on 
sustainability related issues? 
(Yes / No). If yes, provide 
details.
Yes, we have a dedicated Sustainability Committee established at Board level to provide governance 
oversight, monitor progress of all sustainability initiatives. The committee also oversees the development and 
implementation of the sustainability framework and roadmap for the organization to promote sustainable 
practices and behaviour, identify innovation, explore continuous improvement to bring in more competitive 
advantage to the business in comparison to the peers.
The Director - Global Operations, who is also a member of the committee is vested with the authority to 
supervise the execution of sustainability-related policies and strategic decisions. 
Note 1: Source - https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/business_responsibility_&_sustainability_policy.pdf
10.	Details of review of NGRBCs by the company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other 
– please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
TIL has instituted focused committees, constituted to address 
critical facets of corporate governance and strategic oversight. 
These committees operate under the vigilant supervision of the 
Board of Directors or their duly appointed delegates, ensuring that 
TIL’s strategic imperatives are rigorously scrutinized and aligned 
with evolving business dynamics. In this context, any necessary 
refinements or strategic recalibrations are conscientiously 
implemented to uphold operational efficacy, relevance, and long-
term sustainability. The committee which ensures continued 
alignment with corporate mandates and stakeholder engagement 
and expectations is structured as follows: 
 
 
The Sustainability Committee meets atleast   on half yearly 
basis or as deemed necessary;
 
 
The Audit Committee meets atleast four times in a 
financial year with not more than one hundred twenty days 
(120 days) gap between two consecutive meetings or as 
deemed necessary. ;
 
 
The Risk Management Committee meets atleast twice in a 
financial year with a gap of not more than two hundred ten 
days (210 days) between two consecutive meetings or as 
deemed necessary  
 
 
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee meets 
atleast once a year or as deemed necessary..
72
73
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other 
– please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
YES
TIL has instituted robust policies and frameworks for necessary 
implementation of provisions relevant to BRSR principles. TIL’s 
performance on these principles are being reviewed at defined 
intervals or as deemed necessary. A structured Compliance 
Management System (CMS) has been put in place to minimize risks 
associated with non-compliances while also promoting a culture of 
ethical conduct and accountability within the organisation. 
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies 
by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
Principle 
1
Principle  
2
Principle 
3
Principle 
4
Principle 
5
Principle 
6
Principle 
7
Principle 
8
Principle 
9
No
No
Yes 
(SGS India- ISO 
45001 :2018) & 
(SA8000:2014)
Yes
(SGS India 
- SA8000
:2014)
Yes
(SGS India 
- SA8000
:2014)
Yes 
(SGS India- 
ISO14001 :2015)
No
No
No
12.	If answer to question (1) above is “no” i.e. not all principles are covered by a policy, reasons 
to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and implement the 
policies on specified principles (Yes/No)*
NA
NA
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources available 
for the task (Yes/No)
NA
NA
Any other reason (please specify)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
NA indicates Not Applicable: Response to the above question is in respect to Question # 1.a. of Section B (Management and Process 
Disclosure) of this BRSR
Section C: Principle Wise Performance Disclosure
Principle 1: Businesses Should Conduct and Govern Themselves with Integrity, 
and in a Manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators:
1.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during 
the financial year:
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles 
covered under the 
training and its impact
% of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors
12
Principle 1, 7, 8 
100
Key Managerial Personnel
12
Principle 1, 7, 8
100
Employees other than Board of Directors 
(BODs) and Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs)
165
Principle 1, 2, 3, 5
74.08
Workers
71
Principle 2, 3, 5
19.73
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
2.	 Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees / settlement 
amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by directors / kmps) with regulators / 
law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following 
format (note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (listing obligations and disclosure obligations) regulations, 
2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the
regulatory/
enforcement
Amount  
(In INR)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal
Been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine 
1 & 7
Assistant 
Commissioner CGST 
& CX, Rashbehari 
Division, Kolkata South 
Commissionerate.
28,05,071
The Order has 
been passed 
alleging availment 
of ineligible 
credits of Cesses 
into GST TRAN-
1 by TIL.
No
Settlement
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Compounding fee
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal
Been preferred?  
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NA
NA
NA
NA
Punishment
NA
NA
NA
NA
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions
NA
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
3.	 Of the instances disclosed in question 2 above, details of the appeal / revision preferred in 
cases here monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed:
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
	
There is no such instance wherein Appeal/ Revision has been filed for monetary or non-monetary action.
4.	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief 
and if available, provide a web-link to the policy:
	
Yes, the Company maintains a comprehensive Code of Conduct, which encompasses the aspects of anti-corruption and anti-
bribery, the scope of the same extends to all the employees as well as the Senior Management of the Company. The Code is 
accessible through the appended link: https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/Tega-Code-of-Conduct.pdf. The Company is 
committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards while undertaking fair business operations and implementing and enforcing 
effective systems to detect, counter, and prevent bribery and corruption. 
74
75
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
5.	 Number of directors / KMPs / employees / workers against whom disciplinary action was 
taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption:
6.	 Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Particulars
FY 2024 - 2025
FY 2023 - 2024
Number
Remark
Number
Remark
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
0
NA
0
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
0
NA
0
NA
	
*NA indicates Not Applicable
7.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / 
penalties / action taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, on 
cases of corruption and conflicts of interest:
	
Not Applicable.
8.	 Number of days of accounts payables ((accounts payable *365) / cost of goods/services 
procured) in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
60.49
97
9.	 Openness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and 
advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration 
of Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
15.77
15.36
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
28
24
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
91.44
95
Concentration 
of Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
5.50
6.88
b.	 Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
12
23
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to dealers / 
distributors
98.22
85.12^
Share of RPTs 
in
a.	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
0.00122
0.00055
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
0.44
0.33
c.	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties / Total loans 
& advances)*
64.57
3.43
d.	 Investments (Investments in related parties / Total Investments made)*
71.88
12.32
	
* Value is in percentage form
	
^ Value has been revised in percentage form
	
No fresh loans and investments done in the current financial year which is considered for reporting. However, the calculation to 
derive the share of RPTs pertaining to loans & advances and investments are based on the Audited Balance Sheet information.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
1.	 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during 
the financial year:
Total number of awareness  
programmes held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by 
value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programmes*
88
Principle 2, 3, 4, 5, 9
100
	
* coverage extends to only contractors and customers in the value chain
2.	 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving 
members of the board? (Yes/No) if yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, TIL has established robust mechanisms to proactively prevent, identify, and address conflicts of interest involving Board members. 
A comprehensive, Board-approved policy governs conflict-of-interest management, meticulously aligned with applicable laws, 
regulations, and industry best practices.
	
The procedures for addressing conflicts of interest detailed under Clause (ii) of the “General Standards of Conduct” within the 
Code of Conduct are applicable to all Board members and senior management. This structured approach ensures transparency, 
integrity, and accountability in all decision-making processes. The link is - https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/code_
of_conduct_for_all_members_of_the_board_and_senior_management_.pdf.
Principle 2: Businesses Should Provide Goods and Services in a Manner That is 
Sustainable and Safe.
Essential Indicators:
1.	 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to 
improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and 
capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvement in social and environmental impacts
R&D*
100
0
In FY 2024-25:
1.	 TIL undertook the pilot scale installation and systematic upgrading of advanced 
screen panels having lesser throw away which uses existing components.
2.	 Condition based monitoring infrastructure for screen panel is being made 
effective thereby reducing equipment downtime, improving productivity and 
reducing health & safety risk.
3.	 This has eventually curtailed material redundancy and contributed to the 
substantial reduction of industrial waste generation.
Leadership Indicators:
76
77
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvement in social and environmental impacts
Capex
26
73.24
In alignment with the TIL’s commitment to responsible operations and sustainable 
growth, several targeted capital investments were undertaken & proposed during 
FY 2024–25 to enhance both environmental integrity and social well-being across 
operational sites. The details of these strategic investments are as follows: 
 
 
Establishment of Chemlock and Explosives Storage Yard in compliance 
with PESO (Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation) regulations, ensuring 
heightened workplace safety and legal adherence. 
 
 
Upgradation of Siemens SCADA and PLC Hardware in the Banbury 
system to enhance automation, energy monitoring, and process control, thereby 
reducing emissions and improving operational transparency. 
 
 
Replacement of Ambulance (Over 10 Years of Service Life) to ensure 
timely and reliable medical response, reinforcing the company’s emphasis on 
employee health and occupational safety. 
 
 
Replacement of Bright Bars with Rails for the movement of all EOT cranes 
within the factory premises, contributing to enhanced structural safety, reduced 
wear and tear, and improved energy efficiency. 
 
 
Installation of Enhanced Drinking Water Facilities to improve employee 
welfare and hygiene, supporting the organization’s social sustainability objectives. 
 
 
Conversion of Boiler Fuel System to Dual-Fuel Capability, facilitating 
operational flexibility and a reduction in dependency on high-emission fuels, thus 
aligning with long-term decarbonization goals.
	
*Currently, the investment is insignificant
2.	 a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes, TIL is striving to institute sustainable sourcing policies and practices to ensure alignment with the overarching sustainability 
objectives. Different national and international framework requirements pertaining to sustainable sourcing is being considered 
for developing such policies and procedures. 
	
	
One of the important aspects which is the Supplier Code of Conduct, delineates the environmental, social and governance 
aspects as expected from the supply chain. This code establishes clear guidelines encompassing compliance with legal and 
regulatory frameworks, adherence to safety and environmental best practices, upholding of human rights, promotion of ethical 
labour practices including fair wages, and assurance of product and service functionality.
	
	
To reinforce alignment with the TIL’s sustainability vision and performance benchmarks, all suppliers are contractually obligated 
to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. 
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Currently 100% of the plastic material being used for finished product packaging/ wrapping is compostable in nature.  
3.	 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and 
disposing at the end of life, for (a) plastics (including packaging) (b) e-waste (c) hazardous 
waste and (d) other waste.
 
 
TIL is in the process of developing pilot scale implementation to address the end -of-life aspect of the product being supplied.
 
 
In this service, which is conceptually being developed will establish infrastructure to handle the end-of-life aspects of the mill 
liners in a safe & environment friendly manner.
 
 
In this process the product (i.e. liners) which has exhausted its useable life will be collected from the customers.
 
 
The metal and non-metallic parts will be segregated with a specialised method, so that both can be recycled back in the cost 
effective as well as environmentally sound manner.
 
 
Product manufactured by TIL, uses minimal packaging and some of them are made of compostable plastic. Hence handling & 
disposal will follow law of the land requirement.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
 
 
Non hazardous metal scrap will be recycled back through agencies manufacturing casting material using  scrap.
 
 
Other hazardous material will follow law of the land requirement post segregation
4. 	 Whether extended producer responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities 
(Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the extended producer 
responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to pollution control boards? If not, provide steps taken 
to address the same.
	
Yes, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to TIL’s operations. TIL complies with necessary relevant legal requirements 
by formulating and submitting management plan to the Pollution Control Board (PCB). This is in line with the requirement of 
Extended Producer Responsibility. 
	
TIL has formally submitted its EPR Action Plan to the CPCB and actively adheres to the progressive, year-wise targets stipulated 
by the Board.  
	
TIL also as a commitment towards sustainable waste management, environmental stewardship under the EPR framework started 
using compostable plastic for packaging purpose.
1.	 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products 
(for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details 
in the following format? *
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total
Turnover
contributed
Boundary for
which the Life
Cycle Perspective /
Assessment
was conducted
Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes/No)
Results
communicated
in public domain
(Yes/No) If yes, 
provide the web-
link.
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Organisation is exploring the scope of LCA for relevant product and will execute accordingly”
2.	 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from 
production or disposal of your products / services, as identified in the life cycle perspective / 
assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action 
taken to mitigate the same. *
Name of Product /Service
Description of the risk /concern
Action Taken
-
-
-
	
*Details specific to the above question in the specified format shall be provided in the future
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total 
material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
-
-
-
3.	 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production 
(for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry). *
	
*Details specific to the above question in the specified format shall be provided in the future
Leadership Indicators:
78
79
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
4.	 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) 
reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Stakeholder group from whom 
complaint is received
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely
Disposed
Re-Used 
Recycled
Safely
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
-
-
-
-
-
-
E-waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
Hazardous waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
*Details specific to the above question in the specified format shall be provided in the future
5.	 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each 
product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials
as % of total products sold in respective category
-
-
	
*Details specific to the above question in the specified format shall be provided in the future
Principle 3: Businesses Should Respect and Promote the Well-Being of All 
Employees, Including Those in Their Value Chains.
1.	 a.	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
460
437
95
460
100
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
53
46
87
53
100
53
100
0
0
0
0
Total
513
483
94
513
100
53
100
0
0
0
0
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
29
9
31
2
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
4
3
75
0
0
4
100
0
0
0
0
Total
33
12
36
2
6
4
100
0
0
0
0
Essential Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
196
99
51
196
100
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
196
99
51
196
100
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
715
173
24.20
173
24.20
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
1
1
100
1
100
1
100
0
0
0
0
Total
716
174
24.30
174
24.30
1
100
0
0
0
0
	
B.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format –
FY 2024-25*
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company
9.3
10.7
	
	
*includes provident fund and other funds and staff welfare expenses
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
/ deposited 
with the 
authority
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
98.71
100
YES
99.1
100
YES
Gratuity
98.71
100
YES
100
100
YES
ESI
9.15
70.5
YES
7.47
47
YES
Others – please specify
-
-
-
-
-
-
2.	 Details of retirement benefits, for current FY and previous financial year
	
* The percentage is less than 100% since there are certain persons other than employees/ retainers who are not covered under PF & Gratuity.
3. 	 Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes,TIL is committed to foster a workplace that is inclusive, equitable, and accessible for all employees, while adhering to the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPWD Act). In pursuit of this objective, TIL is in the process of developing infrastructure across 
all the facilities which aids in empowering individuals with disabilities and ensuring their full integration into the organization.
	
Wheelchair-accessible ramps, widened doorways, available in few facilities aid in mobility for persons with disabilities. These will be 
further enhanced in number with necessary infrastructure in other facilities.
80
81
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
4.	 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the rights of persons with disabilities 
act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes,TIL is steadfast in its commitment to promoting equal opportunities in accordance with the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016. This commitment is explicitly articulated in the Company’s Code of Conduct under the section titled “Equal 
Opportunities Employer.” TIL ensures a fair, inclusive, and non-discriminatory work environment where meritocracy and respect for 
diversity are upheld.
	
Weblink- https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/Tega-Code-of-Conduct.pdf
5.	 Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental 
leave.
Gender
Permanent employees*
Permanent workers
Return to work 
rate
Retention rate
Return to work 
rate
Retention rate
Male
0
0
0
0
Female
100
100
0
0
Total
0
100
0
0
6.	 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories 
of employees and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
YES/NO 
(If YES, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent workers
Yes*
Non-permanent workers
Yes*
Permanent employees
Yes*
Non-permanent employees
Yes*
 
 
Permanent employees: Provision of different site level committees available, act as a platform for grievances redressal.
 
 
Non-permanent employees: EHS Committee and Grievance Redressal Committee
 
 
Permanent Workers: Provision of different committees like Grievance Redressal Committee, EHS Committee, Works 
Committee, which act as a platform to resolve relevant issues.
 
 
Non-Permanent Workers: Provision of different committees like Grievance Redressal Committee, EHS Committee, Works 
Committee, which act as a platform to resolve relevant issues.
	
TIL has appropriate processes and procedures that have been established to receive and redress grievances from employees 
(permanent & non-permanent) and workers (permanent & non-permanent). Currently at TIL the mechanism to capture grievances 
of the employees comprises of whistle-blower mechanism and the POSH, both of which have board approved policies and 
procedures implemented. 
	
The mechanism of whistle-blower comprises of lodging of complaints by the employee within 30 days after becoming aware of 
the incident, which is then investigated by the vigilance officer followed by submission of the same to the vigilance committee. The 
committee then conducts an internal audit, wherein if unethical & improper act is concluded by the committee, then the audit 
committee enforces disciplinary or corrective action. 
	
The mechanism of POSH comprises of lodging of detailed complain along with documentary evidence, if available. Post receipt of 
the complaint and prior to initiating the inquiry, the committee take steps to conciliate the complaint between the complainant and 
the respondent. During inquiry all the proceedings are documented, and the committee interviews the respondent separately and 
impartially. Committee states exactly what the allegation is and who has made the allegation. The respondent is given full opportunity 
to respond and provide any evidence, etc. Detailed notes of the meetings are prepared which may be shared with the respondent and 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
complainant upon request. Any witnesses produced by the respondent are also interviewed & statements are taken. Post the inquiry 
the committee submits its report containing the findings and recommendations to the employer, within 10 days of completion of the 
inquiry. Appropriate steps are taken depending on whether the complaint is unsubstantiated or substantiated. 
	
To receive and redress the grievances of workers currently there are two mechanisms – the first mechanism comprises of the 
workers registering complaints directly with the plant HR or departmental supervisor or the plant head, which is then subsequently 
investigated and addressed. The second mechanism comprises of suggestion boxes which are available at all the manufacturing 
facilities. Each month the suggestions submitted in the boxes are reviewed by the internal committee of the plants and appropriate 
measures are taken to address the concerns/suggestions submitted by the workers
7.	 Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or union(s) recognised by the listed 
entity:
Category
FY 2024-2025
FY 2023-2024 
Total number 
of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total number 
of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective category 
who are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total 
Permanent 
Employees
513
0
0
509
0
0
Male
460
0
0
465
0
0
Female
53
0
0
44
0
0
Total 
Permanent 
Workers
196
113
58
193
96
49.74
Male
196
113
58
193
96
49.74
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
8.	 Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total  
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
No.(E)
%(E/D)
No.(F)
%(F/D)
Employees
Male
489
134
27
403
82
512
205
40.04
485
94.73
Female
57
20
35
53
93
45
13
28.89
43
95.56
Total
546
154
28
456
84
557
218
39.14
528
94.79
Workers
Male
911
774
85
246
27
193
88
45.63
33
17.10
Female
1
1
100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
912
775
85
246
27
193
88
45.60
33
17.10
82
83
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
9.	 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No.(B)*
%(B/A)
Total (C)
No.(D)*
%(C/D)
Employees
Male
489
489
100
512
512
100 
Female
57
57
100
45
45
100 
Total
546
546
100
557
557
100
Workers
Male
911
196
22
193
193
100
Female
1
0
0
0
0
0
Total
912
196
22.00
193
193
100
	
*No clarity has been provided in this format nor has any clarity been provided in the guidance note on what is meant by Column # B & D in the table. In the spirit of this 
engagement, TIL is assuming that Column # B & D refers to the total number of resources who have been covered under performance and career development reviews 
– accordingly, the number has been calculated and reported by TIL.  
10.	Health and safety management system:
A.	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
TIL has instituted a comprehensive and resilient Occupational Health and Safety Management System in line with ISO 45001:2018 
standard. This certification serves as a testament to TIL’s dedication to fostering a safe, secure, and healthy workplace. The standard 
provides a framework to develop and deploy protocols in risk mitigation, proactive hazard identification in pursuit of continual 
enhancement in health and safety practices across all operating facilities. 
	
The certification scope covers the Design, Engineering, Development, Production, and Installation of a diverse portfolio of tailor-
made solutions for the Mineral Processing, Beneficiation, Mining, and Materials Handling sectors across both Ferrous and Non-
Ferrous domains. 
	
The implementation of TIL’s Occupational Health and Safety Management System is fully integrated covering its Corporate 
Headquarter as well as all manufacturing units in Samali, Kalyani, and Dahej (India). This ensures uniform compliance with occupational 
safety norms and standards across all facilities, thereby enhancing the company’s overall safety performance, operational efficiency, 
and commitment to excellence.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
TIL has implemented an integrated framework in line with ISO 45001:2018 which comprises of structured processes and procedural 
safeguards that serve to proactively identify, assess, and neutralize occupational health and safety risks. Some of them are: 
	
1.	
Hazard identification and risk assessment (HIRA): 
	
	
Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) methodology is a structured process, which facilitates the early detection 
of workplace hazards, followed by a thorough evaluation of associated risks. Based on this assessment, TIL has implemented 
control measures designed to minimize exposure and safeguard its workforce from potential incidents. 
	
2.	
Job safety analysis (JSA): 
	
	
TIL has adopted the Job Safety Analysis (JSA) framework for job specific risk assessment. In this  job tasks are further cascaded 
down to discrete steps, systematically identifying possible hazards at each phase, and establishing targeted control measures. 
This analytical breakdown ensures that safety principles are deeply woven into the operational fabric of each job function. 
	
3.	
Routine internal safety audits: 
	
	
TIL carries out periodic Internal Audits led by trained Safety Officers. These audits play a critical role in proactively uncovering 
potential occupational hazards and evaluating procedural adherence. The insights gained from these evaluations are used to 
refine safety protocols and deploy enhanced control mechanisms, ensuring that safety standards are not only maintained but 
continuously improved. 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
4.	
Permit to work (PTW) system: 
	
	
For tasks classified as hazardous, high-risk, or non-routine, TIL has instituted a stringent Permit to Work (PTW) system. This 
formal, documented authorization protocol ensures that all such activities are pre-approved, thoroughly assessed for potential 
dangers, and executed only after necessary safety measures have been implemented. The PTW system acts as a critical control 
mechanism, reinforcing accountability and operational discipline in high-risk environments. 
	
	
Through these comprehensive initiatives, TIL exemplifies its deep-rooted commitment to cultivating a resilient safety culture, 
driving continuous improvement in occupational health and safety performance, and aligning rigorously with the globally 
recognized standards outlined in ISO 45001:2018.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Y/N)
	
Yes, TIL has effectively implemented the innovative concept of the ‘Safety Alert Card’ and QR code based EHS reporting system as a 
proactive safety management tool. This initiative empowers both blue-collar and white-collar employees to promptly report work-
related hazards, thereby enhancing workplace safety and fostering a culture of ownership.
	
The Safety Alert Card and the online reporting system which serves as a structured mechanism for employees to identify, report and 
resolve various safety deviations, including:
 
 
Unsafe Acts
 
 
Unsafe Conditions
 
 
Near Misses
 
 
Dangerous Occurrences
 
 
Other Potential Hazards
	
Upon reporting, appropriate corrective and preventive measures are initiated to mitigate risks and eliminate hazards. This system 
ensures that reported issues are diligently tracked, addressed, and closed, thereby safeguarding employees and promoting a secure 
and resilient working environment.
d.	
Do the employees / worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
	
Yes, TIL ensures that all workers have access to comprehensive non-occupational medical and healthcare services, underscoring its 
commitment to employee well-being and safety.
	
The Company’s manufacturing facilities are equipped with Occupational Health Centres (OHCs) designed to provide immediate first 
aid and initial medical response in the event of injuries or other health-related incidents. These centres are staffed and equipped to 
deliver prompt care, ensuring timely intervention and stabilization.
	
In cases where further medical attention is required, employees are seamlessly referred to external healthcare facilities for advanced 
treatment. This integrated approach demonstrates TIL’s dedication to maintaining a safe, healthy, and supportive work environment.
11.	Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
Workers*
Employees
Workers*
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (Per One Million- 
Person Hours Worked)
0
2.26
0
0.78
Total Recordable Work-Related Injuries
0
43
0
68 
No. of Fatalities
0
0
0
0
High Consequence Work- Related Injury or Ill-Health 
(Excluding Fatalities)
0
0
0
0
	
*Considered for the sites of Samali, Kalyani and Dahej only
84
85
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
12.	Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
TIL has instituted structured Safety Management System that aligns with the requirements of ISO 45001:2018. Designed to anticipate 
and mitigate occupational hazards, the system integrates multiple layers of procedural controls and proactive interventions aimed at 
achieving excellence in workplace safety. 
	
Core safety management initiatives: 
	
1.	
Hazard identification and risk assessment (HIRA): 
	
	
An important aspect of TIL’s safety framework, the HIRA process is implemented with precision across all the operating units 
to proactively identify potential hazards. This structured approach involves a comprehensive analysis of operational risks and 
the deployment of effective control measures, ensuring that risks are either eliminated or significantly reduced before they can 
impact health or safety. 
	
2.	
Job safety analysis (JSA): 
	
	
The JSA framework is employed systematically to embed safety and occupational health considerations into each job or task. 
TIL is able to pinpoint potential hazards, assess their impact, and establish proactive safety measures that must be observed 
before any activity commences and periodically reviews the same. 
	
3.	
Safety reporting mechanisms: 
	
	
TIL encourages a culture of vigilance and accountability through multiple safety reporting channels that empower employees 
at all levels to participate in risk prevention: 
	
	
a.	
Safety alert card system: A frontline tool enabling personnel to report unsafe acts, conditions, or near-miss incidents 
in real-time, thereby initiating immediate corrective action. 
	
	
b.	
Online internal reporting portal: A dedicated digital platform that facilitates the efficient recording, tracking, and 
resolution of safety-related incidents, promoting transparency and continuous monitoring. 
	
	
c.	
Qr code-based reporting: An innovative reporting interface that allows for swift documentation of safety concerns 
through mobile-enabled scanning, fostering responsive hazard communication for the blue collared employee & visitors. 
	
4.	
Permit to work system (PTW): 
	
	
Recognized as a critical control element, the PTW system is enforced to regulate the execution of high-risk or non-routine 
tasks. Each permit entails documented authorization, detailing the nature of the task, its location and timing, as well as specific 
safety protocols that must be adhered to. This ensures that every hazardous operation is conducted with full awareness, 
planning, and preventive safeguards in place. 
	
5.	
Periodic internal audits: 
	
	
Under the guidance of experienced Safety Officers, TIL conducts regular internal audits to rigorously evaluate workplace safety 
performance, identify latent hazards, and verify adherence to established procedures. These audits form a continuous feedback 
loop that drives safety enhancements and ensures alignment with ISO 45001:2018 mandates. 
	
6.	
Training and safety awareness programs: 
	
	
As part of its ongoing Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) development strategy, TIL conducts structured training sessions 
and awareness campaigns aimed at elevating workforce competencies. These programs cultivate a deep-rooted understanding 
of safety practices, instil responsibility, and reinforce behavioural safety principles at all levels of the organization. 
	
	
Through the strategic execution of these initiatives, TIL ensures the consistent application of its Safety Management System, 
solidifying its commitment to safeguarding people, preventing workplace incidents, and nurturing a proactive safety culture. 
This dedication not only sustains operational excellence but also underscores TIL’s long-term vision of being a benchmark in 
industrial health and safety stewardship.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
13.	Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions*
113
24
NA
104
32
NA
Health & Safety*
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
	
*Since no such specific guidance has been provided in respect to working conditions and health & safety, further since, in our understanding both such matters are inter-
operable, hence, we have included all such reporting through our inhouse portal system of health and safety under working conditions
	
# NA indicates Not Applicable.
14.	Assessments for the year:
% Of your plants and offices* that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities, or third parties)
Health and Safety Practices
100 
Working Conditions
100 
	
*Branch offices were not included during the assessment
15.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related 
incidents (if any) and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & 
safety practices and working conditions.
	
TIL has adopted a systematic and methodical framework for the identification, resolution, and prevention of non-conformances 
detected through comprehensive audits, operational assessments, and safety inspections. This proactive approach reinforces the 
organization’s commitment to the continual improvement of its Safety Management System (SMS), driving excellence in 
occupational health and safety performance. 
	
Corrective action mechanisms and hierarchical risk controls   
	
Corrective and preventive actions arising from internal and external safety evaluations are addressed through a well-defined 
hierarchy of controls, ensuring that all identified deviations are mitigated through the most effective and sustainable interventions. 
This structured framework includes: 
 
 
Elimination: Total removal of hazards at the source, wherever practical, to eradicate risks entirely. 
 
 
Substitution: Replacement of hazardous materials, processes, or equipment with safer alternatives that pose reduced risk. 
 
 
Isolation & segregation: Physical separation of hazardous operations from personnel or critical work areas to prevent 
accidental exposure. 
 
 
Engineering controls: Deployment of technical modifications, equipment redesigns, and safety-enhancing technologies to 
minimize exposure and operational risk. 
 
 
Administrative controls: Implementation of policies, standard operating procedures (SOPs), job rotations, and work-time 
limitations to reduce risk through organizational discipline. 
 
 
PPE management: Rigorous oversight of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) — encompassing appropriate selection, 
correct usage, scheduled maintenance, and employee training to ensure effective protection. 
	
All non-conformances are documented, classified according to their risk severity, and reviewed periodically to assess trends and 
response effectiveness. Responsibility for corrective actions is delegated to designated departmental leads, who are held 
accountable for prompt and thorough resolution. Once the corrective actions are implemented, the EHS team conducts 
verification checks to validate the effectiveness of the resolution and ensure full compliance with safety requirements. 
86
87
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
	
Furthermore, the status and outcomes of corrective actions are systematically reviewed in Safety Committee meetings, 
enabling transparent discussion, cross-functional learning, and strategic oversight. This cycle of feedback and improvement strengthens 
safety governance and embeds a culture of accountability. 
	
EHS capability development 
	
Recognizing that a resilient safety system is underpinned by empowered personnel, TIL places significant emphasis on the 
development of EHS capabilities across its workforce. Regular and topic-specific training programs are conducted to enhance 
employee knowledge, operational awareness, and competence in executing safety responsibilities. These initiatives cover key 
areas such as: 
 
 
Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA/HIRAC) 
 
 
Job Safety Analysis (JSA) 
 
 
Permit to Work (PTW) procedures 
 
 
Incident investigation and root cause analysis 
 
 
Safe work practices and emergency preparedness 
	
By continually upgrading workforce capabilities and fostering a proactive mindset, TIL ensures that its safety practices remain aligned 
with evolving risks and that all personnel contribute meaningfully to maintaining compliance with ISO 45001:2018 standards.
1.	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death 
of (a) employees (Y/N) (b) workers (Y/N).
	
No, the entity does not currently extend any formal life insurance coverage or compensatory packages in the event of the death of 
either Employees or Workers. There is group personal accidental insurance and group health insurance facility. While the organization 
remains deeply committed to the welfare and safety of its workforce, a structured provision for posthumous financial compensation 
or Life insurance benefits yet to be devised.  
2.	 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been 
deducted and deposited by the value chain partners.
	
TIL has established a process of periodic assessments to ensure that statutory dues deducted by its value chain partners (contractors/ 
service providers at operating facilities) are duly deposited with the relevant authorities. This procedure involves systematic 
monitoring, verification, and compliance checks to ensure adherence to all applicable statutory requirements.  
3.	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related 
injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported in Q.11 of essential indicators above), who have been 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed 
in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
0
0
0
0
Workers
4
0
0
0
Leadership Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
4.	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability 
and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of 
employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No, TIL does not presently offer formal transition assistance programs aimed at facilitating continued employability or managing 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. While the organization acknowledges the importance of 
the same but formal assistance/ support initiatives have not yet been institutionalized.  
5.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners* (by value of business 
done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and Safety Practices
100
Working Conditions
100
	
* Business partners of the organization engaged in providing contractual workers for carrying out operational requirements at manufacturing locations.
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / 
concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of 
value chain partners.
	
As proactive approach,
 
 
Contractor & service provider are strictly monitored under EHS governance criteria post deployment at operating units.  
 
 
Periodic training & awareness is imparted and on job assessment is done to improve their acumen around EHS aspects, 
 
 
They are made aware of emergency mock drills and their role in the same, 
 
 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) as per job need or requirements are being provided to the contractor employee by TIL, 
 
 
Periodic audit and review of compliance in line with regulatory EHS requirements is being reviewed by TIL site and HQ 
representatives. 
 
 
Supplier code of conduct also covers H&S, working condition requirements as well as assessment framework.
Principle 4: Businesses Should Respect the Interests of and be Responsive to All 
Its Stakeholders.
1.	 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Tega has identified the roles and responsibilities of each of its departments, followed by the identification of the relevant stakeholders 
connected with the corresponding roles. Following the same, every department has assigned a particular score to each category 
of  stakeholders to prioritize the stakeholders. Key Stakeholder groups at TIL is identified through this internal framework, in 
conjunction with applicable forms & formats that have been developed and implemented. 
	
The framework emphasizes on understanding & capturing the influence and impact of the of stakeholders on the business,   along 
with the impact of the business on the stakeholder, during the process and appropriate weightage in terms of economic, social, and 
environmental impacts is allocated to the broad set of stakeholder categories (both internal & external). 
Essential Indicators:
88
89
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
2.	 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with 
each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable 
& Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Investors
No
Meetings both physical and virtual, Email, 
telephonic conversation
Quarterly & event 
based
 
 
To inform on how the 
Company 
is 
currently 
doing and what it plans to 
do in near term future and 
responding to all queries.
Shareholders
No
Meetings both physical and virtual, Email, 
telephonic conversation
Event based / as and 
when approached
 
 
To 
apprise 
on 
the 
Company’s performance 
and addressing the queries.
Employees & 
Workers
No
Meetings both Physical and Virtual 
including Open house meetings, Email, 
Social 
Media 
platforms, Telephonic 
Conversation
Throughout the 
Year
 
 
To inform and educate 
about 
organisational 
developments, updations 
(process and policies) 
and compliances.
Customers
No
Email, Virtual and Physical Meeting
Event based
 
 
Query/ clarification handling 
and customer support
Communities
Yes
Meetings, Email, written correspondence, 
telephonic conversation
Event based
 
 
Identify 
CSR 
projects 
in participatory mode 
with communities
 
 
Due diligence of new projects.
 
 
Monitoring and evaluation 
of CSR projects 
Regulatory 
Body
No
Email, written correspondence, website, 
Stock Exchange
Event based
 
 
Compliance 
related 
matters and/or inspections 
(if any) or approvals as 
and when required
BoDs & KMPs
No
Meetings both physical and virtual, Email, 
written 
correspondence, 
telephonic 
conversation
Quarterly / 
Regularly / Event 
based
 
 
Aiding 
in 
strategy 
implementation 
and 
decision making.
Auditors
No
Meetings both physical and virtual, 
telephonic conversation
Quarterly & event 
based
 
 
Assessment of status of 
compliance in accordance 
with statutory and voluntary/
policy requirements.
Register & 
Share Transfer 
Agent
No
Meeting, Email, written correspondence, 
telephonic conversation
Quarterly / 
Regularly / Event 
based
 
 
Primarily aid shareholders 
/ Investors engagement 
and communication.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
1.	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the board on economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such 
consultations provided to the board.
	
As a step forward in sustainability journey, Tega identified and reached out to multiple stakeholders and conducted a fairly 
comprehensive materiality assessment exercise in FY 2024-2025 to identify its focus areas. With a long-term plan on sustainability 
and non-financial reporting, Tega applies a Double Materiality assessment approach to systematically identify and prioritize its material 
matters based on concerns and expectations identified through engagement and consultation with the stakeholders. The process for 
consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics is the Stakeholder Engagement 
& Consultation and Sustainability based Materiality Assessment Framework (SEC & SMAF). The process comprises of 
the following stages –
 
 
Identification of Key stakeholder groups (internal and external) through appropriate weightage in terms of economic, social and 
environmental impacts considering both impact of the stakeholder on business and the impact of the business on the stakeholder.
 
 
Development and circulation of appropriate questionnaires amongst key stakeholder groups identified to identify issues/
concerns material to the business, from stakeholder’s perspective.
 
 
Identification of material KPI’s through Sustainability based Materiality Assessment framework (SMAF).
 
 
Communication of the material KPIs identified, and feedback received from the stakeholders to the Board.
	
TIL has a Stakeholder Engagement committee to consult with stakeholders and receive feedback from them and the feedback 
received is further communicated to the board. 
2.	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management 
of environmental, and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how 
the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and 
activities of the entity.
	
Stakeholder consultation is also one of the important tool in facilitating the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics. The materiality assessment process is adopted for identification of environmental, social and governance topics that 
are matters of concern/expectations to stakeholders and the business. In accordance with identified topics the management and 
the Board at TIL incorporates components in policy statements and procedures to address the concerns raised and accordingly 
formulates pathways for mitigation/adaptation of the concerns raised and or for capitalizing the opportunities identified.
3.	 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns 
of vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
Tega actively engages in consultations with vulnerable and marginalized segments of society as an integral component of its Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Constructive feedback from these target groups is systematically gathered and incorporated 
into the design, planning, and execution of CSR programs, ensuring that the interventions are tailored to effectively address the 
specific needs and aspirations of the intended beneficiaries.
Leadership Indicators:
90
91
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total  
(A)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered 
(B)
%  
(B / A)
Total  
(C)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered 
(D)
%  
(D / C)
Employees
Permanent
513
473
92
509
455
89
Other than Permanent
33
1
3
48
2
4
Total Employees
546
474
87
557
457
82
Workers
Permanent
196
5
3
193
88
46
Other than Permanent
716
64
9
835
726
87
Total Workers
912
69
8
1,028
814
79
Principle 5: Businesses Should Respect and Promote Human Rights.
1.	 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and 
policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format:
	
Over and above all the relevant policies are also posted in company’s intranet and the same is updated in case of any revision. Access 
to the intranet is provided to all employees to periodically update themselves on policies.
2.	 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
No.(E)
%(E/D)
No.(F)
%(F/D)
Employees
Permanent
513
0
0
513
100
509
0
0
509
100
Male
460
0
0
460
100
465
0
0
465
100
Female
53
0
0
53
100
44
0
0
44
100
Other than 
Permanent
33
0
0
33
100
48
0
0
48
100
Male
29
0
0
29
100
47
0
0
47
100
Female
4
0
0
4
100
1
0
0
1
100
Workers
Permanent
196
0
0
196
100
193
0
0
193
100
Male
196
0
0
196
100
193
0
0
193
100
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than 
Permanent
716
213
30
503
70
835
237
28.38
598
71.71
Male
715
212
30
503
70
834
236
28.29
598
71.71
Female
1
1
100
0
0
1
1
100
0
0
Essential Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
3.	 Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
a.	
Median remuneration / wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors (BoDs)*
1
5,87,81,634
0
0
Key Managerial Personnels (KMPs^)
3
1,55,44,864
Employees other than BoD and KMP**
528
6,12,883
54
4,94,790
Workers**
196
2,90,118
0
0
	
*Included only for Non-Independent Directors 
	
^ Tega has 3 KMPs, inclusive of one female KMP and hence, the same has been merged in the remuneration/ wages of male category figure to protect the disclosure of the 
remuneration/ wages of the female KMP.
	
**Employees and workers who are only included as on roll employees
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
6.15^
0*
	
* Data for FY 2023-24 has been reported only for female permanent workers (i.e. blue collared).
	
^ Data for FY 2024-25 has been reported considering all female permanent employees as well as other than permanent female employees; and female permanent workers 
	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes,the obligation to address and manage human rights implications is collectively undertaken by multiple dedicated committees 
operating across both the corporate headquarter and plant sites. These include, but are not limited to, the Social Performance Team, 
the Internal Oversight Committee, and the Grievance Redressal Committee, Internal Complaints Committee. These committees 
play pivotal role in the identification, assessment, and resolution of diverse human rights concerns, ensuring a comprehensive and 
multilayered governance mechanism is available throughout the organization.
4.	 Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights 
issues.
	
TIL has instituted a suite of internal policies and procedural frameworks aimed at upholding and addressing issues related to human 
rights. Among these are well-established mechanisms such as the Whistleblower Policy and the Policy on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment (POSH), which serve as primary tools for grievance redressal and safeguarding employee dignity. In addition to these 
foundational policies, supplementary standards and frameworks have been adopted to ensure a comprehensive approach to human 
rights due diligence and protection. Key elements of these initiatives are outlined below:
	
(a)	 Whistleblower policy
	
	
TIL is steadfast in its commitment to conducting its operations with utmost fairness, transparency, and ethical integrity. Adhering 
to the highest standards of professionalism and honesty, the Whistleblower Policy provides a formal avenue for employees and 
stakeholders to confidentially report any instance of unethical conduct, suspected fraud, or violations of the TIL’s Code of 
Conduct. While this policy is a statutory requirement, it also reflects the organization’s proactive stance in fostering a culture 
of accountability and ethical behaviour.\
	
(b)	 POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) policy
	
	
TIL is deeply committed to cultivating a work environment across all its locations that promotes mutual respect, safety, and 
harmonious professional relationships. TIL unequivocally upholds the dignity of all individuals, irrespective of gender, role, or 
hierarchical position, and expects all employees to demonstrate responsible and respectful conduct. In alignment with the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, this policy outlines a structured and 
legally compliant grievance redressal mechanism to address any complaints related to workplace harassment.
92
93
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
	
(c)	 Ethics and fairness in business – implementation of SA 8000:2014
	
	
TIL is resolute in its adherence to social responsibility and ethical business practices, and has formally adopted and certified 
for the SA 8000:2014 standard, a globally recognized certification focused on social accountability. This implementation serves 
as a testament to the TIL’s commitment to respecting international human rights norms and national labour legislation. TIL 
in compliance to SA8000:2014 standard adhere to the mandates of provision for safe working condition, fair compensation, 
non-discriminatory practices, and the absolute prohibition of forced labour, child labour, and any form of modern slavery. It also 
ensures that no employee is subjected to coercive or hazardous work environments.
	
	
Furthermore, TIL’s adherence to SA 8000:2014 ensures compliance with the four fundamental labour rights articulated under 
Article 2 of the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (1998), which include:
	
	
1.	
The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
	
	
2.	
The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour;
	
	
3.	
The effective abolition of child labour; and
	
	
4.	
The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
	
	
All concerns or suggestions arising under these frameworks are addressed through formalized redressal mechanisms, reinforcing 
the TIL’s ongoing commitment to ethical governance, workplace dignity, and social justice.
5.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Child Labour
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Wages
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Other human rights related issues
0
0
NA
2
0
NA
6.	 Complaints filed under the sexual harassment of women at workplace (prevention, 
prohibition and redressal) act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
0
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0
0
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
7.	 Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and 
harassment cases:
	
TIL has implemented a POSH Policy and No Discrimination Policy to protect the workforce from discrimination and harassment 
instances. The documentation link provided below provides more information about the policy and the process that is in place. The 
link is: https://www.tegaindustries.com/investor/#policies-tab
8.	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/
No)
	
Yes, our supplier code of conduct covers the human rights requirements which is provided to the suppliers and is duly signed and 
acknowledged by them. This takes place while initiating any business agreements and contracts with concerned service providers.
9.	 Assessments For the Year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)*  
Sexual Harassment
100
Discrimination at workplace
100
Child Labour
100
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
100
Wages
100
Other human rights related issues
100
	
* Includes only manufacturing units and corporate office of TIL.
10.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / 
concerns arising from the assessments at question 10 above.
	
Not Applicable
1.	 Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human 
rights grievances/complaints.
	
TIL is working towards business process and modified/ introduced to address the human rights grievances/ complaints, rather 
initiatives are taken proactively or on discussion with the concerned stakeholders which are employee friendly and also to make 
the working environment more conducive to dispense the responsibilities. Though there are no such complaints and grievances 
with respect to Human Rights, but as a proactive measure and in compliance to SA8000:2014 standard, necessary mandates and 
deployments pertaining to provision for safe working condition, fair compensation, non-discriminatory practices, and the absolute 
prohibition of forced labour, child labour, and any form of modern slavery has been rolled out.
2.	 Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due diligence conducted.
	
Before commencement of any new agreement or contracts, the concerned service provider are required to acknowledge the 
supplier code of conduct, which covers the human rights aspects. This code of conduct also covers framework for necessary 
assessment. Under the ambit of SA 8000: 2014 and self-assessment (Social Fingerprint) on the maturity of the organisation with 
respect to human rights issues is also done.
3.	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the 
requirements of the rights of persons with disabilities act, 2016?
	
As of now not all the operating locations are accessible to differently abled visitors, except the corporate office of TIL, which is 
located in Kolkata, India and one of the manufacturing site located in Dahej, Gujarat, India.
Leadership Indicators:
94
95
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Principle 6: Businesses Should Respect and Make Efforts to Protect and Restore 
The Environment.
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners* (by value of business 
done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
100
Discrimination at workplace
100
Child Labour
100
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
100
Wages
100
Others – please specify
-
	
 *Includes only contractors 
5.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / 
concerns arising from the assessments at question 4 above.
	
Not Applicable.
1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
FY  2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
0
0
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through
0
0
other sources (C)
0
0
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
42.72TJ
41.64 TJ
Total fuel consumption (E)
109.03 TJ
109.32 TJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed (D+E+F)
151.75  TJ
150.96 TJ
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)*
151.75 TJ
150.96 TJ
Energy intensity per rupee of  turnover
(Total energy consumed/Revenue from operations)
16,953.49 J/INR
20,487.5 J/INR
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total 
energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.35 TJ/Million  
USD
0.42 TJ/ Million 
USD^
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
0.016 TJ/MT
0.017 TJ/MT
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
*Energy Consumption figure of three manufacturing sites have been considered inclusive of electricity consumption of HO.
	
^ Computation of reporting figure has been corrected 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
	
No. We have not yet carried out an independent assessment of the above energy parameters through any external agency. 
Essential Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
2.	 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCS) 
under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme of the government of india? 
(Y/N) if yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In 
case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
	
No, TIL does not possess, operate or manage any industrial premises or operational facilities that qualify as ‘Designated Consumers’ 
(DCs) under the Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme. Hence the organization is not presently subject to any such compliance 
mandated by the PAT framework.  
3.	 Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water Withdrawal by Source#(in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
0
19,130 KL
(ii)	 Groundwater
60,333.19 KL
4,620 KL
(iii)	Third party water
39,133 KL
20,858.79 KL
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
0
NIL
(v)	 Others
0
NIL
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) ^ (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
99,466.19 KL
44,608.79 KL
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) #^
99,466.19 KL
40,584.55 KL
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / revenue from 
operations)
0.0111 L/INR
0.0055 L/ INR
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for 
PPP)
229.58 KL/ Million 
USD
112.53 KL/ Million 
USD*
Water intensity in terms of physical output
10.31 KL/MT
4.56 KL/MT
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
	
^Withdrawal and Consumption figure of three manufacturing sites have been considered
	
# Water withdrawal and consumption is not being considered for Head office of TIL.
	
* Computation of reporting figure has been corrected
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
An independent verification or assessment of the aforementioned water-related parameters by an external, third-party agency has 
not yet been undertaken.
4.	 Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 To Surface water
0
-
	
-	
No treatment
0
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment*
0
4,024.24 KL
(ii)	  To Groundwater
0
-
	
-	
No treatment
0
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
-
(iii)	To Seawater
0
-
	
-	
No treatment
0
-
	
- 	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
-
96
97
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
	
* Discharge done outside the plant premise is only accounted.
	
# Water discharge is not being considered for Head office of TIL.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
5.	 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for zero liquid discharge? If yes, provide details of 
its coverage and implementation.
	
The company has undertaken a proactive and strategic approach toward achieving Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) status across 
its operations. A series of targeted projects and technological interventions have been initiated with the objective of minimizing 
wastewater discharge and maximizing water reuse. Notably, the Dahej facility is already equipped with treatment facilities required 
for a fully functional ZLD system, demonstrating the TIL’s commitment to sustainable water management. The Dahej unit is having 
Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) and Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) systems, enabling end-to-end treatment and reuse of industrial and 
domestic wastewater streams. 
	
As part of the broader implementation strategy, all sites wherein ZLD is legally, technically and operationally applicable have been 
comprehensively identified and brought under the purview of these sustainability-driven initiatives.  
	
In parallel, the Samali facility has also been equipped with state-of-the-art, package-type STPs with a treatment capacity of 16 KLD 
(kilolitres per day). These systems are fully operational and facilitate the reuse of treated wastewater for non-potable purposes such 
as landscaping and utility cleaning. This integrated approach not only ensures regulatory compliance but also exemplifies the TIL’s 
broader commitment to responsible water stewardship and sustainable resource utilization.
6.	 Please provide details of air emissions (other than ghg emissions) by the entity, in the 
following format:
Parameter*
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
mg/Nm3
61.11 
65.90
SOx
mg/Nm3
 57.66
84.70
Particulate matter (PM)
mg/Nm3
 43.33
51.22
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others – please specify
-
-
-
	
* Emissions are only for DG Set and Boilers
	
Note :Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) if yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes, by concerned state pollution control boards.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
0
-
	
-	
No treatment
0
-
	
-	
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
0
-
(v)	 Others
0
-
	
-	
No treatment
0
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
0
4,024.24 KL
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
7.	 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, 
in the following format:
Parameter*
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
6,539.12
8,106
Total Scope 2 emissions* 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
8,627.16
8,281
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2  emissions intensity per rupee 
of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/
Revenue from operations)
Kilograms of CO2 
equivalent/INR
0.0017
0.0022
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent/Million USD
35.01
45.44^
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent/tonnes of 
Production
1.57
1.84
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-
	
 * Does not include GHG emission on account of use of refrigerants
	
^ Computation of reporting figure has been corrected
	
Note :Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) if yes, name of the external agency.
	
No. We have not yet carried out an independent assessment of the above parameters through any external agency. 
8.	 Does the entity have any project related to reducing green house gas emission? If yes, then 
provide details.
 
 
TIL has switched from carbon intensive liquid fuel to less carbon intensive gaseous fuel. This has   resulted in approximately 40% 
lesser GHG emission than the conventional one in one of the manufacturing unit based out of West Bengal
 
 
Roof top solar power unit has been installed having a emission avoidance of 600 ton/ year
 
 
Apart from the above some small initiatives are taken and under implementation having indirect tangible benefits in terms of 
GHG emission reduction.
9.	 Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste Generated (in Metric Tonnes)*
Plastic Waste (A)
9.33
24.92
E-Waste (B)
0
0.88
Bio-medical waste (C)
0
0
Construction & demolition waste (D)
0
0
Battery Waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive Waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous Waste (G).  
Used Oil, Discarded container with hazardous chemicals, Rubber Scrap
13.73
14.54
Other Non-Hazardous Waste generated (H). Specify if any (Break-up by 
composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
1,247.53
2,204.94
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)
1,270.59
2,245.28
98
99
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover. 
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)
0.14 MT/ Million INR
0.3 MT/ Million INR
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
2.93 MT/ Million USD
6.23 MT/ Million 
USD^
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
0.13
0.25
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes) *
Category of Waste
(i)	 Recycled
0
0
(ii)	 Reused
0
0
(iii)	Other recovery operations
1,249.56
0
Total
1,249.56
0
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)*
Category of Waste
(i)	 Incineration
0
4.15
(ii)	 Landfilling
8.37
0
(iii)	Other disposal operations
12.62
2,241.13
Total
20.99
2,245.282
	
* Accounted for the three manufacturing sites
	
^ Computation of reporting figure has been corrected
	
Note :Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) if yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No. We have not yet carried out an independent assessment of the above waste parameters through any external agency.
10.	Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe 
the strategy adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in 
your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
The disposal of process-related waste is carried out in strict adherence to the regulatory guidelines as prescribed by the 
respective State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), and in accordance with the terms and conditions outlined in the Combined 
Consent and Authorisation (CCA) or Consent to Operate (CTO), as well as the Hazardous Waste Authorisation granted by the 
competent authority. 
 
 
Hazardous waste is collected, stored & disposed ensuring strict regulatory compliance through SPCB-approved recyclers 
or reclaimers. 
 
 
Environmental stewardship is a core principle guiding waste disposal practices. 
 
 
The company implements targeted interventions to minimize the generation of process waste. 
 
 
The use of lead-based chemlock is being phased out. 
 
 
An environmentally benign alternative, recommended by the product manufacturer, is being adopted. 
 
 
These actions align with the company’s commitment to continual improvement and sustainable operations.
11.	If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national 
parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, 
coastal regulation zones etc.) Where environmental approvals / clearances are required.
Sl. 
No.
Location of operations/
offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval 
/ clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
TIL does not maintain any operational presence or physical infrastructure within or in proximity to ecologically sensitive or environmentally 
protected zones including but not limited to national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forested 
regions, or coastal regulation areas that would necessitate obtaining statutory environmental approvals or clearances. Consequently, this 
specific disclosure requirement is deemed inapplicable to TIL.
12.	Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year:
Name and brief details 
of project
EIA 
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes / No)
Relevant Web 
link
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
	
The industry doesn’t carry out EC (Environment Clearance) attracting projects. Hence environmental impact assessments are 
not applicable.
13.	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law / regulations / guidelines in 
india; such as the water (prevention and control of pollution) act, air (prevention and control 
of pollution) act, environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide 
details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
Sl. 
No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with 
Provide details of 
the noncompliance 
Any fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control 
boards or by courts 
Corrective action taken, if any
NA
NA
NA
NA
1.	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): Not 
applicable 
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
-
-
(ii)	 Groundwater
-
-
(iii)	Third party water
-
-
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v)	 Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
-
-
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Leadership Indicators:
100
101
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Into Surface water
-
-
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
- 	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
	
- 	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
iii)	 Into Seawater
-
-
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v)	 Others
-
-
	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
2.	 Please provide details of total scope 3 emissions* & its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter*
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
5,179.84
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Kilograms  of CO2 
equivalent/ INR
0.0006
-
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional ) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
Metric tonnes  of CO2 
equivalent/Million USD
11.96
-
	
*Scope 3 is specific to Category 4,5,7,9.
	
Category – 4 Upstream Transportation and Distribution: 
 
 
RF factor considered for GHG emission calculation
 
 
Upstream Transportation and distribution include emissions for Transportation of finished goods for which the cost is borne 
by the company.
 
 
Data specific to Samali and Kalyani Plant
	
Category – 7 Employee Commuting: 
 
 
The emission data has been calculated based on the responses received from sample employees and workers which has further 
been extrapolated to the overall strength of employees of the organisation.
	
Category – 9 Downstream Transportation and Distribution: 
 
 
RF factor considered for GHG emission calculation
 
 
Data specific to Samali and Kalyani Plant
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N). if 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
We have not yet carried out an independent assessment of the above parameters through any external agency. 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl.
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may 
be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Water Management
Installation of package type sewage treatment 
plant at Samali, West Bengal
16 KLD capacity, treating domestic waste 
water for further usage in non-potable 
purpose
2
Carbon Footprint 
reduction (Dual – Fuel 
usage)
LPG bank with vaporizer has been installed at 
Samali Plant with an LPG bank capacity of 6.8 MT
Potential to reduce GHG emission to the 
tune of 40% when being used in full potential 
and with 100% replacement of the Furnace 
Oil by LPG
3
Carbon Footprint 
reduction (Renewable)
Installation of 587 Kwp roof top solar power unit Potential CO2 reduction comes to around 
600 Ton/year approximately
3.	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at question 11 of essential indicators 
above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in 
such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
	
As none of the units of the organisation is located in ecologically sensitive areas, hence there is no aspect of any significant direct or 
indirect impact on biodiversity .  
4.	 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions 
to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / 
waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as 
per the following format: 
	
TIL has proactively initiated a range of interventions, all of which are focused on reducing the environmental impact of its operations. 
These measures are aligned with TIL's commitment to environmental sustainability and are intended to create a positive and lasting 
change. As part of this ongoing effort, TIL will now adopt a more structured approach to capture, monitor, and evaluate the tangible 
benefits derived from these initiatives. 
5.	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 
100 words / web link.
	
Disaster management framework forms an integral component of its Onsite Emergency Plans (OEP) at each operational facility. These 
plans are structured to address a wide spectrum of potential emergencies, with particular emphasis on natural calamities and disasters. 
	
TIL’s disaster management initiatives are further supported by ongoing employee training, regular drills, and strategic collaborations 
with local authorities to reinforce its commitment to business continuity and operational resilience.
6.	 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of 
the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this 
regard.
	
There has been no significant adverse environmental impact attributable to activities within its value chain (contractor, service 
provider deployed at the manufacturing location) during the reporting period. Though environmental aspect impact analysis is being 
done covering the activities of the value chain partners deployed at plant, in addition to the same, supplier code of conduct is also 
being upgraded to cover the supply chain aspect.  In addition, mechanisms shall be put in place in the organization to assess the ESG 
performance of the value chain partners. Accordingly, further actions shall be initiated on respective value chain partner.
7.	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed for environmental impacts.
	
TIL will evaluate going forward. However environmental aspect impact analysis being carried out at manufacturing unit covers 
activities carried out by the contractor/ service provider engaged at those units.
8.	 How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:
	
a.	
By the listed entity
	
b.	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners
102
103
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Principle 7: Businesses, When Engaging in Influencing Public and Regulatory Policy, 
Should Do So in a Manner That is Responsible and Transparent.
1.	 a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
TIL is associated with 5 (five) trade and industry chambers/associations.
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
Sl.
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations (State/
National)
1.
Indian Chamber of Commerce
National
2.
Indo-Australian Chamber of Commerce
National
3.
Economic Research India Pvt Ltd
National
4.
Confederation of Indian Industry
National
5.
Dahej Industries Association
State
2.	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- 
competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
-
-
-
	
Not applicable for TIL since no issues related to anti-competitive conduct of the entity arose.
1.	 Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sl. 
No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information available 
in public domain? 
(Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, if 
available
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
Essential Indicators:
Leadership Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Principle 8: Businesses Should Promote Inclusive Growth and Equitable Development.
1.	 Details of social impact assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA notification 
No
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant web 
link
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
2.	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) 
is being undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
Sl. 
No.
Name of project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of project 
affected families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid 
to PAFs in the 
FY (In INR)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers.
17.80
14.75
Directly from within India 
38.27
68.6
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
	
No such projects is currently being undertaken by TIL which would result in Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R).
3.	 Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
TIL is committed to fostering transparent and responsive stakeholder engagement and has established clearly defined channels to 
receive and address grievances or queries raised by members of the community. 
	
At the operational level, designated Human Resources (HR) and Industrial Relations (IR) representatives are available at each plant 
location to serve as the primary point of contact for any community-related matters. 
	
Moreover, for matters or for issues more of compliance-oriented nature, stakeholders may also directly reach out to Tega Industries 
Limited by contacting the Compliance Officer at compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com.
4.	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Essential Indicators:
104
105
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
5.	 Job creation in smaller towns – disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees 
or workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following 
locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2024 – 25*
FY 2023 – 24*
Rural
0
0
Semi-urban
45.09
39.4
Urban
9.11
9.6
Metropolitan
45.78
51
	
*The numbers given are based on the net salary.
	
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan)
1.	 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the 
social impact assessments (reference: question 1 of essential indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
NA
NA
NA
NA
Sl. 
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
1
West Bengal
Nadiya
INR 18,85,360
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
2.	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated 
aspirational districts as identified by government bodies:
3.	 (a)	 Do You have a Preferential Procurement Policy Where You Give Preference to Purchase From Suppliers 
Comprising Marginalized / Vulnerable Groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
Due to the typical nature of procurement this can’t be explored & adopted, hence till date there is no preferential procurement 
policy giving preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups.
	
(b)	 From Which Marginalized / Vulnerable Groups Do You Procure?
	
	
Not Applicable
	
(c)	 What Percentage of Total Procurement (By Value) Does it Constitute?
	
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA
NA
NA
4.	 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired 
by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sl. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on  
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
	
No intellectual property of Tega is based on traditional knowledge.
5.	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
	
No intellectual property of Tega is based on traditional knowledge as well as there was no adverse order in last FY in respect of 
intellectual properties of the Company.
6.	 Details of beneficiaries of CSR projects:
Sl. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from 
vulnerable and marginalized 
groups*
1
Alindra Primary School
355
100
2
Autism Society West Bengal 
769
100
3
Disha India Education Trust
163
100
4
Govt. Higher Primary School
97
100
5
Govt. Lower Primary School Purasanahali
21
100
6
Gram Samriddhi 
68
100
7
ITI Vagra
225
100
8
Joypul Nandanik Shikshayatan
279
100
9
Kanyapur High School
828
100
10
Katakhali Swapnopuron Welfare Society
858
100
11
Middle School Panchmahali
109
100
12
Nabapally Primary School
126
100
13
Oriental Seminary School
540
100
14
Pannalal Institution
1,652
100
15
Paschim Bangla Andha Aloke Samity (Blind School)
51
100
16
Rajkiya Uchch Prathimik Vidyalaya
111
100
17
Rotary Shishu Shiksha Niketan
191
100
18
Samali Free Primary School
168
100
19
Samali Molla Ghosh Para FP School
125
100
20
Samskriti Shreyaskar (Kathak Dance)
20
100
21
Shri Premji Jetha Cheeda Janta Vidyalaya
650
100
22
Swachhatapukare Foundation
58
100
106
107
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Principle 9: Businesses Should Engage with and Provide Value to Their Consumers 
in a Responsible Manner.
1.	 Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and 
feedback: 
	
In the event of a product-related issue, the respective Branch or Product Manufacturing Group (PMG) initiates a Product Problem 
Report (PPR) within the Tega Apps system on behalf of the customer. This serves to escalate the concern by submitting a structured 
report, containing detailed information, to the Customer Complaints Manager (CCM). Upon receipt of the PPR, a preliminary 
evaluation is conducted to determine whether a Free Replacement Order (FRO) is warranted. If deemed necessary, the FRO is 
promptly approved and actioned by the relevant department. 
	
Subsequently, documentation from various functional units including PMG, Technical Sales Services (TSS), Drafting and Design, 
Manufacturing, Quality Assurance, and the Branch (particularly in installation-related cases) is consolidated to facilitate a 
comprehensive case review. A Root Cause Analysis (RCA) is then conducted in collaboration with all concerned departments to 
identify the underlying cause of the issue. 
	
Following the RCA, suitable and effective corrective and containment measures are identified and uploaded into the system, clearly 
assigning responsibility to the respective department. This marks the conclusion of the Customer Complaints Management (CCM) 
phase of the Product Problem Report (PPR) process. 
	
To ensure long-term resolution and continuous improvement, the CCM team subsequently reviews and audits the implementation 
and effectiveness of the Corrective and Preventive Actions (CAPA), thereby evaluating the sustainability of the corrective 
measures adopted.
2.	 Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of  turnover from all products/services that 
carry information about:
As a percentage of total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%
3.	 Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
Remarks
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at  the end of 
year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Data Privacy
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Advertising
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Cyber-security
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Delivery of essential services
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Restrictive trade practices
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Unfair trade practices
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Others
109
20
NA
74
38
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
Essential Indicators:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
4.	 Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reason for Recall
Forced Recall
0 
NA
Voluntary Recall
0
NA
	
* NA indicates Not Applicable
5.	 Does the entity have a framework / policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? 
(Yes/No) if available, provide a web-link of the policy. 
	
Yes, TIL has an IT policy and an IT Security policy in place to address risks related to data security and privacy. Both policies are 
managed internally and are currently under review. They will be available on the Intranet by March 2025. Additionally, our Data 
Privacy and Cookie Policy can be accessed on the company website.
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, 
and delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence 
of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of 
products / services.
	
The disclosure is not applicable for TIL since no issues pertaining to the above mentioned parameters arouse in the FY 2024-25.
7.	 Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches
	
	
There were no recorded instances of data breaches during the fiscal year 24/25.
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
	
As there have been no instances of data breaches, the status is marked as “Not Applicable” (NA).
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
	
Since there is no case of data breach therefore it is Not applicable.
1.	 Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be 
accessed (provide web link, if available):
	
Yes, the TIL website comprises of information on products and services of the entity in the segment “Our Offerings”. Weblink: https://
www.tegaindustries.com/   
2.	 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products 
and/or services:
	
TIL provides comprehensive instructions, warnings, and safety precautions in our installation manuals to guide proper usage and 
prevent mishandling. Additionally, we conduct periodic wear measurements and monitor the condition of the lining throughout its 
lifecycle. Based on this data, we prepare detailed health reports and proactively recommend liner change-outs to ensure continued 
performance, safety, and reliability.
3.	 Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of 
essential services.
	
Customers are notified through emails, calls, and direct engagement by our service teams. We also provide timely updates, alternate 
solutions, and necessary support to minimize operational impact and ensure business continuity.
Leadership Indicators:
108
109
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
4.	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated 
as per local laws? (Yes / No / Not applicable) if yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity 
carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / 
services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? 
(Yes / No)
	
Yes, TIL conducts regular customer satisfaction surveys across key geographies to gather feedback on product performance, service 
quality, and customer support. The insights are used to drive continuous improvement initiatives.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE II
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO 
A. Conservation of Energy 
a)	
Energy Conservation Measures Taken: Energy conservation 
measures like inclusion of cleaner fuel, and renewable energy 
done during the year. Roof top solar power unit of 587 kWp 
capacity has been installed in the plant at Samali, West Bengal. 
b)	
Additional Investments and Proposals for Reduction of 
Consumption of Energy: Plant efficiency improvement 
initiatives and introduction of renewables are made to 
reduce grid power consumption. Power Purchase Agreement 
(PPA) has been signed for solar power installation in the plant 
at Kalyani, West Bengal.
c)	
Shifted from LDO to LPG fired Boiler operation at Samali 
and Kalyani Plant.
d)	
Impact of the above measures: The above measures 
have reduced energy consumption and thereby reducing 
carbon footprint.
e)	
Total energy consumption and energy consumption per unit 
of production - 
	
Total energy Consumed: 151.75 TJ
	
Energy Consumption per unit of production: 0.016 TJ/MT 
B.	Technology Absorption: 
	
Efforts made in technology absorption are as follows-
	
Research & Development (R & D)
	
1.	 Specific areas in which R&D carried 
out by the Company 
	
a)	
Development of Self-Adjusting Skirt Sealing system 
for conveyors to ensure continuous contact, reduce 
spillage and eliminate manual adjustments. 
	
b)	
Development of a signal transfer process using sensors 
and IoT for wear measurement of screen panels via 
Bluetooth and GPRS-enabled web application.
	
c)	
Innovation in screening panel arrangements for quick 
and proprietary installations that also generate long-
term spare part business. 
	
d)	
IoT-based Conveyor Belt Sway Monitoring System 
for real-time sway tracking to prevent accidents and 
unscheduled downtime.
	
e)	
Second (2nd) and Third (3rd) generation Mill Wear 
Sensors developed with improved impact resistance, 
water/dust insulation, and wireless data transmission.
	
f)	
Redesigned products for reduced environmental impact 
via segregated-at-source design:
 
 
Segmented Skirt Sealing System for minimised 
throwaway weight,
 
 
Aggression Wear Liner and Mill Liner with 
Polymer Lining and 
 
 
Reusable Reinforcement – both aimed at 
recyclability and reusability of components;
 
 
DynaGreenTM concept implemented for separating 
steel and rubber from mill liners post-life, with a 
pilot plant operational in Santiago, Chile;
 
 
Screening Panel with Replaceable Functional 
Section enabling separation of polymer and 
reinforcement components (Patent Applied).
	
2.	 Benefits derived as a result of the 
above R & D 
	
a)	
Reduction in manual intervention, downtime and 
production loss;
	
b)	
Substitution of imported monitoring and wear 
detection technologies;
	
c)	
Improvement in worker safety and workplace 
conditions, supporting ESG goals;
	
d)	
Reduction in environmental impact through lower 
scrap generation and improved recyclability;
	
e)	
Enhancement in predictive maintenance capabilities and 
application-specific product design;
	
f)	
Increase in spare part business due to proprietary 
fixing solutions.
110
111
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
	
3.	 Future Plan of Action 
	
a)	
Advancement of next-gen sensors with increased 
wireless capability and faster data transmission;
	
b)	
Scaling the DynaGreenTM process for commercial use 
across more locations;
	
c)	
Continued development of modular, reusable and 
recyclable components for broader product categories.
	
4.	 Expenditure on Research & Development: 
H 68.52 Million
	
Technology Absorption, Adaptation 
And Innovation
	
1.	
Efforts made: Tega Industries Limited has continued to 
advance the development of patented and proprietary 
solutions in the areas of wear monitoring, real-time 
data transmission, modular component design, and 
ESG-aligned product lifecycle management.
	
2.	 Benefit derived as a result of above 
efforts: 
	
a)	
Expansion of application areas and product portfolio.
	
b)	
Improved product performance, service life and 
sustainability.
	
c)	
Enhanced 
operational 
efficiency 
and 
cost 
reduction for customers.
	
3.	 The Company has not imported any 
technology.
C.	Total Foreign Exchange Used 
and Earned During the FY 
2024-25
(H in Million)
Foreign Exchange earned in terms of 
actual inflows
6,324.48
Foreign Exchange outgo in terms of 
actual outflows
2,563.25
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
	
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Place: Kolkata 	
Chairman
Date:	 May 15, 2025 	
DIN: 00049388
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE III
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
(CSR) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014]
1.	 Brief Outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
The Company has framed a CSR Policy in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and the same is placed on the Company’s website and the web link for the same 
is: https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/corporate_social_responsibility_policy.pdf
	
The CSR Policy outlines the Company’s approach to CSR, CSR thrust areas, role of CSR Committee, CSR Reporting mechanism, 
amongst others. At the Company, CSR has effectively evolved from being engaged in passive philanthropy to corporate investments, 
which takes the form of a social partnership initiative creating value for stakeholders. The Company’s CSR activities build an important 
bridge between business operations and social commitment evolving into an integral part of business functions, goals and strategy.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee (as on March 31, 2025):
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the year
1.
Madhu Dubhashi
Chairperson & Independent Director
2
2
2.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Independent Director
2
2
3.
Mehul Mohanka
Managing Director
2
2
4.
Anand Sen*
Independent Director
NA
NIL
	
* Anand Sen was inducted as a member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with effect from November 14, 2024, consequent to his appointment as 
Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Independent). 
	
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
3.	 Web-Link Where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy 
and CSR Projects Approved by the Board are Disclosed on the 
Website of the Company:
	
(i)	
Composition of CSR committee – https://www.tegaindustries.com/investor/#corporate-governance
	
(ii)	
CSR Policy – https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/corporate_social_responsibility_policy.pdf
	
(iii)	 CSR projects approved by the board – https://www.tegaindustries.com/csr-overview/ 
4.	 Executive Summary Along with Web-Link(s) of Impact Assessment 
of CSR Projects Carried Out in Pursuance of Sub-Rule (3) of 
Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, if Applicable – Not Applicable.
112
113
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
5.	 (A)	Average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135 – H 130,98,88,458
	
(B)	 Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135(5) –  
H 2,61,97,769.16
	
(C)	Surplus arising out of the csr projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years 
– Nil
	
(D)	Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any - nil
	
(E)	 Total csr obligation for the financial year [(b)+ (c) – (d)] - H 2,61,97,769.16
	
	
(Details attached as annexure – a)
6.	 (a)	 Amount Spent on CSR Projects (Both Ongoing Project and Other than Ongoing Project):  
J 2,52,89,778.07
	
(b)	 Amount Spent in Administrative overheads: J 10,50,000
	
(c)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not Applicable
	
(d)	 Total Amount Spent for the Financial Year [(a) + (b) + (c)]: J 2,63,39,778.07
	
(e)	 CSR Amount Spent or Unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year 
(in J)
Amount Unspent (in J)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of 
transfer
2,63,39,778.07
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
(f)	 Excess Amount For Set off, if any – Not applicable
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (in J)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
2,61,97,769.16
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
2,63,39,778.07
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii) – (i)]
1,42,008.91
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial 
Years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii) – (iv)]
Nil
	
	
Note: As per the advice of the Board, surplus or excess amount of H 1,42,008.91 arising out of CSR contribution for the 
Financial Year 2024-25 will not be carried forward to the succeeding financial year considering the projects include that of 
promoting education.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under section 
135 (6)  
(in J)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under section 
135 (6)  
(in J)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year  
(in J)
Amount transferred 
to any fund specified 
under Schedule 
VII as per section 
135(6), if any.
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial 
years (in J)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in J)
Date of 
transfer
1.
FY 2023-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2.
FY 2022-23
21,50,000
-
21,50,000
-
-
-
-
3.
FY 2021-22
38,00,000
-
38,00,000
-
-
-
-
7.	 Details of Unspent CSR Amount for the Preceding Three Financial 
Years:
8.	 Whether any Capital Assets have been Created or Acquired 
Through Corporate Social Responsibility Amount Spent in the 
Financial Year: No, since assets are not in the books of the Company.
	
If yes, enter the number of capital assets created/acquired: Not applicable.
	
Furnish the Details Relating to Such Asset (s) so Created or Acquired through 
Corporate Social Responsibility Amount Spent in the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
Details of entity/authority/beneficiary of 
the registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number
Name
Registered 
Address
Not Applicable
9.	 Specify the Reason(s), if the Company has Failed to Spend two 
Percent of the Average Net Profit as Per Section 135(5): Not Applicable.
For and on behalf of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
	
Madhu Dubhashi	
Mehul Mohanka
Place: Kolkata	
DIN: 00036846	
DIN: 00052134
Date: May 15, 2025	
Chairperson of the CSR Committee	
Managing Director & Group CEO
114
115
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNEXURE - A
Details of CSR Amount Spent Against Ongoing Projects for the 
Financial Year
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
project
Project 
duration 
(Years)
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project  
(in J)
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project  
(in J)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation 
- Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
1
Promoting 
Education
Cl (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Haryana
Karnal
4
40,00,000
66,64,000
No
Disha India 
Education 
Trust
CSR00018963
2
Promoting 
Education
Cl (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
South 24 
Parganas
4
18,00,000
18,00,000
No
Katakhali 
Swapnopuron 
Welfare 
Society
CSR00000352
Total
58,00,000
84,64,000
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
Project
Amount 
spent for 
the project  
(in J)
Mode of 
implementation 
- Direct  
(Yes/No)
Mode of implementation - 
Through implementing agency.
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
1
Samali FP School- 
Samali
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
Kolkata
25,95,044
Yes
-
-
2
Samali Molla 
Gosh Para Free 
Primary School- 
Samali
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
Kolkata
16,26,901
Yes
-
-
3
Pannalal Institute, 
Kalyani
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
Nadia
6,33,360
Yes
-
-
4
Paschim Banga 
Andha Aloke 
Samity (Blind 
School), Kalyani
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education 
among 
differently 
abled
Yes
West 
Bengal
Nadia
52,000
Yes
-
-
5
Women 
Empowerment- 
Water Hyacinth 
Value Chain 
Development 
Project
Clause (iv) 
Ensuring 
environment 
sustainability
Yes
West 
Bengal
Nadia
12,00,000
No
Swachhatapukare 
Foundation, 
Kalyani
CSR00053595
6
ITI Vagra, Dahej
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Gujarat
Bharuch
20,10,231
Yes
-
-
Details of CSR Amount Spent Against Other than On going Projects 
for the Financial Year
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
Project
Amount 
spent for 
the project  
(in J)
Mode of 
implementation 
- Direct  
(Yes/No)
Mode of implementation - 
Through implementing agency.
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
7
Shri Premji Jetha 
Cheeda Janta 
Vidyalaya, Dahej
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Gujarat
Bharuch
5,00,000
No
Dahej Vibhag 
Kelvani Mandal
CSR00046050
8
Kanyapur High 
School,  Asansol
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
Asansol
4,40,541
Yes
-
-
9
Panchmohali 
Middle School, 
Kumardubi
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Jharkhand
Dhanbad
12,00,000
Yes
-
-
10
Government 
Higher Primary 
School, 
Nosagere, Malur
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Karnataka
Kolar
 4,36,128
Yes
-
-
11
Purasanahalli 
Govt Primary 
School, Malur
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Karnataka
Kolar
 1,09,032
Yes
-
-
12
Govt. Primary 
School of Alindra 
village
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Gujarat
Vadodara
5,75,840
Yes
-
-
13
Joypul Nandanik 
Shikshayatan
Clause (i) 
Promoting 
healthcare 
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
North 24 
Parganas
10,52,518
No
Rotary Club 
of Calcutta 
Metropolitan
CSR00000054
14
Rotary Sarada 
Shishu Shiksha
Clause (i) 
Promoting 
healthcare 
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
North 24 
Parganas
9,88,610
No
Rotary Club 
of Calcutta 
Metropolitan
CSR00000054
15
Nabapally 
Primary School
Clause (i) 
Promoting 
healthcare 
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
North 24 
Parganas
6,76,693
No
Rotary Club 
of Calcutta 
Metropolitan
CSR00000054
16
Support Classical 
Art - Kathak 
Dance Academy
Clause (v) 
Protection 
and 
promotion 
of Art and 
Culture
Yes
West 
Bengal
Kolkata
2,74,000
No
Samskritiki 
Shreyaskar 
(Kathak)
 CSR00072918
17
Promoting 
special education 
and healthcare
Clause (i) 
Promoting 
healthcare 
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
Kolkata
2,60,000
No
Autism Society 
West Bengal
CSR00015316
116
117
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
Project
Amount 
spent for 
the project  
(in J)
Mode of 
implementation 
- Direct  
(Yes/No)
Mode of implementation - 
Through implementing agency.
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
18
Rajkiya Uchch 
Prathmik 
Vidyalaya
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
Rajasthan
Jhunjhunu
38,335
Yes
-
-
19
Tree Plantation 
and Pond 
Renovation
Clause (iv) 
Ensuring 
environment 
sustainability
Yes
West 
Bengal
South 24 
Parganas
5,00,000
No
Gram Samriddhi 
Foundation
CSR00083109
20
Army Welfare
Clause (vi) 
Measures for 
the benefit of 
armed forces 
veterans
Yes
New 
Delhi
New 
Delhi
15,00,000
No
Army Welfare 
CSR Fund
CSR00028390
21
Oriental 
Seminary
Clause (ii) 
Promoting 
education
Yes
West 
Bengal
Kolkata
1,56,545
Yes
-
-
Total
1,68,25,778
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE IV
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 
2013 READ WITH RULE 5(1) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND 
REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
i.	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Designation
Remuneration 
(J)*
Median 
Remuneration of 
employees (J)
Ratio 
(In times)
1
Mehul Mohanka
Managing Director & 
Group CEO
53,172,547
4,94,790
107
2
Madan Mohan Mohanka**
Chairman & Non-
Executive Director
54,216,580
110
3
Syed Yaver Imam***
Non-Executive Director
38,25,954
8
4
Madhu Dubhashi
Independent Director
15,00,000
3
5
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
Independent Director
25,00,000
5
6
Ashwani Maheshwari
Independent Director
15,00,000
3
7
Anand Sen****
Independent Director
5,62,000
1
	
Notes: *Remuneration is based on salary, flexi/Variable pay, reimbursements, PF and SAF.
	
**Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka, Chairman & Whole time Director was redesignated as Chairman & Non-Executive Non-Independent Director with effect from February 
01, 2025. Remuneration was paid to him as Executive Director for the period April 01, 2024, - January 31, 2025, and as Non-Executive Director for the period February 
01, 2025 - March 31, 2025.
	
***On completion of his term as Executive Director, on May 31, 2024, Mr. Syed Yaver Imam, stepped down and was appointed as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
with effect from June 01, 2024. The above remuneration includes payment made to him as Executive Director and the Commission paid to him as Non-Executive Director 
during the Financial Year 2024-25. 
	
****Mr. Anand Sen was appointed as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director with effect from November 14, 2024.
	
The remuneration paid to Independent Directors includes only Commission paid during the Financial Year 2024-25.
ii.	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary or 
Manager, if any, in the Financial Year 2024-25:
Sl. 
No.
Name
Designation
Remuneration 
of Previous 
year* (J)
Remuneration 
of Current 
year* (J)
% Increase/ 
(Decrease)
FY23-24
FY24-25
1
Mehul Mohanka
Managing Director & Group CEO
5,70,32,446
5,31,72,547
See Note#
2
Madan Mohan Mohanka**
Chairman & Non-Executive 
Director
5,72,73,192
5,42,16,580
N.A##
3
Syed Yaver Imam***
Non - Executive Director
2,46,00,361
38,25,954
N.A##
4
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
Chief Financial Officer
86,42,418
1,61,29,816
N.A##
5
Manjuree Rai
Company Secretary
40,59,470
53,02,117
See Note#
	
Note:
	
*Remuneration is based on salary, flexi/Variable pay, reimbursements, PF and SAF.
	
**Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka, Chairman & Whole time Director was redesignated as Chairman & Non-Executive Non-Independent Director with effect from February 
01, 2025. Remuneration was paid to him as Executive Director for the period April 01, 2024, - January 31, 2025, and as Non-Executive Director for the period February 
01, 2025 - March 31, 2025.
	
***On completion of his term as Executive Director, on May 31, 2024, Mr. Syed Yaver Imam, stepped down and was appointed as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
with effect from June 01, 2024. The above remuneration includes payment made to him as Executive Director and the Commission paid to him as Non-Executive Director 
during the Financial Year 2024-25
118
119
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
	
# Percentage increase as recommended by Nomination & Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
	
## Since the remuneration of these Directors/KMPs is for part of the year or part of the previous year, percentage increase/decrease in remuneration over previous year 
is not comparable.
iii.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the Financial Year 2024-25:
Median remuneration of previous year (J)
Median remuneration of current year (J)
% increase
453,938
4,94,790
9%
iv.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company:
	
There were 709 employees as on March 31, 2025.
v.	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year 
and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Average % increase
1
Increase in salary of Managerial Personnel
5%
2
Increase in salary of employee (other than Managerial Personnel)
12%
vi.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: It is affirmed that the remuneration paid to 
the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company. 
	
On behalf of the Board of Directors
	
Sd/-
	
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Place: Kolkata	
Chairman 
Date: May 15, 2025	
DIN: 00049388
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE V
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Company’s Philosophy on Code 
of Governance
Your Company has a robust framework of Corporate Governance 
driven by compliance with various statutory and non-statutory 
legislations, guidelines and framework. The governance structure 
at your Company has been designed to ensure transparency, 
ethical conduct and accountability amongst all the stakeholders. 
Essentially, Corporate Governance encompasses a set of 
systems, rules, practices and processes by which a company is 
directed and controlled. The essence of Corporate Governance 
lies in promoting and maintaining integrity, accountability and 
transparency in all transactions in the widest sense. It is the 
creation and enhancement of long-term sustainable value for 
the stakeholders, comprising regulators, employees, customers, 
vendors, investors and the society at large, through ethically driven 
business practices. Effective Corporate Governance practices 
constitute the strong foundation on which successful commercial 
enterprises are built to last. Corporate Governance also provides 
the framework for attaining a company's objectives, it extends to 
nearly every aspect of management, from action plans and internal 
controls to performance measurement and corporate disclosure. 
The Corporate Governance framework of your Company 
ensures that it evolves and follows not just the stated Corporate 
Governance guidelines, but also globally best practices.  Your 
Company is equipped with a robust framework that considers 
the long-term interest of every stakeholder by ensuring timely 
disclosure of adequate and accurate information regarding its 
financials and overall performance, as well as the leadership and 
governance of the Company. The Company also has an adequate 
system of control in place to ensure that the executive decisions 
taken should result in optimum growth and development which is 
in the best interest of all the stakeholders.
Your Company aims to increase and sustain its corporate values 
through growth and innovation. The cardinal principles such 
as independence, accountability, responsibility, transparency, 
fair and timely disclosures, credibility, sustainability, etc. serve 
as the means for implementing the philosophy of Corporate 
Governance in true sense.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors (“Board”) are entrusted with the ultimate 
responsibility of cultural, ethical, sustainable and accountable 
growth of the Company and have been vested with the requisite 
powers, authorities and duties. The Board provides strategic 
guidance to the Company and exercises appropriate control 
to ensure that the Company is managed in a manner that fulfils 
stakeholders' aspirations.
The Board of the Company has an optimum combination of 
Executive, Non – Executive and Independent Directors with at least 
one-Woman Independent Director, having requisite knowledge 
and expertise in business & industry, corporate finance, taxation, 
legal matters, risk management and marketing. The composition 
of the Board is in conformity with the requirements of Section 
149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (as amended) (the “Act”) and 
Regulation 17(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”). As on March 31, 2025, the Board 
comprised of 7 (Seven) Directors, out of which 1 (One) Director 
is Executive Director, 4 (Four) Directors are Non-Executive 
Independent Directors including 1 (One) Woman Independent 
Director and 2 (Two) Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors. 
More than 50% (fifty per cent) of the Board comprised of 
Independent Directors.
During the year under review, certain changes took place in the 
constitution of the Board, the term of Mr. Syed Yaver Imam (DIN: 
00588381) as a Whole time Director came to an end on May 31, 
2024. Subsequently, he was appointed as an Additional Director 
(Category: Non-Executive Non-Independent) by the Board of 
Directors based on the recommendation of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee with effect from June 01, 2024 
and his appointment was approved by the members at the 48th 
Annual General Meeting held on August 20, 2024. Mr. Anand Sen 
(DIN: 00237914) was appointed as an Additional Director (Category: 
Non-Executive Independent) by the Board of Directors based on the 
recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years with effect from November 
14, 2024. Thereafter, the members of the Company through Postal 
Ballot dated January 26, 2025, approved his appointment. Mr. Madan 
Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388), Chairman and Whole time 
Director of the Company, expressed his intention to relinquish 
his position as Whole time Director of the Company with effect 
from January 31, 2025. Accordingly, the Board of Directors based 
on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee at its meeting held on December 19, 2024, approved the 
re-designation of Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka as Chairman and 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company with 
effect from February 01, 2025. Thereafter, the members of the 
Company through Postal Ballot dated January 26, 2025, approved 
his re-designation. 
120
121
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
The composition and category of the Board of Directors as on March 31, 2025, the number of Committees of which a director is 
a Member/Chairperson and the attendance of each Director at the Board Meetings and the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the 
Company held during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
Name of the Directors 
and Category
No. of membership 
on Board committees 
including the 
Company^
No. of 
chairmanship on 
Board committees 
including the 
Company^
No. of Board 
meetings 
entitled to 
attend
No. of Board 
meetings 
attended during 
the FY 2024-25
Attendance at 
last AGM held 
on 20.08.2024
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka  
Promoter  
Chairman and Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
DIN: 00049388
0
0
7
7
Yes
Mr. Mehul Mohanka               
Promoter
Managing Director & Group 
CEO
DIN: 00052134
1
0
7
7
Yes
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam            
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director   
DIN: 00588381 
1
0
7
7
Yes
Mr. Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha    
Non – Executive  
Independent Director 
DIN: 02345086
1
0
7
7
Yes
Mrs. Madhu Dubhashi 
Non – Executive  
Independent Director
DIN: 00036846
6
4
7
7
Yes
Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari
Non – Executive  
Independent Director
DIN: 07341295
2
1
7
7
Yes
Mr. Anand Sen$
Non – Executive  
Independent Director
DIN: 00237914
4
1
3
3
NA
The Committee positions are based on the latest disclosures received by the Company.
^Only membership/ chairmanship of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Indian public limited companies have been considered.
During the year under review, Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388), who was liable to retire by rotation, was re-appointed as 
Director of the Company.
The Independent Directors of the Company have confirmed that they meet the criteria for “independence” and “eligibility” as prescribed 
under the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 149 of the Act and in the opinion of the Board, the independent directors of the Company 
fulfill the conditions specified under the SEBI Listing Regulations and are independent of the management. 
Disclosures regarding re-appointment of the Director have been furnished in the Notice convening the 49th Annual General Meeting of 
the Company, which forms part of the Annual Report.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
During the year under review, none of the Independent Directors have resigned. As required under Para C of Schedule V to the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, based on the latest disclosures received by the Company, following are the number of other directorships and the 
names of the listed entities where the directors of the Company are also a director and the category of their directorships therein as on 
March 31, 2025:
Name of the Directors
No. of Directorships@
Directorships and its category in listed entities
Madan Mohan Mohanka
5
NIL
Mehul Mohanka
4
NIL
Syed Yaver Imam
1
NIL
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
0 
NIL
Madhu Dubhashi
5
1.	 Clean Science and Technology Limited - Independent Director
2.	 Pudumjee Paper Products Limited - Independent Director
3.	 Sanghvi Movers Limited - Independent Director
 Ashwani Maheshwari
1
NIL
 Anand Sen
2
1.	 The Sandur Manganese and Iron Ores Limited –Director
2.	 John Cockerill India Limited - Independent Director
@Excludes memberships of the managing committee of various chambers/bodies, directorships in private limited companies, foreign companies, companies registered under 
Section 8 of the Act and alternate directorships.
Based on the disclosures received from the Directors, none of the 
directors hold Directorships in more than 20 (twenty) companies 
of which Directorships in public companies does not exceed 10 
(ten) in line with the provisions of Section 165 of the Act. Further, 
no Director holds Directorship in more than 7 (seven) listed 
Companies as per SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The Company has in place a Directors’ and Officers’ Liability 
Insurance Policy which covers those who serve as a Director, 
Officer or equivalent of subsidiaries/joint venture. The Company 
has also provided an insurance cover in respect of legal action 
against its Directors and Officers under this policy.
None of the directors on the Board is a member of more than 10 
(ten) committees or Chairperson of more than 5 (five) committees, 
reckoned in terms of Regulation 26 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
None of the directors is an Independent Director in more than 
7 (seven) listed companies and where he is serving as a Whole 
time director/managing director in any listed company, does not 
hold such position in more than 3 (three) listed Companies.
As on March 31, 2025, Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388), 
Chairman and Non – Executive Non – Independent Director and 
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam (DIN: 00588381), Non - Executive Non - 
Independent Director held 53,48,502 shares and 29,510 shares 
respectively. No other Non-Executive Directors held any shares 
in the Company.  
None of the Directors of the Company are related to each other 
and there are no inter-se relationships between the Directors 
except Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka and Mr. Mehul Mohanka (being 
father and son respectively).
Sl. 
No.
Date of Board Meetings
Board Strength  
(No. of Directors)
No. of Directors 
Present
No. of Independent 
Directors Present
1.
23-05-2024
6
6
3
2.
16-07-2024
6
6
3
3.
08-08-2024
6
6
3
4.
14-11-2024
6
6
3
5.
19-12-2024
7
7
4
6.
05-02-2025
7
7
4
7.
28-02-2025
7
7
4
During the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 7 (seven) Board meetings were held. Time gap between any two consecutive board 
meetings did not exceed 120 days during the Financial Year 2024-25. In case of urgency, resolutions were also passed by the Board of 
Directors and Committee members vide circulation. Video Conferencing facility was offered to facilitate Directors to participate in the 
Meetings. The details of the Board Meetings held during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
122
123
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Name of Director
Skills/expertise/competencies
Business & 
Industry
Financial 
Expertise
Governance & 
Compliance
Technology
Strategic 
Expertise
Behavioural
Madan Mohan Mohanka
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Mehul Mohanka
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Syed Yaver Imam
Y
-
Y
Y
Y
Y
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Madhu Dubhashi
-
Y
Y
-
Y
Y
Ashwani Maheshwari
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Anand Sen
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Skills/Expertise/Competencies
Details
Business & Industry
Domain Knowledge in Business and understanding of business environment, Optimising the 
development in the industry for improving Company’s business.
Financial Expertise
Financial and risk management, Internal control, Experience of complex financial reporting processes, 
taxation, Capital allocation, resource utilisation, Understanding of Financial policies and accounting 
statement and assessing economic conditions.
Governance & Compliance
Experience in developing governance practices, serving the best interests of all stakeholders, 
maintaining board and management accountability, building long term effective stakeholder 
engagements and driving corporate ethics and values.
Technology
Knowledge in anticipating technological trends, innovations and techniques to create new business 
models.
Strategic Expertise
Potential to understand, critically examine and review business strategies including mergers, 
acquisitions and other business combinations/ restructuring.
Behavioural
Fulfilling a director’s duties and responsibilities, acting ethically and morally, actively contributing 
towards wellbeing of the organization, collaborative, performance oriented, putting the organisation’s 
interest in priority before personal interests and professional.
Board Procedure
The Board has devised a proper system to ensure compliance with 
the provisions of all applicable laws and periodically reviewed the 
compliance reports of all laws applicable to the Company. 
The Board meets at least once a quarter to review the quarterly 
business and the financial performance of the Company. The Board 
Meetings are generally scheduled well in advance and the notice of 
each Board Meeting is given to each Director. The Board papers, 
comprising the agenda backed by comprehensive background 
information are circulated to the Directors in advance and in 
exceptional cases, the same is tabled at the Board Meeting. The 
Board is also free to recommend the inclusion of any matter 
for discussion in consultation with the Chairman. The Company 
uses Convene board application as a tool to digitize, streamline 
and automate the meetings of the board and the committees to 
ensure meetings’ productivity, efficiency, experience, convenience, 
transparency and high standards of compliance and governance. 
The Board’s function is not limited to matters requiring statutorily 
the Board’s approval. The Board is involved in all the important 
decisions relating to the Company including policy matters, 
strategic business plans, new avenues of investment and expansion, 
compliance with statutory/regulatory requirements.  Major 
accounting provisions and write-offs are considered by the Board. 
The Minutes of Audit Committee and other Committees of the 
Board are regularly placed before the Board. 
Draft minutes of the meetings of the Board and all the Committees 
are circulated to all the Directors/Committee Members and are 
finalised after incorporating their comments received, if any. 
The Governance processes in the Company includes an effective 
post meeting follow-up, review and reporting process for action 
taken/pending on decisions of the Board and the Board Committees.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, information as per Part A of 
Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations have been placed before the 
Board for its consideration.
Core Skills / Expertise / Competencies 
available with the Board of Directors of 
the Company
In pursuance of Para C (2), Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Board of Directors of the Company have identified the 
following core skills/ expertise/competencies that are desirable for 
the Company to function effectively in the context of the business 
of the Company:
The Board of the Company comprises of qualified members who possess required skills, expertise and competencies (as given below) that 
allow them to make effective contributions to the Board and its Committees.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Board Training and Familiarisation 
Programme
In terms of Regulation 25 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Company is required to conduct various programmes for the 
Independent Directors of the Company to familiarise them with 
their roles, rights, responsibilities in the Company, nature of the 
industry in which the Company operates, business model of 
the Company, etc.
All the Directors inducted to the Board are introduced to the 
Company’s culture through orientation sessions. Executive 
Directors and Senior Management provide an overview of 
operations and familiarise the Non-Executive Directors on matters 
related to the Company’s values and commitments.
As a part of ongoing training, the Company schedules quarterly 
meetings of business and functional heads with the Independent 
Directors. During these meetings, comprehensive presentations 
are made on various aspects such as business models, new business 
strategies and initiatives by business leaders, risk minimization 
procedures, recent trends in technology, changes in domestic/
overseas industry scenario and regulatory regime affecting the 
Company globally. These meetings also facilitate Independent 
Directors to provide their inputs and suggestions on various 
strategic and operational matters directly to the business and 
functional heads.
During the year under review, training/session regarding policies 
and procedures of the Company with respect to business ethics 
and values was also organised for the Board of Directors. The 
Directors were also updated on amendments of the existing 
guidelines and were given introduction to new guidelines and 
provisions of the SEBI Regulations applicable for Listed Entities.
The details of such programmes for familiarisation of the 
Independent Directors is accessible on the website of the 
Company at the following web-link: https://www.tegaindustries.
com/images/articles/pdf/Familiarization-Programme-for-
Independent-Directors.pdf.
Independent 
Directors’ 
Separate 
Meeting
Schedule IV of the Act i.e. Code for Independent Directors and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations mandates the Independent Directors 
of the Company to hold at least one meeting in every financial year, 
without the presence of non-independent directors and members 
of the management. During the year ended March 31, 2025, a 
separate meeting of the Independent Directors was held on March 
26, 2025, inter alia, to review performance of Non-Independent 
Directors & the Board as a whole; to review performance of the 
Chairman of the Company and to assess the quality, quantity and 
timeliness of flow of information between the management of the 
Company and the Board and its Committees which is necessary 
to effectively and reasonably perform and discharge their duties.
Code of Conduct
Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations requires every 
listed company to have a Code of Conduct for its directors and 
Senior Management. The Board of the Company has adopted 
the Code of Conduct for its Directors and Senior Management. 
The said Code has been communicated to the Directors and the 
Senior Management Personnel and the same is available on the 
website of the Company at the following web-link: https://www.
tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/code_of_conduct_for_all_
members_of_the_board_and_senior_management_.pdf.
The Code is in alignment with the Company’s objectives, and 
Corporate Governance policy and aims at enhancing an ethical 
transparent process in managing the affairs of the Company.
All the Directors and Senior Management Personnel have 
affirmed compliance with the Code for the Financial Year 2024-
25. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director is 
annexed to this Report.
Board Committees
The Board has constituted various committees consisting of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors of the Company to meet various 
mandatory requirements of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations as 
well as to perform other critical functions. Currently, the Board has 5 
(five) committees, viz., Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee and Risk Management Committee. The 
composition of the said committees has also been disclosed on the 
website of the Company and the web-link of the same is https://www.
tegaindustries.com/investor/#corporate-governance. The Company 
Secretary acts as the Secretary to all the Committees of the Board.
The Board of Directors have also constituted a Sustainability 
Committee to oversee and drive sustainability initiatives within 
the organization. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee acts as a link between the Management, the 
Statutory Auditors, the Internal Auditors and the Board and has 
been constituted in line with the provisions of Section 177 of the 
Act read with Regulation 18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Terms of Reference:
Terms of reference of the Audit Committee, inter alia, includes 
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the 
disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the financial 
statements are correct, sufficient and credible; recommending 
appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors; 
reviewing/examining quarterly and annual financial statements and 
auditor’s report thereon before submission to the Board for approval; 
evaluate Company’s internal financial controls and risk management 
systems; reviewing performance of statutory and internal auditors 
124
125
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Chairperson of the Committee. The Committee meetings were 
attended by the Statutory Auditors and the Chief Financial Officer 
of the Company as invitees. The Committee also invited the 
representatives of Internal Auditors for obtaining valuable guidance 
from their expertise in best practices in Internal Audit. The minutes 
of the Audit Committee meetings were circulated to the Board, 
discussed and taken note of. All recommendations made by the 
Audit Committee during the year were accepted by the Board.
As per the applicability of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Audit 
Committee meetings were held at least 4 (four) times in a year and 
the time gap between any two consecutive meetings of the Audit 
Committee did not exceed 120 days during the Financial Year 
2024-25. During the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, 5 (five) 
Audit Committee meetings were held on May 23, 2024, July 16, 
2024, August 08, 2024, November 14, 2024 and February 05, 2025.
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
Category
No. of meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Madhu Dubhashi 
Chairperson
Non-Executive Independent Director
5
5
2.
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
5
5
3.
Mehul Mohanka#
Member
Managing Director 
2
2
4.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
5
5
5.
Anand Sen*
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
Category
No. of meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Ashwani Maheshwari        
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
3
3
2.
Madhu Dubhashi
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
3
3
3.
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
Member 
Non-Executive Independent Director
3
3
 # Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee with effect from July 16, 2024
* Inducted as member of the Audit Committee with effect from November 14, 2024.
The Chairperson of the Audit Committee was present in the 48th Annual General Meeting of the Company held on August 20, 2024.
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee has been constituted 
in line with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act read with 
Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee covers all the areas mentioned under Regulation 
19 read with Para A of Part D of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 178 of the Act including evaluating the 
composition and organization of the Board and its Committees 
in light of requirements established by any regulatory body or 
any other applicable statutes, rules and regulations which the 
Committee deems relevant, making recommendations to the 
Board of Directors in respect to the appointment, re-appointment 
and resignation of Independent, Executive and Non-Executive 
and adequacy of internal control systems; reviewing the functioning 
of the Whistle Blower Mechanism and other matters specified for 
Audit Committee in Section 177 of the Act, Companies (Meetings 
of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and SEBI Listing Regulations.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance:
The composition of the Audit Committee is in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and Regulation 18 read with Part C of Schedule 
II of the SEBI Listing Regulations. During the year under review the 
Committee was reconstituted consequent to stepping down of 
Mr. Mehul Mohanka, as Member with effect from July 16, 2024 and 
induction of Mr. Anand Sen with effect from November 14, 2024.
All the Members of the Audit Committee are financially literate 
and have accounting or related financial management expertise. 
Mrs. Madhu Dubhashi, Non-Executive Independent Director is the 
The composition and attendance of the members of the Committee during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
Directors of the Company, identifying the persons who are 
qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in 
Senior Management along with remuneration payable to them 
in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommending 
to the Board their appointment and removal and carrying out 
evaluation of every Director’s performance (Including Independent 
Directors), approve the grant of options and allotment of shares to 
the eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries under 
the shareholders approved ESOP Scheme and other matters 
specified for Nomination & Remuneration Committee in Section 
178 of the Act, Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014 and under SEBI Listing Regulations.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, 3 (three) meetings of 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee were held on May 22, 
2024, November 13, 2024 and December 19, 2024.
The composition and attendance of the members of the Committee during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Remuneration of Directors:
The Nomination & Remuneration Policy of the Company, as 
approved by the Board of Directors and amended on December 
19, 2024 is accessible on the website of the Company at the link – 
https://www.tegaindustries.com/images/articles/pdf/Nomination_
and_Remuneration_Policy.pdf 
The role of Non-Executive and Independent Directors is not just 
restricted to Corporate Governance or outlook of the Company. 
They also bring with them significant professional expertise and rich 
experience across a wide spectrum of functional areas in the fields 
of scientific knowledge, research and innovation, manufacturing, 
global healthcare service, general management, finance and risk 
management, compliance and governance, technology and digital 
perspective and other corporate functions. The Company seeks their 
expert advice on various matters from time to time. The Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the 
Board the compensation payable to the Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are paid remuneration as per the terms 
of their engagement. The overall limit is 2% of net profits (calculated 
as per the provisions of Section 198 of the Act, as approved by the 
members through Postal Ballot on January 26, 2025.
The Non - Executive Directors do not have any pecuniary 
relationship/transaction with the Company in their personal 
capacity other than remuneration  as approved by the 
members as per the provisions of the Act and Sitting Fees 
and reimbursement of expenses, if any, for attending meetings 
of the Board and Committees thereof and the remuneration 
paid as per the terms of engagement, wherever applicable. The 
Non- Executive Directors and Independent Directors are paid 
H 40,000/- each for attending each meeting of the Board and 
H 10,000/- each for attending each meeting of the Committees. 
No sitting fees is paid for attending meetings of the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee. 
Details of remuneration paid/payable to the Directors for the year ended March 31, 2025 and their shareholding as on that date is as under:
     (H in Million)
Names of Directors
Salary
Perquisites/
Bonus
Commission
Sitting 
Fees
Others$
Total
Shareholding 
(No. of shares)
Benefits
Executive Directors
Madan Mohan Mohanka* 
34.89
1.90
15.76
-
-
-
54.22
53,48,502
Mehul Mohanka
43.04
0.24
9.89
-
-
-
53.17
13,315
Syed Yaver Imam#
-
-
-
-
-
2.63
2.63
29,510
Non-Executive Directors
Madan Mohan Mohanka*
-
-
-
-
1.67
1.67
53,48,502
Syed Yaver Imam#
-
-
-
1.20
0.25
-
1.45
29,510
Independent Directors
Madhu Dubhashi
-
-
-
1.50
0.36
-
1.86
-
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
-
-
-
2.50
0.36
-
2.86
-
Ashwani Maheshwari
-
-
-
1.50
0.41
-
1.91
-
Anand Sen^
-
-
-
0.56
0.14
-
0.70
-
Note: (i)	 The above table includes provisions made for gratuity, leave benefits (determined as per the actuarial valuation) and bonus 
(determined by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee).
	
(ii)	
Excludes value of perquisite upon exercise of stock options which were granted during earlier financial years. No options were 
granted during the year.
Others implies Professional Fees
* Re-designated as Chairman and Non-Executive Non-Independent Director with effect from February 01, 2025, subsequently the same was approved by the members through 
Postal Ballot on January 26, 2025.
# Appointed as an Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Non-Independent) with effect from June 01, 2024, thereafter, approved by the members at the 48th AGM of the 
Company held on August 20, 2024.
^ Appointed as an Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Independent) with effect from November 14, 2024. Subsequently approved by the members through Postal 
Ballot dated January 26, 2025. 
The appointment of Executive Directors is governed by the resolutions passed and the agreements approved by the Board and the 
members of the Company, which cover the terms and conditions of such appointment read with the service rules of the Company. 
Letters of appointment have been issued by the Company to the Independent Directors as well as the Non- Executive Non-Independent 
Directors, detailing inter alia others, their roles, duties, responsibilities, etc.
126
127
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
The tenure of office of Mr. Mehul Mohanka, Managing Director 
& Group CEO is for 5 (five) years from his date of appointment. 
Further, the Agreement can be terminated by either party by giving 
six months’ notice. 
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam’s term as Whole time Director of the Company 
concluded on May 31, 2024, subsequently he was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Non-Independent) 
with effect from June 01, 2024 and the same was approved by the 
members in the 48th Annual General Meeting held on August 20, 
2024.Tega McNally Minerals Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company, has appointed Mr. Imam as its Chief Executive Officer 
with effect from June 01, 2024. During the year under review, 
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka, Chairman and Whole timeDirector of the 
Company, expressed his intention to relinquish his position as Whole 
time Director of the Company with effect from January 31, 2025, 
accordingly, the Board of Directors based on the recommendation 
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee on December 19, 
2024 approved the re-designation of Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka 
as Chairman and Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the 
Company. Thereafter, the members of the Company through Postal 
Ballot on January 26, 2025, approved his re-designation.  
There is no separate provision for payment of severance fees.
Succession Planning:
The Board on the recommendation of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee has formulated a Policy on Succession 
Plan for the Board and Senior Management and the same 
is available on the website of the Company at the following 
web-link: 
https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/
policy_on_succession_planning_for_the__Board_&_Senior_
Management.pdf.
Performance Evaluation and Criteria:
Pursuant to Section 178 of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC) has specified 
the manner and the criteria for performance evaluation of 
the Board, its Committees and individual Directors (including 
Independent Directors). Accordingly, the Board has carried out 
the performance evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
Committees as well as evaluation of performance of the Directors 
individually.  The indicative criteria on which evaluation was carried 
out includes Degree of fulfilment of key responsibilities; Board 
structure and composition; Effectiveness of Board processes, 
information and functioning; Attendance (captured from records 
of meetings), Contribution at Board Meetings; Guidance/ support 
to management / Committee meetings, Quality of relationship of 
the committee with the Board and the management, etc.
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Chairman and 
the Non-Independent Directors was also carried out by the 
Independent Directors in its separate meeting. The NRC also 
reviewed the implementation of the criteria specified for 
performance evaluation and also formulated its feedback for 
supporting the Board in carrying out such evaluation of the 
performance. The evaluation of performance for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 was carried out through structured questionnaires 
(based on various aspects of the Board’s functioning, composition, 
its committees, culture, governance, execution and performance 
of statutory duties and obligations). The questionnaire covers all 
aspects prescribed by SEBI vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD/CIR/P/2017/004 dated January 5, 2017. The Board expressed 
its satisfaction with the evaluation process and results thereof.
Risk Management Committee
In compliance with Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Board of Directors of the Company have a Risk Management 
Committee to review, in particular, the Risk Management Policy 
of the Company, the effectiveness and adequacy of the Risk 
Management Systems of the Company.
Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference of Risk Management Committee covers 
all the requirements of Regulation 21 read with Para C of 
Part D of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations including 
Formulation of a detailed risk management policy which shall 
include: (a) a framework for identification of internal and external 
risks specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG 
related risks), information, cyber security risks or any other risk 
as may be determined by the Risk Management Committee; 
(b) measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes 
for internal control of identified risks; and (c) business continuity 
plan; Ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems 
are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with the 
business of the Company; Monitor and oversee implementation 
of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of 
risk management systems; Periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by considering 
the changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity, and 
recommend for any amendment or modification thereof, as 
necessary; Keep the Board informed about the nature and content 
of its discussions, recommendations and actions to be taken; 
Review the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of 
the Chief Risk Officer (if any); To implement and monitor policies 
and/or processes for ensuring cyber security and any other similar 
or other functions as may be laid down by the Board from time to 
time and/or as may be required under applicable law, as and when 
amended from time to time, including the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, 2 (two) meetings of the 
Risk Management Committee were held on May 22, 2024 and 
November 14, 2024.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
The composition and attendance of the members of Risk Management Committee during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
Category
No. of meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Mehul Mohanka
Chairman
Managing Director
2
2
2.
Syed Yaver Imam*
Member
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
2
2
3.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Member
Non-Executive  Independent Director
2
2
4.
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
Member
Chief Financial Officer
2
2
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
Category
No. of meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Madhu Dubhashi
Chairperson
Non-Executive  Independent Director
2
2
2.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Member
Non-Executive  Independent Director
2
2
3.
Mehul Mohanka
Member 
Managing Director
2
2
4.
Anand Sen*
Member
Non-Executive  Independent Director
0
0
*Appointed as an Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Non-Independent) with effect from June 01, 2024 and the same was approved by the members at the 48th 
Annual General Meeting held on August 20, 2024
The Risk Management Committee was reconstituted with effect from May 15, 2025, with the induction of Mr. Anand Sen as the Chairman 
of the Committee and stepping down of Mr. Mehul Mohanka, as the Chairman in the interest of good corporate governance. However, 
Mr. Mehul Mohanka continues to be a member of the Committee.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Committee
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 135 of the Act, the Company 
has Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee which 
has been entrusted with the specific responsibilities of approving 
the budget of CSR activities, reviewing the CSR programmes, 
formulation of annual action plan and monitoring the CSR spends.
Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference of CSR Committee are in conformity with 
the requirements of the Act which, inter alia, includes formulating 
and recommending to the Board, a “Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy” which shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by 
the Company as specified in Schedule VII of the Act, review and 
recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the 
activities, monitoring the Corporate Social Responsibility policy of 
the Company and its implementation from time to time and any 
other matter as the CSR Committee may deem appropriate after 
approval of the Board or as may be directed by the Board from 
time to time and/or as may be required under applicable law, as and 
when amended from time to time.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, 2 (two) CSR Committee 
meetings were held on May 22, 2024 and June 18, 2024.
During the year under review, upon the induction of Mr. Anand Sen in the Board of the Company with effect from November 14, 2024, 
the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was reconstituted on the same date, thereafter the composition and attendance of the 
members of the Committee during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
* Inducted into the Committee with effect from November 14, 2024.
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
In compliance with Regulation 20 of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and Section 178 of the Act, the Board of Directors of the Company 
have constituted a Stakeholders Relationship Committee. 
Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference of Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
(SRC) are in conformity with the requirements of Section 178 of 
the Act and Regulation 20 read with Para B of Part D of Schedule II 
to the SEBI Listing Regulations which, inter alia, includes considering 
and looking into various aspects of interest of shareholders and 
other security holders of the company; resolving the grievances 
of the security holders of the company including complaints 
related to transfer/ transmission of shares, non- receipt of annual 
report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate 
certificates, general meetings etc.; reviewing of various measures 
and initiatives taken by the company for reducing the quantum 
of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend 
warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders 
of the company and carrying out any other functions required to 
be carried out by the Stakeholders Relationship Committee as 
contained in the SEBI Listing Regulations or any other applicable 
law, as and when amended from time to time.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, 1 (one) SRC meeting was 
held on May 22, 2024.
128
129
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
Category
No. of meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Anand Sen*
Chairman
Non-Executive  Independent Director
1
1
2.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Member
Non-Executive  Independent Director
2
2
3.
Mehul Mohanka
Member 
Managing Director
2
2
4.
Manoj Kumar Sinha 
Member
Director- Global Operations
2
2
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Position
Category
No. of meetings 
entitled to attend
No. of meetings 
attended
1.
Ashwani Maheshwari
Chairman
Non-Executive  Independent Director
1
1
2.
Syed Yaver Imam*
Member 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
1
1
3.
Mehul Mohanka
Member 
Managing Director
1
1
The composition and attendance of the members of the Committee during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
*Appointed as an Additional Director (Category: Non-Executive Non-Independent) with effect from June 01, 2024 and approved by the members at the 48th Annual General 
Meeting held on August 20, 2024
Compliance Officer:
Ms. Manjuree Rai, Company Secretary (holding Membership No. 
A12858), is the Compliance Officer of the Company under the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
Details of Shareholders’ complaints:
One complaint was received and duly resolved during the period 
under review. There were no outstanding complaints as on 
March 31, 2025.
The Company has authorised the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee to examine and redress complaints by shareholders 
and investors. The status of quarterly complaints is reported to the 
Board of Directors. The Company constantly monitors the SEBI 
Complaints Redressal System (SCORES) to track and redress the 
investor complaints in a speedy manner. The Company also has a 
designated email id for transparent and effective communication 
with shareholders i.e. investor.relations@tegaindustries.com. 
There are no pending complaints on the SCORES platform.
As per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023, a common Online Dispute 
Resolution Portal (ODR Portal) has been established for investors 
to facilitate online conciliation and arbitration of disputes related 
to securities. Investors can now opt for arbitration with Stock 
Exchanges in case of any dispute against the Company or its RTA 
regarding delays or defaults in processing investor service requests. 
This is in addition to the existing SCORES system, where investors 
initially lodge their complaints or grievances against the Company. 
Sustainability Committee
The Sustainability Committee has been constituted by the Board 
of Directors on May 30, 2023, to oversee and drive sustainability 
initiatives within the organization. This Committee is entrusted with 
the specific responsibility for developing and effectively implementing 
sustainability-based policies and strategies that are not only techno-
economically viable but which shall also ensure that it meets the 
expectations and concerns of all interested stakeholders.
Terms of reference:
The terms of reference of the Sustainability Committee covers 
developing and implementing a sustainability framework and 
roadmap for the organization that is able to - promote sustainable 
practices and behaviour, identify innovation, explore continuous 
improvement in sustainability practices and bring in more 
competitive advantage to the business in comparison to its peers, 
ensuring that the sustainability tasks are completely ingrained 
and integrated in the strategy of the core business and its 
performance and progress is monitored, reviewed and evaluated 
at periodic interval, identifying and prioritizing sustainability goals, 
targets, and key performance indicators (KPIs) aligned with the 
organization's values and industry best practices, identifying and 
ensuring compliance with relevant national and international laws, 
regulations, and standards related to sustainability that have a 
potential to impact the business of the Company, collaborating and 
initiating dialogue with relevant internal and external stakeholders 
who impact or could impact the business of the Company, as well 
as be impacted by the business of the Company with an overall 
objective of creating value both for the stakeholder as well as for 
the Company, exploring opportunities of increasing investment by 
ensuring higher Environment Social Governance rating and other 
matters specified for Sustainability Committee.
Composition, Meetings and Attendance:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, 2 (two) meetings were held 
on May 22, 2024 and January 16, 2025.
The Committee was reconstituted upon induction of Mr. Anand Sen as a member with effect from November 14, 2024.Thereafter, the 
composition and attendance of the members of the Committee during the Financial Year 2024-25 are as follows:
* Mr. Anand Sen was inducted into the Committee with effect from November 14, 2024.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Particulars of Senior Management:
The particulars of Senior Management as on March 31, 2025 are:
Name of Senior Management 
Category
Manoj Kumar Sinha
Director – Global Operations
Bhanu Sharma* 
Global Head of Human Resources & Administration
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
Chief Financial Officer
Pratik Basu Roy
President – Product Management, Global Sales & Marketing
Manjuree Rai
Global Head of Legal and Compliance and Company Secretary
Sanjeev Mishra$
Global Head of Capital Equipment (Capex) Purchase
Shiraj Chakraborty#
Global Head of Human Resources & Administration
Financial 
Year Ended
Date
Time
Venue
Special Resolution Passed
March 31, 
2024
August 20, 2024
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Through Video Conferencing
Deemed Venue: Godrej Waterside, 
Tower-II, Unit No. 807, 8th Floor, 
Plot-5, Block-DP, Sector-V, Salt Lake 
Electronics Complex, Kolkata-700091
-
March 31, 
2023
August 29, 2023
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Through Video Conferencing
Deemed Venue: Godrej Waterside, 
Tower-II, Unit No. 807, 8th Floor, 
Plot-5, Block-DP, Sector-V, Salt Lake 
Electronics Complex, Kolkata-700091
-
March 31, 
2022
September 22, 2022
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Through Video Conferencing
Deemed Venue: Godrej Waterside, 
Tower-II, Unit No. 807, 8th Floor, 
Plot-5, Block-DP, Sector-V, Salt Lake 
Electronics Complex, Kolkata-700091
(i)	 Re-appointment of Mrs. Madhu 
Dubhashi (DIN: 00036846) as 
an Independent Director of the 
Company for a second term of 5 
(five) consecutive years.
(ii)	 Re-appointment of Mr. Mehul 
Mohanka (DIN: 00052134) as the 
Managing Director of the Company 
& Group CEO for a further period 
of 5 (five) consecutive years.
*Cessation as Global Head of Human Resources & Administration with effect from the close of business hours on November 28, 2024.
$ Appointed as Global Head of Capital Equipment (Capex) Purchase with effect from October 11, 2024.
# Appointed as Global Head of Human Resources & Administration with effect from March 18, 2025.
Website:
The Company has maintained a functional website i.e. www.tegaindustries.com containing basic information about the Company like 
details of business, financial information, shareholding pattern, press release, compliance with Corporate Governance, contact information 
of designated officials of the Company who are responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances, etc. 
All the information required to be disclosed under Regulation 46 and other applicable Regulations of the SEBI Listing Regulations are 
disseminated on the website of the Company.
General Body Meetings
Location and time, where last three Annual General Meetings were held:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, No Extra Ordinary General Meetings of the Members were held.
130
131
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Postal Ballot:
The Company has sought the approval of members twice through Postal Ballot for the following:
a)	
By way of special resolution through Postal Ballot Notice dated December 19, 2024, the effective date of the resolutions were 
January 26, 2025, for the following:
Sl. 
No.
Description
Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
No. of votes
% of total votes
No. of votes
% of total votes
1.
Appointment of Mr. Anand Sen (DIN: 
00237914) as a Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company for a term of 5 (Five) 
consecutive years.
6,29,49,719
99.99%
8,140
0.01%
2.
Redesignation of Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka 
(DIN: 00049388) as a Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director pursuant to his 
relinquishment of the position of “Whole Time 
Director”
6,05,43,234
96.16%
24,14,625
3.84%
3.
Payment of remuneration to Non-Executive 
Directors including Independent Directors.
6,04,27,942
95.98%
25,29,809
4.02%
Sl. 
No.
Description
Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
No. of votes
% of total votes
No. of votes
% of total votes
1.
Re-classification of Authorised Share Capital 
and Consequent Alteration in the Capital 
Clause of Memorandum of Association of the 
Company.
6,28,47,103
99.99%
724
0.01%
	
Mr. Atul Kumar Labh, Practicing Company Secretary (CP No. 3238 and Membership No. FCS 4848) of M/s A.K. Labh & Co., was 
appointed as the Scrutinizer, to scrutinize the Postal Ballot through remote e-voting in a fair and transparent manner. The e-voting 
for above mentioned Postal Ballot commenced on December 28, 2024, at 9:00 am IST and was concluded on January 26, 2025, 
at 5:00 pm IST.
b)	
By way of ordinary resolution through Postal Ballot notice dated February 28, 2025, the effective date of the resolution was April 02, 
2025, for the below appended resolution:
	
Mr. Atul Kumar Labh, Practicing Company Secretary (CP No. 3238 and Membership No. FCS 4848) of M/s A.K. Labh & Co., was 
appointed as the Scrutinizer, to scrutinize the Postal Ballot through remote e-voting in a fair and transparent manner. The e-voting 
for the above-mentioned Postal Ballot commenced on March 04, 2025, at 9:00 am IST and concluded on April 02, 2025, at 5:00 pm 
IST.  Further, no special resolution is proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot as on the date of this report. However, if required, 
the same shall be passed in compliance with the provisions of the Act, the SEBI Listing Regulations and any other applicable laws.
Means of Communication:
The full format of the results are filed with the Stock Exchanges on NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) and BSE 
Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre (the Listing Centre) and are available on the websites of the Stock Exchange - www.nseindia.com 
and www.bseindia.com . The extract of the said financial results were published in the leading English and Bengali newspapers such as 
Financial Express (All editions) and Arthik Lipi.
The financial results, official news releases, presentations made to Institutional Investors and Analysts, conference call transcripts and the 
audio/video recordings with Analysts have been hosted on the Company’s website www.tegaindustries.com as well as on the website of 
stock exchanges – BSE and NSE, from time to time. No unpublished price sensitive information is discussed in the meetings/presentations 
shared with the Analysts/Investors.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
General Shareholder Information
Annual General Meeting (AGM):
Date
Friday, September 19, 2025
Venue
The AGM will be held through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) 
in compliance with the SEBI Regulations/MCA Circulars and shall be deemed to be conducted at the 
Registered Office of the Company.
Time
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Record Date
Monday, September 08, 2025
Financial Year:
The Financial Year under review is from April 01, 2024, to 
March 31, 2025.
Dividend Payment Date:
Within a period of 30 days from the AGM date, if declared by the 
Members at the AGM.
Listing on Stock Exchange(s):
Name and address of Stock Exchanges(s):
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on-
i)	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
	
Exchange Plaza, Plot No. C/1, G Block,
	
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 
	
Mumbai – 400 051
	
NSE Symbol: TEGA
ii)	
BSE Limited  
	
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
	
Dalal Street,
	
Mumbai – 400 001
	
BSE Scrip Code: 543413
Listing fees for the FY 2025-26 has been paid to both the 
aforementioned stock exchanges.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent:
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly Link Intime India 
Private Limited), is the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) 
of the Company.
Address:
Rasoi Court 5th Floor,  
20 Sir R .N. Mukherjee Road, Kolkata - 700 001
SEBI Registration No.: INR000004058
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
Email id: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
Distribution of Shareholding
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025
(a)	 Category-wise Shareholding:
Category
No. of Share 
Holders
% of Share 
Holders
No. of 
Shares
% of Shares
Promoters & Promoter Group
4
0.01
4,97,68,945
74.80
Institutions:
Mutual Funds
18
0.03
1,04,41,884
15.69
Alternate Investment Funds
2
0.00
29,015
0.04
Insurance Companies
2
0.00
20,13,562
3.03
NBFCs registered with RBI
2
0.00
2,730
0.00
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category I
59
0.11
10,70,569
1.61
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category II
7
0.01
78,500
0.12
Non-Institutions:
Directors and their relatives  
(excluding Independent Directors and Nominee Directors)
1
0.00
29,510
0.04
Resident Individuals
50973
96.20
23,97,837
3.60
NRIs
763
1.45
1,35,505
0.20
Foreign Nationals
1
0.00
3,380
0.01
132
133
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Category
No. of Share 
Holders
% of Share 
Holders
No. of 
Shares
% of Shares
Bodies Corporate
163
0.31
4,16,208
0.63
Trusts
2
0.00
100
0.00
LLP
14
0.03
10,174
0.01
HUF
970
1.84
1,36,539
0.22
Clearing Members
5
0.01
1,034
0.00
Total
52,986
100.00
6,65,35,492
100.00
Sl. 
No.
Shares Range
Number of 
Shareholders
% of Total 
Shareholders
Total Shares for 
the Range
% of Issued Capital
1
1
to
500
52871
98.6731
15,86,505
2.3844
2
501
to
1000
305
0.5692
2,28,431
0.3433
3
1001
to
2000
145
0.2706
2,12,579
0.3195
4
2001
to
3000
65
0.1213
1,60,504
0.2412
5
3001
to
4000
30
0.0560
1,04,658
0.1573
6
4001
to
5000
17
0.0317
77,279
0.1161
7
5001
to
10000
51
0.0952
3,50,068
0.5261
8
10001
to
**********
98
0.1829
6,38,15,468
95.9119
Total
53,582
100.0000
6,65,35,492
100.0000
	
Note: Aggregate number of shareholders has been consolidated based on PAN.
(b)	Number of Equity Shares:
Demat Suspense Account/Unclaimed 
Suspense  Account:
In terms of Regulation 34 read with Schedule V to the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the listed entity has to make certain disclosures 
with respect to Demat Suspense Account/Unclaimed Suspense 
Account. In this regard, the Company is not required to make 
any disclosures as it does not have any demat suspense account/
unclaimed suspense account.
Share Transfer System:
SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated January 25, 2022, has mandated all listed companies to 
issue securities in dematerialised form only, while processing 
the service request of issue of duplicate securities certificate, 
claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account, renewal/ exchange 
of securities certificate, endorsement, sub-division/splitting of 
securities certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ folios, 
transmission and transposition.
In view of the same and to eliminate all risks associated with physical 
shares and avail various benefits of dematerialisation, Members are 
advised to dematerialise the shares held by them in physical form. 
Members can contact the Company or RTA, for assistance in this 
regard. Transfer of shares in electronic form are processed and 
approved by National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) 
and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) through 
their Depository Participant without the involvement of the 
Company.Dematerialization of shares and liquidity:
The Company has entered into agreements with NSDL and CDSL 
whereby shareholders have the option to dematerialize their 
shares with either of the depositories.
Demat ISIN No. for equity shares of the Company in NSDL and 
CDSL is INE011K01018.
99.83% of the equity shares of the Company have been 
dematerialized as on March 31, 2025.
Status of dematerialization as on March 31, 2025-
Particulars
No. of 
Shares
% of Total 
Capital
National Securities Depository 
Limited
6,38,45,351
95.96
Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited
25,75,156
3.87
Total Dematerialised
6,64,20,507
99.83
Physical
1,14,985
0.17
Grand Total
6,65,35,492
100
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit:
As stipulated by SEBI, a qualified Practicing Company Secretary 
carries out the Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit to reconcile the 
total admitted capital with NSDL and CDSL and the total issued and 
listed capital. This Audit is carried out every quarter and the report 
thereon is submitted to the Stock Exchanges. The Audit confirms 
that the total Listed and Paid-up Capital is in agreement with the 
aggregate of the total number of shares in dematerialized form (held 
with NSDL and CDSL) and total number of shares in physical form.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Outstanding 
GDRs/ADRs/Warrants 
or 
any 
Convertible 
instruments, 
Conversion Date and likely impact on 
equity: 
Not Applicable.
Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid dividend 
to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund:
In terms of Section 125 of the Act, read with rules made thereunder, 
every Company is required to transfer the unpaid dividend 
amounts which remained unclaimed for 7 consecutive years from 
the date of transfer of such amounts to Unpaid Dividend Account 
to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). There are no 
unclaimed/unpaid amounts due for transfer to IEPF during the 
year under review.
Further, in accordance with the IEPF Rules, the Board of Directors 
have appointed Ms. Manjuree Rai, as the Nodal Officer of the 
Company for the purpose of coordination with the IEPF Authority. 
The details of the Nodal Officer is available on the website 
of the Company.
Disclosure of certain types of agreement 
binding listed entities:
There are no agreements which are required to be disclosed as 
per Clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Commodity price risk or foreign 
exchange risk and hedging activities:
The Company lays down the overall risk strategy and Risk 
Management Committee oversees the application and adherence 
to it. The Company has adopted a comprehensive approach for 
market risk that not only hedges against market risks, but also 
endeavours to maximise the risk-adjusted rate of return of the 
portfolio by keeping close track of macro-economic developments 
including changes and its impact on movement in interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates and liquidity position in the market. 
Foreign exchange risk management becomes an imperative as 
the Company has exposure in foreign receivables and payables in 
foreign currency. Therefore, in order to optimise the cost of funds 
and diversify the funding mix, effective hedging strategies are put 
in place in keeping with the Company’s risk appetite; and limits 
pertaining an open position are devised. 
The Company does not deal in commodity hedging and hence the 
disclosure pursuant to SEBI Master Circular dated November 11, 
2024, is not required to be given.
Plant Locations:
The Company has 6 (six) manufacturing sites, including 3 (three) in 
India and 1 (one) each in South Africa, Chile and Australia. Location 
of the plants are:
 
 
Kalyani: P.O. Netaji Subhas Sanatorium, Kalyani, Nadia – 741251
 
 
Samali: Village – Samali, Barapukur Road, P.O. Nahajari, 
District - 24 Parganas (South), Kolkata – 700104
 
 
Dahej: Plot No. Z/103/J, Dahej (SEZ), Phase II, P.O. Dahej, 
Vagra District, Bharuch, Gujarat – 392130
 
 
Chile: Galvarino 7701, Quilicura, Santiago, Chile
 
 
South Africa: 2 Uranium Road, Vulcania Ext 2, Brakpan, 1541
 
 
Australia: Unit 2&3, 26 Biscayne Way, Jandakot, WA 6164
Address for correspondence:
Registered Office – 
Tega Industries Limited
Godrej Waterside, DP-5, DP Block, Tower - II 8th floor, 
Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, Kolkata, West Bengal - 700091
T. +91 33 4093 9000 | F. +91 33 4093 9075 
W. www.tegaindustries.com 
Email address: compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com 
Credit Ratings:
The Company has obtained credit ratings for the credit facilities 
sanctioned to it and the strong ratings ascribed by the Rating 
Agencies reflect the Company’s financial discipline and prudence 
in management. 
As on the date of this report, CRISIL Ratings Limited has upgraded 
the ratings of the Company as follows:
Long Term Rating
CRISIL AA-/Stable (Upgraded from 
‘CRISIL A+/Stable’)
Short Term Rating
CRISIL A1+ (Upgraded from ‘CRISIL - A1’)
Other Disclosures
i)	
Related Party Transactions - The Company does not 
have any materially significant related party transactions, 
which may have potential conflict with the interests of the 
Company at large. The transactions with related parties, in 
normal course of business, have been disclosed separately 
in the Notes to the Financial Statements. The Company 
has disclosed the policy on dealing with the related party 
transactions as amended on May 15, 2025 on its website 
at the following web-link: https://www.tegaindustries.com/
images/articles/pdf/POLICY_ON_RELATED_PARTY_
TRANSACTIONS.pdf.
134
135
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Sl. 
No.
Name of subsidiary
Date of 
incorporation
Place of 
incorporation
Name of Statutory 
Auditor
Date of appointment 
of Statutory Auditor
1
Tega Holdings Pte. Limited
December 01, 2010
Singapore
Grant Thornton 
Audit LLP
February 14, 2025
2
Tega Industries Africa (Pty) Ltd
November 08, 1984*
South Africa
Sizwentsalubagobodo 
Grant Thornton Inc 
(Designated Auditor 
– Phillip Lesiba 
Mahlobogoane)
September 09, 2024
3
Tega Industries Chile SpA
February 05, 1990#
 Chile
Grant Thornton 
Auditoŕia y Servicios 
Limitada
October 01, 2024
4
Tega McNally Minerals Limited
December 06, 1943
 India
Walker Chandiok & 
Co. LLP
July 16, 2024
	
*Acquired by Tega Industries Limited in accordance with the share purchase agreement dated May 12, 2006.
	
# Acquired by Tega Industries Limited in accordance with the stock purchase agreement dated February 03, 2011.
	
The Company has appointed Independent Directors of the 
Company to serve as Independent Directors on the Board of 
its unlisted material subsidiaries, as per the provisions of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations as on March 31, 2025.
	
The Company has also disclosed the policy for determining 
material subsidiaries last reviewed and amended on May 15, 
2025. The Policy is available on the website at the following 
web-link: 
https://www.tegaindustries.com/images/articles/
pdf/Policy_for_Determination_of_Materiality_of_Events_
or_Information.pdf .
ii)	
Details of non-compliance by and penalties, etc. 
imposed on the Company - There were no instances 
of non-compliances related to capital markets during the 
year under review and no penalties/ strictures were imposed 
against the Company during the last three years.
iii)	 Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy - Whistle 
Blower Policy framed by the Company to deal with unethical 
behavior, victimisation, fraud and other grievances or 
concerns, if any, is available on the Company’s website at the 
following web-link: https://www.tegaindustries.com/images/
articles/pdf/Whistle_Blower_Policy.pdf.
	
No complaints were reported under the vigil mechanism 
during the FY 2024-25. Further, no personnel have been 
denied access to the Audit Committee.
iv)	 Details 
of 
compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 
requirements - All mandatory requirements relating to 
Corporate Governance under the SEBI Listing Regulations 
have been appropriately complied with.
v)	
Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement – The Company has not raised any funds 
through preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement during the year under review.
vi)	 Management Discussion and Analysis Report - 
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report forms part of the Annual 
Report. Details of significant changes in key financial ratios, 
along with detailed explanations thereof (including details 
of any change in Return on Net Worth as compared to the 
immediately previous financial year along with a detailed 
explanation thereof) have been adequately covered under 
the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
vii)	 Annual Secretarial Compliance Report – In terms of 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations and circulars 
issued thereunder, the Company has obtained the Annual 
Secretarial Compliance Report from Mrs. Sweety Kapoor, 
Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. FCS 6410 
and C.P. No. 5738) for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2025, confirming compliance of all the applicable SEBI 
Regulations and circulars/guidelines issued thereunder. 
viii)	CEO & CFO Certification – Mr. Mehul Mohanka, Managing 
Director & Group CEO and Mr. Sharad Kumar Khaitan, Chief 
Financial Officer have issued a certificate according to the 
provisions of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
for the Financial Year 2024-25 certifying that the Financial 
Statements do not contain any material untrue statement and 
these statements represent a true and fair view of the Company’s 
affairs. They also give quarterly certification on Financial Results 
while placing the Financial Results before the Board in terms of 
Regulation 33(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
	
Details of Material Subsidiaries:
	
Pursuant to Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has 4 (four) material subsidiaries as on March 31, 2025, 
details of which are mentioned below:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ix)	 Accounting Treatment in preparation of Financial 
Statements - The Financial Statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the applicable Indian Accounting 
Standards (“Ind AS”) prescribed under Section 133 of the 
Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time).
x)	
Risk Management Policy - The Company has a defined 
Risk Management Policy approved by the Board of Directors 
of the Company. The Risk Management Policy is available 
on the website of the Company at the following web link: 
https://www.tegaindustries.com/investors/policies/risk_
management_policy.pdf.
	
Further, the Company has adequate internal control systems 
to identify risks at appropriate time and to ensure that the 
executive management controls the risk through properly 
defined framework.
xi)	 Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 - As per the requirement of 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules made 
thereunder, the Company has constituted an Internal 
Complaints Committee at all its locations to address 
complaints pertaining to sexual harassment in accordance 
with the POSH Act. The objective being providing a safe 
working environment to all the employees of the Company 
(permanent, contractual, temporary and trainees covered 
under this policy).
	
No complaints were pending at the beginning of the financial 
year. During the year under review, no complaint / case 
was filed and no complaints were pending for redressal as 
on end of the financial year, pursuant to Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013.
xii)	 Certificate from Practicing Company Secretary 
regarding non-debarment and non-disqualification 
of Directors - A certificate has been obtained from 
Mrs. Sweety Kapoor, Practicing Company Secretary 
(Membership No. FCS 6410 and C.P. No. 5738) confirming 
that none of the Directors of the Company have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing 
as directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI)/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any 
such statutory authority.
xiii)	Acceptance of recommendation of Committees 
by the Board - All recommendations made by the 
Committees of the Board during the year were accepted 
by the Board. During the Financial Year 2024-25, there was 
no such instance wherein the Board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any committee of the Board.
xiv) Consolidated fees paid/payable to Statutory 
Auditors - Details of total fees for all services paid by the 
Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis for 
the Financial Year 2024-25, to M/s Walker Chandiok & Co. 
LLP, Chartered Accountantsbeing the Statutory Auditors and 
all entities in the network firm/network entity of which the 
Statutory Auditors are a part, given below:
Particulars
Amount 
 (J in Million)
Statutory Audit Fees 
13.22
Limited Review
5.49
Certification Fees
0.25
Reimbursement of expenses
0.40
Total
19.36
	
Details of total fees for all services paid by the Company 
and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis for the Financial 
Year 2024-25, to M/s Price Waterhouse & Co. Bangalore 
LLP, Chartered Accountants being the erstwhile Statutory 
Auditors and all entities in the network firm/network entity 
of which the Statutory Auditors are a part, given below:
Particulars
Amount 
 (J in Million)
Statutory Audit Fees 
                  0.91 
Limited Review
                  2.31 
Reimbursement of expenses
                  0.46 
Total
                  3.68 
xv) Disclosure of ‘Loans and advances 
in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are 
interested by name and amount’ –
Loan given by
Loan given to
Amount 
(J in Million)
Tega Industries Limited
Tega Holdings 
Pte. Limited
200.00
	
Note: The above-mentioned loan is an existing loan and no 
fresh loan has been given to Tega Holdings Pte. Limited.
136
137
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
xvi)	Compliance 
with 
Corporate 
Governance 
Requirements - The Company has duly complied with the 
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses 
(b) to (i) and (t) of sub- regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
xvii) Compliance with discretionary 
requirements –
a.	
Maintenance of Chairman’s office – The Company bears all 
expenses for maintenance of the Chairman’s office including 
the payment to its staff as business expense. 
b.	
Shareholder Rights – As the quarterly and half yearly financial 
performance along with significant events are published in the 
newspapers and are also posted on the Company’s website at 
https://www.tegaindustries.com/investor/#stock-exchange, 
the same are not being sent to the shareholders separately.
c.	
Modified opinion(s) in Audit Report – The Auditors have 
expressed an unmodified opinion in their report on the 
Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the Financial Year 2024-25.
d.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor – The Internal Auditors 
functionally reports to the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors.
xviii) Other items which are not applicable to the Company have 
not been separately commented upon.                                                                        
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
                                                                               Mehul Mohanka
Place: Kolkata  	
Managing Director & Group CEO
Date: May 15, 2025 	
DIN: 00052134
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE WITH THE  
CODE OF CONDUCT
Tega Industries Limited (the ‘Company’) has adopted the Code of Conduct for its Board Members and Senior Management Personnel and 
the same is available on the website of the Company.
It is hereby confirmed that the Company has obtained affirmation from all the Board Members and Senior Management Personnel that 
they have complied with the said Code for the Financial Year 2024-25.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Mehul Mohanka
Place: Kolkata	
Managing Director & Group CEO
Date: May 15, 2025	
DIN: 00052134
CERTIFICATION BY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
IN TERMS OF REGULATION 17(8) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015  
We, the undersigned, in our respective capacities, to the best of our knowledge and belief, hereby certify that:
A.	
We have reviewed the Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2025 and that to the best of 
our knowledge and belief:
	
1.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
	
2.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing Accounting 
Standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the Auditors and 
the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps 
we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
1.	
there has been no significant change in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
2.	
there has been no significant change in the accounting policies and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
Financial Statements; and
	
3.	
there has been no instance of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial reporting.	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: Kolkata	
Mehul Mohanka	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
Date: May 15, 2025	
Managing Director & Group CEO	
Chief Financial Officer
138
139
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONDITIONS OF CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
To 
The Members of
Tega Industries Limited
I have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Tega Industries Limited [L25199WB1976PLC030532] 
(“the Company”) for the year ended March 31, 2025, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of Regulation 
46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“LODR Regulations”).
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. My examination was limited to the 
review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the explanations given to me, read with the matter described 
hereinabove and the representations made by the Directors and the management, I certify that the Company has complied with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in LODR Regulations during the year ended March 31, 2025.
Sd/-
Sweety Kapoor
	
Practising Company Secretary
	
Membership No. FCS 6410, CP No.5738 
UIN: I2003WB399800
Place:  Kolkata 	
PRCN: 6742/2025
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: F006410G000346706
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To
The Members of 
TEGA INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, 
Office No. 807, 8th Floor, Block DP-5,
Salt Lake Sector V,
Bidhannagar, Kolkata – 700091
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the  Directors of M/s. Tega Industries 
Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”),having CIN: L25199WB1976PLC030532 and  registered office at Godrej Waterside, 
Tower-II, Office No. 807, 8th Floor, Block DP-5,Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, Kolkata - 700091, produced before me by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para – C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications [including Director Identification Number (DIN) status 
at the portal www.mca.gov.in] as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its officers, I hereby certify 
that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the financial year ended on March 31, 2025,have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any other Statutory Authority.
Sl. 
No.
DIN
Name
Date of appointment in Company
1
00049388
MADAN MOHAN MOHANKA
15/05/1976
2
00052134
MEHUL MOHANKA
06/06/2002
3
00588381
YAVER SYED IMAM
19/07/2005
4
02345086
JAGDISHWAR PRASAD SINHA
01/05/2021
5
00036846
MADHU DUBHASHI
01/05/2021
6
07341295
ASHWANI MAHESHWARI
01/04/2022
7
00237914
ANAND SEN
14/11/2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Sd/-
Sweety Kapoor
	
Practising Company Secretary
	
Membership No. FCS 6410, CP No.5738 
UIN: I2003WB399800
Place:  Kolkata 	
PRCN: 6742/2025
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: F006410G000346741
140
141
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNEXURE VI
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To
The Members,
Tega Industries Limited 
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II,
Block DP-5, Office No. - 807, 8th Floor	
Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar,
Kolkata - 700091, West Bengal 
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Tega Industries Limited (CIN-
L25199WB1976PLC030532) 
(hereinafter 
called 
the 
‘Company’). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate 
conduct/ statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon. 
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, the 
Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year 
ended 31st March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board 
processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the period ended 31st March, 2025 according to the provisions of:
(i) 	 The Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and the Rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the 
Rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules 
and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992:
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;
(v)	
Other than fiscal, labour and environmental laws which are 
generally applicable to all manufacturing companies, the 
following industry specific law, as identified and confirmed 
by the management, is applicable to the company, compliance 
whereof was examined on test check basis and confirmed by 
the management:
 	
The Rubber Act, 1947
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(a)	
Secretarial Standards with respect to Board Meetings (SS-
1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (ICSI);
(b)	 The Listing Agreement entered into by the Company with 
BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
I report that during the Period under Review, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Laws, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
I further report that, during the year under review, there were 
no actions/ events in pursuance of the following Rules/Regulations 
requiring compliance thereof by the Company:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of 
Securities) Regulations, 2018; 
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Non- Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
I further report that the compliance by the Company of applicable 
financial laws, like direct and indirect tax laws, has not been 
reviewed in this Audit since the same has been subject to review 
by statutory auditors and other designated professionals.
I Further Report that:
The Board of the Company is duly constituted with proper 
balance of Executive Directors, Non- Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors. 
The processes related to the following changes in the composition 
of Board of Directors during the audit period were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act and SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015. 
1. 	
Mr. Syed Yaver Iman (DIN: 0058831) ceased to be a Whole 
time Director on expiry of his term on 31st May, 2024 and he 
was appointed as an Additional Director in the category of 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company 
w.e.f., 1st June, 2024. Thereafter the members accorded their 
approval at the 48th Annual General Meeting of the Company 
for his appointment as a Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director w.e.f. 20th August, 2024.  
2. 	
Mr. Anand Sen (DIN: 00237914) was appointed as an Additional 
Director in the category of Non-Executive Independent Director 
of the Company for a term of 5 (Five) consecutive years w.e.f., 
14th November, 2024. Thereafter, the members accorded their 
approval for his appointment as a Non-Executive Independent 
Director through Postal Ballot dated 26th January, 2025.
3.	
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388), the Chairman 
of the Company, has relinquished the position of Whole time 
Director and has been re-designated as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director and Chairman for a period of 5 
(five) years w.e.f., 1st February, 2025, pursuant to approval of 
the members through Postal Ballot dated 26th January, 2025.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at 
shorter notice for which necessary consents have been sought at 
the meeting and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings were 
carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the meetings 
of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board, as the case 
may be and therefore no dissenting views were required to be 
captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company, commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company, to monitor and ensure compliance with the applicable 
Laws, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines.
I further report that during the Audit Period under review no 
major action having a bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance 
of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, 
etc. above have taken place except the following:
1.	
M/s. Price Waterhouse  & Co. Bangalore LLP, Chartered 
Accountants (Firm Registration No. 007567S/S-200012) 
has resigned as Statutory Auditors of the Company with 
effect from 9th August, 2024 and M/s. Walker Chandiok & 
Co LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
001076N/N500013) were appointed as Statutory Auditors 
to fill the casual vacancy with effect from 9th August, 2024 
until the conclusion of the 48th Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). Thereafter the members accorded their approval 
at the 48th AGM of the Company for the appointment of 
M/s.   Walker Chandiok & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants 
(Firm Registration No. 001076N/N500013) as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a term of 5 (five) years to 
hold office from the conclusion of the 48th AGM till the 
conclusion of 53rd AGM.
2.	
The Board of Directors have sought approval of the 
shareholders by way of Ordinary Resolution, through Postal 
Ballot notice dated 28th February, 2025, for Re-classification 
of Authorised  Share Capital  and consequent  alteration 
in Capital Clause of the Memorandum of Association of 
the company which  was passed by the shareholders on 
2nd April , 2025.
3.	
Tega Holdings Pte Limited, a material subsidiary of 
the Company has incorporated a new subsidiary, Tega 
Industries Ghana Ltd. 
	
Sd/- 
Sweety Kapoor
Practising Company Secretary
Membership No. FCS 6410, CP No.5738
UIN: I2003WB399800
Place:  Kolkata	
PRCN: 6742/2025
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: F006410G000346794
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure - A and forms an integral part of this report.
142
143
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNEXURE - A
To
The Members,
Tega Industries Limited 
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II,
Block DP-5, Office No. - 807, 8th Floor,
Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar,
Kolkata - 700091, West Bengal 
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. I believe that the processes and practices I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
My audit was based on examination of books and records maintained by the Company.
4.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company as well as 
correctness of the values and figures reported in various disclosures and returns as required to be submitted by the Company under 
the specified laws, though I have relied to a certain extent on the information furnished in such returns.
5.	
Whenever required, I have obtained the Management Representation about the compliance of Laws, Rules and Regulations and 
happening of events etc.
6.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations and Standards is the responsibility of 
the management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test and sample basis.
7.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
Sd/- 
Sweety Kapoor
Practising Company Secretary
Membership No. FCS 6410, CP No.5738
UIN: I2003WB399800
Place:  Kolkata 	
PRCN: 6742/2025
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: F006410G000346794
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2025
To, 
The Members, 
TEGA MCNALLY MINERALS LIMITED
(Formerly known as McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited)
CIN: U28999WB1943PLC133247
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, 16th Floor, Block DP-5, 
Office Space No. 1606B, Salt Lake, Sector-V, 
Bidhannagar, Sech Bhawan, 
North 24 Parganas-700091
I Manisha Saraf, Practising Company Secretaries, have conducted 
the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory 
provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by 
TEGA MCNALLY MINERALS LIMITED (hereinafter called 
‘the Company’) for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2025. 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided me a 
reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the company’s books, papers, minute 
books, registers, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the company and also the information provided by the 
Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during 
the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, 
the company has, during the audit period covering the Financial Year 
ended on 31st March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-
processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, registers, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2025, to the extent 
applicable, according to the provisions of: -
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules made 
thereunder including statutory amendments made thereto and 
modifications thereof for the time being in force;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’), to the extent applicable: -
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; (Not applicable 
during the financial year under review);
	
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not applicable during the financial 
year under review);
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011; (Not applicable during the financial 
year under review);
	
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits & Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable during the financial 
year under review);
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
applicable during the financial year under review);
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client; (Not applicable during the financial 
year under review);
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable 
during the financial year under review);
	
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of 
Securities) Regulations, 2018. (Not applicable during 
the financial year under review);
144
145
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
(vi)	 Management has identified and confirmed the following laws 
as being specifically applicable to the Company:
	
(a)	
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986;
	
(b)	 The 
Water 
(Prevention 
and 
Control 
of 
Pollution) Act, 1974;
	
(c)	
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981;
	
(d)	 The Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and 
Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016;
	
(e)	
The Factories Act, 1948;
	
(f)	
The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947;
	
(g)	
The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948;
	
(h)	 The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) 
Act, 1970;
I have relied on the representation made by the Company and 
its Officers for systems and mechanism formed by the Company 
for compliances under above mentioned applicable Acts and Laws 
to the Company.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of 
the following: 
(a)	
Secretarial Standards with respect to Meetings of Board of 
Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India – The Company 
has generally complied with Secretarial Standards with 
respect to Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and 
General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
(b)	 The Listing agreement entered into by the Company with 
Stock Exchange and Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. (Not applicable during the financial 
year under review);
I further report that, the compliance by the Company of 
applicable financial laws such as direct and indirect tax laws and 
maintenance of financial records and books of accounts have not 
been reviewed in this audit since the same have been subject to 
review by the statutory financial auditors, tax auditors and other 
designated professionals.
During the period under review the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. mentioned above.
I further report that:
(i)	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during 
the period under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
(ii)	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance or at a shorter notice with the consent of 
Directors and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
(iii)	 All the decisions of the Board and Committees thereof were 
carried through with requisite majority.
I further report that based on the compliance mechanism 
established by the Company I am of the opinion that there are 
adequate systems and processes in the company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period, there was no event/ 
action having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance 
of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines etc.
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure-I and forms an integral part of this report.
For Manisha Saraf & Associates
Practising Company Secretary
Sd/- 
Manisha Saraf
(Proprietor)
Membership No: F7607
Certificate of Practice No: 8207
FRN: S2019WB666200 
Date: May 15, 2025 	
Peer Review Certificate No.: 2044/2022
Place: Kolkata 	
UDIN: F007607G000345441
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE - I 
To, 
The Members, 
TEGA MCNALLY MINERALS LIMITED
(Formerly known as McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited)
CIN: U28999WB1943PLC133247
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, 16th Floor, Block DP-5, 
Office Space No. 1606B, Salt Lake, Sector-V, 
Bidhannagar, Sech Bhawan, 
North 24 Parganas-700091
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
It is the responsibility of management of the Company to maintain secretarial records, devise proper systems to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that the systems are adequate and operate effectively. My 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. I believe that the process and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion. 
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Manisha Saraf & Associates
Practising Company Secretary
Sd/- 
Manisha Saraf
(Proprietor)
Membership No: F7607
Certificate of Practice No: 8207
FRN: S2019WB666200 
Date: May 15, 2025 	
Peer Review Certificate No.: 2044/2022
Place: Kolkata 	
UDIN: F007607G000345441
146
147
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
FORM AOC-1
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies/ joint ventures under section 129(3)  
read with rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
Sl.
No.
Name of the Subsidiary 
Company
Date of 
becoming 
subsidiary
Start 
date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary
End date of 
accounting 
period of 
subsidiary
Reporting 
Currency
Exchange 
Rate
Share 
Capital
Reserves 
and 
Surplus
Total 
Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Profit 
before 
Tax
Provision 
for Tax
Profit 
after 
Tax
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
Shareholding
Country
In J Million
1
Tega Holdings Pte. Limited
01-Dec-10
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
SGD
63.7100
5,141.00 
-865.57 
6190.58
1915.15
3584.39
1380.99
-127.94
-0.40
-127.54
-
100%
Singapore
2
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
27-Aug-07
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
CAD
59.6675
2.98
191.89
389.64
194.77
-   
903.31
47.99
15.32
32.67
-   
100%
Canada
3
Tega Industries Australia 
Pty Ltd
11-Jun-02
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
AUD
53.8100
4.57
91.12
111.64
15.94
                              
-   
277.34
-5.89
10.26
-16.16
-   
100%
Australia
4
Tega Do Brasil Servicos 
Tecnicos Ltda.
04-Apr-08
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
BRL
14.9382
6.73
-1.61
9.78
4.66
                              
-   
60.78
3.17
0.59
2.58
-   
99.99%
Brazil
5
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
03-Dec-10
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
AUD
53.8100
0.27
276.69
768.27
491.31
746.84
-   
-30.23
-9.43
-20.80
-   
100%
Australia
6
Tega Industries Africa 
(Pty) Ltd
12-May-06
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
ZAR
4.7075
0.00
1164.27
1409.47
245.19
-   
1645.07    
323.26
93.33
229.93
-   
100%
South 
Africa
7
Tega Investments, South 
Africa (Pty) Ltd
19-Apr-06
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
ZAR
4.7075
10.01
32.78
44.22
1.44
43.86            
-   
-0.74
                         
-   
-0.74
-   
100%
South 
Africa
8
Tega Industries, Inc. 
27-Nov-01
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
USD
85.4750
17.10
233.61
272.57
21.86
-   
612.94
20.67
5.84
14.83
-   
100%
USA
9
Tega Industries Chile SpA 
and its subsidiaries
03-Feb-11
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
CLP
0.0924
2657.33
-1059.27
4331.01
2732.96
                              
-   
3960.81
293.62
73.12
220.50
-   
100%
Chile
10
Losugen Pty Ltd
21-Dec-10
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
AUD
53.8100
0.00
306.80
396.40
89.60
 -   
682.43
61.48
18.53
42.96
-   
100%
Australia
11
Tega McNally Minerals 
Limited (formerly 
known as McNally Sayaji 
Engineering Limited)
24-Feb-23
01-04-2024
31-03-2025
INR
1.0000
656.69
1495.39
3,821.08
1,668.83
314.72
2156.61
95.12
-86.85
181.97
-   
100%
India
Sl.
No.
Name of the 
Joint venture
Latest 
audited 
Balance 
sheet date
Date on 
which Joint 
venture was 
associated 
Reporting 
Currency
No. of shares held  by 
the company in the 
Joint venture on the 
year end
Amount of 
Investment 
in Joint 
venture
Reserves 
and 
Surplus
Extend 
of 
holding
Description of how there is 
significant influence
Reason why 
the joint 
venture is not 
consolidated
Net worth 
attributable to 
shareholding as 
per latest audited 
Balance Sheet
Share of profit/loss for the year
Considered in 
consolidation
Not Considered 
in consolidation
1
Hosch Equipment 
(India) Limited
31-03-2025
29-May-10
INR
                                     
1,12,500 
                   
150.07 
                   
209.20 
50%
 Controls more than 20% of the 
total share capital and has significant 
influence over operational and 
financial decision making. 
 - 
                     
105.73
                          
44.71 
                     
44.71
Note:
1)	
Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2025.
2) 	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Tega Industries Ghana Ltd, a subsidiary of Tega Holdings Pte. Limited was incorporated w.e.f. January 04, 2025.
3)	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the current reporting year: NA
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
The Company does not have any Associate Company for the year ended as on 31.03.2025.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
149
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
148
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To 
The Members of 
Tega Industries Limited
Report On The Audit Of The 
Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Tega Industries Limited (‘the Company’), 
which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 
2025, the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Standalone Statement 
of Cash Flow and the Standalone Statement of Changes in 
Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone 
financial statements, including material accounting policy 
information and other explanatory information.
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information required 
by the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the  Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of 
the Company as at 31 March 2025, and its profit (including 
other comprehensive income), its cash flows and the changes 
in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis For Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with 
the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone 
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and 
the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and 
the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained  is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Key Audit Matter
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
5.	
We have determined the matter described below to be the key audit matter to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment Assessment on carrying value of equity 
investments in Tega Holdings Pte Limited, a wholly 
owned subsidiary 
(Refer Note 4 of the standalone financial statements)
The Company’s equity investment in subsidiaries as at 31 March 
2025 includes  investment in above mentioned wholly-owned 
subsidiary company – Tega Holding Pte Limited amounting to 
H 4,504.18 million. Such investment in the aforesaid subsidiary 
company is accounted for at cost in accordance with Ind AS 
27, Separate Financial Statements. 
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the 
following procedures:
 
 
Obtained an understanding of management’s process for 
identification of impairment indicators and impairment 
assessment with respect to investment in subsidiaries;
 
 
Evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of internal controls over  impairment assessment including 
fair valuation; 
 
 
Assessed the appropriateness of the accounting policy adopted 
by the management in accordance with Ind AS 36;
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The management assesses the recoverable amount of the 
investment when impairment indicators exist by comparing 
the fair value (less costs of disposal) and carrying amount of the 
investment as on the reporting date. The process of assessing 
the whether impairment indicators exist and computation of 
recoverable amount for investment in subsidiary company 
using discount cash flow method is complex and requires 
significant management judgement. The key assumptions 
underpinning management’s assessment of the fair valuation 
include, but are not limited to, projections of future cash flows, 
growth rates, discount rates, estimated future   operating and 
capital expenditure.
Changes to these assumptions could lead to material 
changes in estimated recoverable amounts resulting in either 
impairment or reversals of impairment in prior years.
The application of significant judgment in this matter 
required substantial involvement of senior personnel on 
the audit engagement including individuals with expertise in 
valuation. Accordingly, assessment of impairment losses to be 
recognised, if any, on the carrying value of investment made in 
the subsidiary company has been considered as be a key audit 
matter for current year’s audit.
 
 
Obtained management’s external valuation  expert’s report 
and assessed the objectivity, experience and competency of 
such management’s expert involved for performing required 
valuation to estimate the recoverable value of the  investment;
 
 
Traced the management projections of cash flow forecasts 
used in the  fair valuation to approved business plans;
 
 
Involved 
auditor’s 
valuation 
expert 
to 
validate 
the 
appropriateness of valuation methodology and assumptions 
used by management’s valuation expert in determining the 
recoverable value of the investment.
 
 
Assessed the appropriateness of assumptions around the key 
drivers of the cash flow forecasts including expected growth 
rates and terminal growth rates used, basis our understanding 
of the business and market conditions.
 
 
Evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management in 
respect of the key assumptions used in valuation model such as 
discount and growth rates to consider the impact of estimation 
uncertainty on the recoverable amount calculation;
 
 
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures 
made in the standalone financial statements in accordance with 
the requirement of the applicable accounting standards.
Information Other Than The 
Standalone Financial Statements 
And Auditor’s Report Thereon
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual Report but does not 
include the standalone financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made 
available to us after the date of this auditor's report.
	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities Of Management 
And 
Those 
Charged 
With 
Governance For The Standalone 
Financial Statements
7.	
The accompanying standalone financial statements have 
been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The 
Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect 
to the preparation and presentation of these standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view of the 
financial position, financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows 
of the Company in accordance with the Ind AS specified 
under section 133 of the Act and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
150
151
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
the preparation and presentation of the financial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
8.	
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of 
Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends 
to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
9.	
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities For 
The Audit Of The Standalone 
Financial Statements
10.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with Standards on Auditing will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis 
of these standalone financial statements.
11.	
As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Auditing, 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control;
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management;
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of Directors’ 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause the 
Company to cease to continue as a going concern; and
 
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
12.	
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
13.	
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
14.	
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
15.	
The standalone financial statements of the Company for the 
year ended 31 March 2024 were audited by the predecessor 
auditor, Price Waterhouse & Co Bangalore LLP, who have 
expressed an unmodified opinion on those standalone 
financial statements vide their audit report dated 23 May 2024.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Report On Other Legal And 
Regulatory Requirements
16.	
As required by section 197(16) of the Act, based on our 
audit, we report that the Company has paid remuneration 
to its directors during the year in accordance with the 
provisions of and limits laid down under section 197 read 
with Schedule V to the Act.
17.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of section 143(11) of the Act we give in 
the Annexure A a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
18.	
Further to our comments in Annexure A, as required by 
section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit of 
the accompanying standalone financial statements;
	
b)	
Except for the matters stated in paragraph 18(h)(vi) 
below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our 
opinion, proper books of account as required by law 
have been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books;
	
c)	
The standalone financial statements dealt with by this 
report are in agreement with the books of account;
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under section 
133 of the Act;
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors and taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 
31 March 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of section 164(2) of the Act;
	
f)	
The qualification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith are 
as stated in  paragraph 18(b) above on reporting under 
section 143(3)(b) of the Act and paragraph 18(h)(vi) 
below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
	
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Company as on 31 March 2025 and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in Annexure B wherein we have expressed an 
unmodified opinion;
	
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Company, as detailed in note 43Ato the 
standalone financial statements, has disclosed 
the impact of pending litigations on its financial 
position as at 31 March 2025.;
	
	
ii.	
The company did not have any material foreseeable 
losses on long term contracts including derivative 
contracts as at 31 March 2025;
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company during the year 
ended 31 March 2025;
	
	
iv.	
a.	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief as 
disclosed in note 49(j) to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or securities premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘the 
intermediaries’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that 
the 
intermediary 
shall, 
whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(‘the Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b.	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in note 49(k) to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘the 
Funding Parties’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall, whether directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed 
as considered reasonable and appropriate 
152
153
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
in the circumstances, nothing has come to 
our notice that has caused us to believe 
that the management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any 
material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year ended 31 March 2025 in respect of 
such dividend declared for the previous year is 
in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the 
extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
Also as stated in note 41(b) to the accompanying 
standalone financial statements, the Board of 
Directors of the Company have proposed final 
dividend for the year ended 31 March 2025 
which is subject to the approval of the members 
at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The 
dividend declared is in accordance with section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
	
	
vi.	
As stated in Note 49(m) to the standalone financial 
statements and based on our examination which 
included test checks, the Company, in respect 
of financial year commencing on 1 April 2024, 
has used an accounting software for maintaining 
its books of account which have a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same 
have been operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the software, 
except that the audit trail feature was not enabled 
at the database level for accounting software to 
log any direct data changes. Further, during the 
course of our audit we did not come across any 
instance of audit trail feature being tampered with, 
where such feature is enabled. Furthermore, the 
audit trail has been preserved by the Company 
as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention, where such feature is enabled
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Anamitra Das
Partner
Place: Gurugram	
Membership No.: 062191
Date: 15 May 2025	
UDIN: 25062191BMMMIN4570
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE A 
Referred to in paragraph 17 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Tega Industries Limited 
on the standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and 
given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit, and to the best of 
our knowledge and belief, we report that:
(i)	
(a)	
(A)	 The 
Company 
has 
maintained 
proper 
records 
showing 
full 
particulars, 
including 
quantitative details and situation of property, 
plant and equipment.
	
	
(B)	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	 The Company has a regular programme of physical 
verification of its property, plant and equipment  under 
which the assets are physically verified in a phased 
manner over a period of three years, which in our 
opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets. In accordance 
with this programme, certain property, plant and 
equipment were verified during the year and no material 
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties held 
by the Company (other than properties where the 
Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are 
duly executed in favour of the lessee), disclosed in Note 
3(b) to the standalone financial statements, are held in 
the name of the Company.
	
(d)	 The Company has not revalued its property, plant and 
equipment including right-of-use assets or intangible 
assets during the year.
	
(e)	
No proceedings have been initiated or are pending 
against the Company for holding any benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions 
Act, 1988 (as amended) and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
(a)	
The management has conducted physical verification of 
inventory at reasonable intervals during the year, except 
for goods-in-transit and inventory lying with third 
parties. In our opinion, the coverage and procedure of 
such verification by the management is appropriate and 
no discrepancies of 10% or more in the aggregate for 
each class of inventory were noticed  as compared to 
book records. In respect of inventory lying with third 
parties, these have substantially been confirmed by the 
third parties and in respect of goods-in-transit, these 
have been confirmed from corresponding receipt and 
dispatch inventory records.
	
(b)	 As disclosed in Note 47 to the standalone financial 
statements, the Company has been sanctioned a 
working capital limit in excess of Rs. 5 crores by banks 
based on the security of current assets. The quarterly 
returns, in respect of the working capital limits have 
been filed by the Company with such banks and such 
returns are in agreement with the books of account of 
the Company for the respective periods, which were 
subject to audit/review.
(iii)	 The Company has not made investments in, provided any 
guarantee or security or granted any loans or advances in 
the nature of loans to companies, firms or limited liability 
partnerships during the year. Further, the Company has 
granted  advances in the nature of loans to Others during 
the year, in respect of which:
	
(a)	
The Company has provided advances in the nature of loans to Others during the year as per details given below:
Particulars
Guarantees
Security
Loans
Advances in the 
nature of loans
(J in million)
Aggregate amount provided/ 
granted during the year (H.):
1.25
Others (Employees)
Balance outstanding  
as at balance sheet date (H.):
0.57
Others (Employees)
154
155
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Gross 
Amount 
(Jmillion)
Amount paid 
under Protest 
(J million)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Central Excise Act, 
1994
Excise Duty 
5.25
2.73  2006-07, 2007-08, 
2008-09
Customs, Excise and Service 
Tax Appellate Tribunal
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
1.30
0.38
2007-08, 2013-14
Customs, Excise and Service 
Tax Appellate Tribunal
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
5.56
-
AY 2016-17,
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
22.33 
-
AY 2017-18,
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
19.63
-
AY 2018-19
Assessing Officer
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
22.74
-
AY 2020-21
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
2.57
-
AY 2021-22
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
	
(b)	 The Company has not made any investment, provided 
any guarantee or given any security during the year 
or granted any loans during the year. However, the 
Company has granted advances in the nature of loans 
to employees, amounting to H1.25 million (year-end 
balance H0.57 million) and in our opinion, and according 
to the information and explanations given to us, such 
advances in the nature of loans granted are, prima facie, 
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
	
(c)	
In respect of loans granted by the Company, the 
schedule of repayment of principal and the payment 
of  interest has been stipulated and principal amount is 
not due for repayment currently, however, the receipts 
of the interest are regular. In respect of advances in 
the nature of loans granted to employees, the schedule 
of repayment of principal has been stipulated, and the 
repayments/receipts of principal are regular. Further, 
no interest is receivable on such advance in the 
nature of loans.
	
(d)	 There is no overdue amount in respect of loans 
and advances in the nature of loans granted to such 
companies, firms, LLPs or other parties.
	
(e)	
The Company has granted advances in the nature of 
loans which had fallen due during the year and was/
were repaid on or before the due date. Further, no 
fresh loans were granted to any party to settle the 
overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
	
(f)	
The Company has not granted any loan or advances in 
the nature of loans, which is repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
(iv)	 In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of section 186 of the Act in respect of loans and 
investments made and guarantees and security provided by it, 
as applicable. Further, the Company has not entered into any 
transaction covered under section 185 of the Act.
(v)	
In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any 
deposits or there are no amounts which have been deemed 
to be deposits within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of 
the Act and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 
2014 (as amended). Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(v) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	 The Central Government has specified maintenance of cost 
records under sub-section (1) of section 148 of the Act in 
respect of the products of the Company. We have broadly 
reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company 
pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government for 
the maintenance of cost records and are of the opinion that, 
prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been 
made and maintained. However, we have not made a detailed 
examination of the cost records with a view to determine 
whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii)	 (a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, undisputed statutory dues 
including goods and services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, 
service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value 
added tax, cess and other material statutory dues, as 
applicable, have generally been regularly deposited with 
the appropriate authorities by the Company, though 
there have been slight delays in a few cases. Further, no 
undisputed amounts payable in respect thereof were 
outstanding at the year-end for a period of more than 
six months from the date they became payable.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, we report that there are no statutory dues referred in sub-clause 
(a) which have not been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of any dispute except for the following:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Gross 
Amount 
(Jmillion)
Amount paid 
under Protest 
(J million)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
West Bengal Value
Added Tax Act, 2003
Value Added Tax
0.41
-
AY 2013-14
Deputy Commissioner of
Commercial Tax
West Bengal Value
Added Tax Act, 2003
Value Added Tax
3.95
0.21
AY 2016-17 
West Bengal Commercial 
Taxes Appellate & Revisional 
Board
Central GST Act,2017
Good and 
Service Tax
5.61
-
AY 2017-18
Adjudication Authority
The West Bengal Tax 
on Entry of Goods into 
Local Areas Act, 2012
Entry Tax
30.03
-
2013-14 to  
2017-18
High Court at Kolkata
(viii)	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us, we report that no transactions were surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) which have not 
been previously recorded in the books of accounts.
(ix)	 (a)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of its loans or borrowings or in 
the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us including confirmations received from banks/ 
financial institution and representation received from 
the management of the Company, and on the basis of our 
audit procedures, we report that the Company has not 
been declared a willful defaulter by any bank or financial 
institution or government or any government authority.
	
(c)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not raised 
any money by way of term loans during the year and 
there has been no utilisation during the current year 
of the term loans obtained by the Company during 
any previous years. Accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, and on an overall examination 
of the financial statements of the Company, funds raised 
by the Company on short term basis have, prima facie, 
not been utilised for long term purposes.
	
(e)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and on an overall examination 
of the financial statements of the Company, the 
Company has not taken any funds from any entity or 
person on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries or joint ventures.
	
(f)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not raised 
any loans during the year on the pledge of securities 
held in its subsidiaries or joint ventures.
(x)	 (a)	
The Company has not raised any money by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including debt 
instruments), during the year. Accordingly, reporting 
under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of shares 
or (fully, partially or optionally) convertible debentures 
during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)
(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi)	 (a)	
To the best of our knowledge and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the 
Company or no fraud on the Company has been noticed 
or reported during the period covered by our audit.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us including the representation made to us by the 
management of the Company, no report under sub-
section 12 of section 143 of the Act has been filed 
by the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under 
rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, with the Central Government for the period 
covered by our audit.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us including the representation made to us 
by the management of the Company, there are no 
whistle-blower complaints received by the Company 
during the year.
156
157
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi Rules, 
2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)	In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, all transactions entered into by 
the Company with the related parties are in compliance 
with sections 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable. 
Further, the details of such related party transactions have 
been disclosed in the standalone financial statements, as 
required under Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, 
Related Party Disclosures specified in Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 as prescribed under 
section 133 of the Act.
(xiv)	(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has an internal 
audit system which is commensurate with the size and 
nature of its business as required under the provisions 
of section 138 of the Act.
	
(b)	 We have considered the reports issued by the 
Internal Auditors of the Company till date for the 
period under audit.
(xv)	 According to the information and explanation given to us, 
the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions 
with its directors or persons connected with its directors 
and accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xv) of the Order 
with respect to compliance with the provisions of section 
192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	The Company is not required to be registered under section 
45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, 
reporting under clauses 3(xvi)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order are 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 Based on the information and explanations given 
to us and as represented by the management of the 
Company, the Group (as defined in Core Investment 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does 
not have any CIC.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the 
current financial year as well as the immediately preceding 
financial year.
(xviii) There has been resignation of the statutory auditors during 
the year and based on the information and explanations given 
to us by the management and the response received by us 
pursuant to our communication with the outgoing auditors, 
there have been no issues, objections or concerns raised by 
the outgoing auditors
(xix)	According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial 
liabilities, other information in the standalone financial 
statements, our knowledge of the plans of the Board of 
Directors and management and based on our examination of 
the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come 
to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report indicating 
that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, 
state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of 
the company. We further state that our reporting is based on 
the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither 
give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling 
due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, 
will get discharged by the company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the Company does not have any unspent amounts towards 
Corporate Social Responsibility in respect of any ongoing or 
other than ongoing project as at the end of the financial year. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xxi)	The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial 
statements of the Company. Accordingly, no comment has 
been included in respect of said clause under this report.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Anamitra Das
Partner
Place: Gurugram	
Membership No.: 062191
Date: 15 May 2025	
UDIN: 25062191BMMMIN4570
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE B
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) 
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the financial statements of 
Tega Industries Limited (‘the Company’) as at and for the 
year ended 31 March 2025, we have audited the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements of 
the Company as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management 
and 
those 
Charged 
with 
Governance 
for 
Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of the Company’s 
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the 
Audit of the Internal Financial 
Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) 
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements, and the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the ICAI. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements were 
established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements includes obtaining an 
understanding of such internal financial controls, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial 
Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company's internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements include those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
158
159
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the company's assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls 
with Reference to Financial 
Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies 
or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and such controls were operating effectively as at 
31 March 2025, based on the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Anamitra Das
Partner
Place: Gurugram	
Membership No.: 062191
Date: 15 May 2025	
UDIN: 25062191BMMMIN4570
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET 
as at 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 1,457.05 
 1,387.74 
Right-of-Use Assets
3(b)
 315.72 
 294.13 
Capital work in progress
3(c)
 37.05 
 67.97 
Intangible assets
3(d)
 56.09 
 32.07 
Intangible assets under development
3(e)
 - 
 1.86 
Financial assets
	
(i)	
Investment in subsidiaries and joint venture
4
 5,324.17 
 5,324.17 
	
(ii)	 Loans
13(a)
 - 
 196.00 
	
(iii)	 Other financial assets
5
 19.63 
 37.01 
Income tax assets (net)
6
 50.99 
 78.47 
Other non-current assets
7
 11.37 
 9.84 
Total non-current assets
 7,272.07 
 7,429.26 
Current assets
Inventories
8
 2,105.84 
 2,076.26 
Financial assets
	
(i)	
Investments
9
 2,082.74 
 2,312.91 
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
10(a)
 3,351.10 
 2,338.60 
	
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
11
 52.48 
 37.71 
	
(iv)	 Other bank balances
12
 0.46 
 2.77 
	
(v)	 Loans
13(b)
 201.44 
 0.12 
	
(vi)	 Other financial assets
14
 47.49 
 55.40 
Contract assets
10(b)
 4.36 
 9.94 
Other current assets
15
 440.67 
 280.70 
Total current assets
 8,286.58 
 7,114.41 
Total assets
 15,558.65 
 14,543.67 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
16
 665.35 
 665.35 
Other equity
18
12,414.75
 10,789.81 
Total equity
13,080.10
 11,455.16 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
19
 66.00 
 180.09 
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities 
3(b)
 22.43 
 3.22 
	
(iii)	 Other financial liabilities
20
 3.88 
 9.49 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
21
 22.17 
 0.74 
Total non-current liabilities
 114.48 
 193.54 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
22
 961.02 
 1,066.43 
	
(ii)	 Lease Liabilities 
3(b)
 12.54 
 6.17 
	
(iii)	 Trade payables
	
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
23
 78.10 
 102.06 
	
	
(b	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and         small 
enterprises
23
 596.11 
 719.98 
	
(iv)	 Other financial liabilities
24
 146.04 
 170.64 
Provisions
25
 113.60 
 89.69 
Current tax liabilities (net)
26
 95.15 
 43.56 
Other current liabilities
27
 361.51 
 696.44 
Total current liabilities
 2,364.07 
 2,894.97 
Total liabilities
 2,478.55 
 3,088.51 
Total equity and liabilities
15,558.65
 14,543.67 
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
standalone financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
160
161
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue from operations
28
 8,950.96 
 7,368.40 
Other income
29
 556.44 
 289.80 
Total income
 9,507.40 
 7,658.20 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
30
 3,848.35 
 3,421.37 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress
31
 218.52 
 (323.07)
Employee benefits expense
32
 836.35 
 787.85 
Finance costs
33
 81.40 
 106.86 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
34
 241.03 
 200.23 
Other expenses
35
1,977.18
 1,827.18 
Total expenses
7,202.83
 6,020.42 
Profit before tax
2,304.57
 1,637.78 
Income tax expense
	
Current tax
36
 523.50 
 375.03 
	
Deferred tax
36
 21.83 
 (2.26)
Total tax expense
 545.33 
 372.77 
Profit for the year (A)
1,759.24
 1,265.01 
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
(a)	 Remeasurement gain/ (loss) on post employment defined benefit plans
32.1
 (1.64)
 2.13 
(b)	 Income tax related to the above
36
 0.41 
 (0.54)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
(a)	 Fair value changes of cash flow hedges
39(iv)
 - 
 7.70 
(b)	 Income tax related to the above
36
 - 
 (1.94)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (B)
 (1.23)
 7.35 
Total comprehensive income for the year (A+B)
1,758.01
 1,272.36 
Earnings per equity share: (Nominal value per share H 10/-)
	
Basic (in H)
40
 26.44 
 19.04 
	
Diluted (in H)
40
 26.44 
 18.98 
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
standalone financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
Reserve and surplus
Other 
reserves
Total other 
equity
Securities 
Premium
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Share options 
outstanding 
account
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
Balance as at 01 April 2024
18
 907.76 
 337.98 
 9,538.08 
 0.23 
 5.76 
 10,789.81 
Exercise of options - proceeds received
46
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer within equity - other adjustments
 - 
 - 
 5.99 
 (0.23)
 (5.76)
 - 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 1,759.24 
 - 
 - 
 1,759.24 
Other comprehensive income [net of tax]
 - 
 - 
 (1.23)
 - 
 - 
 (1.23)
Transaction with owners in their 
capacity as owners
Dividend paid
41(b)
 - 
 - 
 (133.07)
 - 
 - 
 (133.07)
Balance as at 31st March 2025
 907.76 
 337.98 11,169.01 
 - 
 - 
12,414.75 
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
Amount
As at 1 April 2023
 663.54 
Changes during the year
Exercise of options - proceeds received
16
 1.81 
As at 31 March 2024
 665.35 
Changes during the year
16
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 665.35 
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
A. Equity Share Capital
B. Other Equity
162
163
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
Reserve and surplus
Other 
reserves
Total other 
equity
Securities 
Premium
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Share options 
outstanding 
account
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
Balance as at 1 April 2023
18
 903.79 
 337.98 
 8,404.38 
 0.42 
 - 
 9,646.57 
Exercise of options - proceeds received
46
 3.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.78 
Transfer within equity - exercise of 
options
46
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 (0.19)
 - 
 - 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 1,265.01 
 - 
 - 
 1,265.01 
Other comprehensive income [net of tax]
 - 
 - 
 1.59 
 - 
 5.76 
 7.35 
Transaction with owners in their 
capacity as owners
Dividend paid
41(b)
 - 
 - 
 (132.90)
 - 
 - 
 (132.90)
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 907.76 
 337.98 
 9,538.08 
 0.23 
 5.76 
 10,789.81 
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
standalone financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
A.	 Cash Flow from Operating Activities
	
Profit before tax 
2,304.57
 1,637.78 
	
Adjustments for:
	
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
 241.03 
 200.23 
	
Finance costs
 81.40 
 106.56 
	
Interest income 
 (16.32)
 (34.73)
	
Allowance for expected credit loss (including bad debt and advances written off)
 23.91 
 40.26 
	
Claims/ liquidating damages
 16.28 
 (0.07)
	
Net fair value (gain)/ loss on investments classified at FVTPL
 (110.37)
 (145.51)
	
Net (gain) on sale of investments classified at FVTPL
 (63.81)
 (23.17)
	
Mark to Market (gain)/ loss on derivative instrument (net)
 57.97 
 30.39 
	
Derivative settlement (net)
 (32.85)
 (31.20)
	
(Gain)/ loss on sale of property, plant and equipment including intangible assets  
(net of loss on assets scrapped/ written off)
 1.88 
 2.19 
	
Dividend income
 (135.00)
 (11.25)
	
Provision for warranty expenses
 26.87 
 15.97 
	
Provision for slow moving/ non- moving and obsolete inventories
 25.71 
 11.40 
	
Other non cash items
 3.84 
 (4.30)
	
Liabilities no longer required, written back
 (45.68)
 - 
	
Effect of unrealised exchange differences (net)
 (163.79)
 (35.82)
Operating profit before working capital changes
2,215.64
 1,758.73 
Changes in Working Capital: 
	
(Increase)/ decrease in Non Current/ Current financial and other assets
 (1,096.51)
 (345.28)
	
(Increase)/ decrease in Inventories
 (55.28)
 (602.80)
	
Increase/ (decrease) in Non Current/ Current financial and other liabilities/ provisions
 (450.02)
 594.02 
Cash Generated from Operations 
613.83
 1,404.67 
	
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
 (446.50)
 (354.51)
Net cash generated from operating activities
167.33
 1,050.16 
B.	 Cash flow from Investing Activities
	
Purchase of capital assets
 (334.12)
 (327.63)
	
Sale of capital assets
 0.48 
 4.07 
	
Payment for purchase of investments
 (1,414.10)
 (2,482.50)
	
Proceeds from sale of investments
 1,818.46 
 2,231.35 
	
Deposits with banks placed
 - 
 (2.50)
	
Deposits with banks matured
 2.32 
 7.72 
	
Interest received
 16.94 
 15.44 
	
Dividend received from joint venture
 135.00 
 11.25 
Net cash (used in) investing activities  
 224.98 
 (542.80)
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
164
165
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
Notes:
1.	
The above standalone statement of cash flow has been prepared under the Indirect Method as set out in Ind AS - 7  "Statement 
of Cash Flows".
2.	
During the year non-cash transaction from Investing and Financing Activities with respect to acquisition of Right-of-Use Assets with 
corresponding adjustments to Lease Liabilities H 38.62 Mn (31 March 2024: H Nill).
3.	
Refer note 41(c) for reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities.
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
C.	 Cash flow from Financing Activities
	
Proceeds from issue of equity shares
 - 
 5.59 
	
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (175.60)
 (188.70)
	
Proceeds from/ (repayment of) short term borrowings (net)
 (15.44)
 (110.15)
	
Derivative settlement (net)
 32.85 
 31.20 
	
Finance cost paid
 (76.58)
 (108.23)
	
Finance cost paid on account of lease liabilities
 (1.20)
 (1.11)
	
Repayment of lease liabilities
 (8.78)
 (6.91)
	
Dividend Paid to equity shareholders
 (133.07)
 (132.90)
Net cash (used in) financing activities  
 (377.82)
 (511.21)
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  
14.49
 (3.85)
	
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (Refer Note 11)
 37.71 
 42.11 
	
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
 0.28 
 (0.55)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Refer Note 11)
52.48
 37.71 
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
standalone financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
1.	 Company Information
	
Tega Industries Limited (“Tega” or "Company") is a public 
limited company incorporated in India with its registered 
office at Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, Office No. 807, 8th 
Floor, Block DP-5, Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, Kolkata 
– 700 091 West Bengal, India and engaged in the business 
of manufacturing and distribution of specialized ‘critical to 
operate’ and recurring consumable products for the global 
mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk solids handling industry. 
It was promoted by Mohanka Family in 1976 in technical and 
financial collaboration with Skega AB, Sweden.
	
The Company's equity shares are listed on the BSE Limited 
and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
	
The Corporate identification number of the company is 
L25199WB1976PLC030532
	
The standalone financial statements as at 31 March 2025 
present the financial position of the Company.
	
The standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 
March 2025 were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 15 May 2025.
2.	 Summary 
of 
Material 
Accounting Policies
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to 
all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1	Basis Of Preparation
	
(i)	 Compliance With Ind As
	
	
These standalone financial statements have been 
prepared to comply in all material aspects with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 
133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) [Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2016] and other relevant provisions of the Act.
	
(ii)	Historical Cost Convention
	
	
The standalone financial statements have been 
prepared as going concern on accrual basis and under 
the historical cost convention except for the following 
assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair 
value or revalued amount:
	
	
-	
certain financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value (refer accounting policy regarding 
financial instruments);
	
	
-	
defined 
benefit 
plans 
– 
plan 
assets 
measured at fair value;
	
	
-	
share-based payments
	
(iii)	Current 
Versus 
Non 
Current 
Classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current 
or non-current as per the Company’s operating cycle 
and other criteria set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) and Schedule III to the Companies 
Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the 
time between the acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the 
Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 
months for the purpose of current – non-current 
classification of assets and liabilities.
2.2	New And Amended Standards 
Adopted By The Company
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs notified new standards or 
amendment to existing standards under Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time.
	
The Company applied following amendments for the first-time 
during the current year which are effective from 1 April 2024:
	
Amendments To Ind As 116-Lease 
Liability In A Sale And Leaseback
	
The amendments require an entity to recognise lease liability 
including variable lease payments which are not linked to 
index or a rate in a way it does not result into gain on Right 
of Use asset it retains.
	
Notification Of Ind As 117
	
MCA notified Ind AS 117, a comprehensive standard 
that prescribe, recognition, measurement and disclosure 
requirements, to avoid diversities in practice for accounting 
insurance contracts and it applies to all companies i.e., to all 
"insurance contracts" regardless of the issuer. However, Ind 
AS 117 is not applicable to the entities which are insurance 
companies registered with IRDAI.
	
The Company has reviewed the new pronouncements 
and based on its evaluation has determined that these 
amendments do not have a significant impact on the 
Standalone Financial Statements.
166
167
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
2.3	Property, Plant And Equipment
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of 
property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost net 
of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment, 
if any. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the items.
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount 
or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it 
is probable that future economic benefits associated with the 
item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is derecognised when 
replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to 
the statement of profit and loss during the reporting period 
in which they are incurred.
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Depreciation
	
i)	
Depreciation is calculated using a straight-line method 
to allocate the cost of the assets, net of their residual 
values, over their estimated useful lives as specified 
by Schedule II to the Act, wherever applicable. The 
estimated useful lives of the property, plant and 
equipment have been presented below:
Class of Assets
Estimated useful 
life (in years)
Buildings
30 - 60 years
Plant and equipments*
3- 15 years
Furniture and fixtures
10 years
Vehicles
5-8 years
Office equipments
5 years
Electrical installations
10 years
	
	
*For these class of assets, based on internal assessment and independent 
technical evaluation carried out by external valuers, the Company 
believes that the useful lives as given above best represent the year over 
which Company expects to use these assets. Hence, the useful lives for 
these assets are different from the useful lives as prescribed under Part 
C of Schedule II to the Act.
	
ii)	
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the 
shorter of their useful life or the lease term, unless the 
entity expects to use the assets beyond the lease term.
	
	
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed 
by the management, and adjusted if appropriate, at the 
end of each reporting period.
2.4	Intangible Assets
	
Intangible assets are stated at cost of acquisition net of 
accumulated  amortisation and accumulated impairment, if 
any. Costs associated with maintaining software programs are 
recognised as an expense as incurred.
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Amortisation 
	
The company amortises computer software using straight- 
line method over the following period:
Class of assets
Estimated useful 
life (in years)
Software
3 Years
	
Research and Development Expenditure
	
Research expenditure and development expenditure that 
do not meet the criterias mentioned below are recognised 
as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously 
recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in 
a subsequent period. Property, plant and equipment used in 
Research and Development are capitalised.
	
Development costs are recognised as intangible assets when 
the following criteria are met:
	
1.	
it is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset 
so that it will be available for use
	
2.	
management intends to complete the intangible asset 
and use or sell it
	
3.	
there is an ability to use or sell the intangible asset
	
4.	
it can be demonstrated how the intangible asset will 
generate probable future economic benefits
	
5.	
adequate technical, financial and other resources 
to complete the development and to use or sell the 
intangible asset are available, and
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
	
6.	
the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset 
during its development can be reliably measured.”
	
Capitalised development costs are recorded as intangible 
assets and amortised from the point at which the asset is 
available for use.
2.5	Impairment
	
At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying 
values of its property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that the 
carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable through 
continuing use. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is reviewed in order to determine 
the extent of impairment, if any. Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
	
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to 
sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have 
not been adjusted. An impairment loss is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss as and when the carrying value 
of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
	
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
value of the asset (or cash generating unit) is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount so that the 
increased carrying value does not exceed the carrying value 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss 
been recognised for the asset (or cash generating unit) in 
prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss immediately.
2.6	Investments In Subsidiaries And 
Joint Venture
	
Investments in subsidiaries and joint venture are carried at 
cost less accumulated impairment, if any. Where an indication 
of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment 
is assessed and written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount. On disposal of investments in subsidiaries and joint 
venture, the difference between net disposal proceeds and 
the carrying amounts are recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss.
2.7	Financial Instruments
	
The financial assets are classified in the following categories:
	
(i)	
financial assets measured at amortised cost,
	
(ii)	
financial assets measured at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL), and
	
(iii)	 financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI).”
	
The classification of financial assets depends on the 
Company’s business model for managing financial assets and 
the contractual terms of the cash flow. For assets measured 
at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in 
statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income. 
The Company reclassifies debt investments when and only 
when its business model for managing those assets changes.
	
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised 
on trade-date, being the date on which the Company 
commits to purchase or sale the financial asset.
	
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial 
asset (excluding trade receivables which do not contain a 
significant financing component) at its fair value plus, in the 
case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or 
loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial 
assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed 
in statement of profit and loss.
	
Investment in debt instruments
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends 
on the Company’s model of managing the assets and the 
cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three 
measurement categories in which the Company classifies its 
debt instruments.
	
Financial assets measured at amortised 
cost
	
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows 
where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal 
and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income 
from these financial assets are included in Other Income using 
the effective interest rate method. After initial recognition, 
such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or 
loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in the 
statement of profit and loss and presented in other gains/
(losses). The losses arising from impairment are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss.
168
169
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
	
Financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
	
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business model whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets 
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, 
except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, 
interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which 
are recognised in statement of profit and loss. When the 
financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to 
profit and loss and recognised in other gains/ (losses). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included in other income 
using the effective interest rate method. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses are presented in other gains/ (losses) and 
impairment expenses are presented as separate line item in 
the statement of profit and loss.
	
Financial assets measured at fair value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or 
FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which 
it arises. Interest income from these financial assets are 
included in other income.
	
Investments in units of mutual funds are subsequently 
measured at FVTPL and the changes in fair value are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
De-recognition of financial asset
	
A financial asset is derecognised only when
 
 
The Company has transferred the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial asset or
 
 
Retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of 
the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation 
to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients.
	
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Company 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In such cases, 
the financial asset is derecognised. Where the entity has not 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset, the financial asset is not derecognised.
	
Where the entity has neither transferred a financial asset 
nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset, the financial asset is derecognised if 
the Company has not retained control of the financial asset. 
Where the Company retains control of the financial asset, 
the asset is continued to be recognised to the extent of 
continuing involvement in the financial asset.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the 
expected credit losses associated with its assets carried at 
amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments. The impairment 
methodology applied depends on whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk.
	
For trade receivables only, the Company applies the simplified 
approach required by Ind AS 109, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of 
the receivables.
	
Trade receivables
	
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods 
sold or services rendered in the ordinary course of business and 
reflects Company’s unconditional right to consideration (that is, 
payment is due only on the passage of time). Trade receivables are 
recognised initially at the transaction price as they do not contain 
significant financing component. The Company holds the trade 
receivables with the objective of collecting the contractual cash 
flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method, less loss allowance.
	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash 
flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, 
demand deposits with banks, other short term highly liquid 
investments, if any, with original maturities of three months 
or less that are readily convertible to known amount of cash 
and subject to an insignificant change in value.
	
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
	
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss over the period of the 
borrowings using the effective interest rate method. Fees 
paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as 
transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable 
that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
	
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled 
or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a 
financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to 
another party and the consideration paid, including any non-
cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss as other gains/ (losses).
	
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the 
Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of 
the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period. 
Where there is a breach of a material provision of a long-
term loan arrangement on or before the end of the reporting 
period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on 
demand on the reporting date, the entity does not classify 
the liability as current, if the lender agreed, after the reporting 
period and before the approval of the financial statements for 
issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of the breach.
	
Trade and other payables
	
Trade and other payables represent current liabilities for 
goods and services provided to the Company prior to the 
end of the financial year which are unpaid. The amount 
are unsecured and are usually paid within 30-90 days of 
recognition. Trade and other payables are presented as 
current liabilities unless payment is not due within 12 months 
after the reporting period. They are recognised initially at 
their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method.
	
De-recognition of financial liabilities
	
A financial liability (or a part of financial liability) is de-
recognised from Company’s balance sheet when obligation 
specified in the contract is discharged, or cancelled, or expired.
	
Derivative 
instruments 
and 
hedge 
accounting
	
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes 
and not as speculative investments. The Company uses 
certain derivative financial instruments to reduce business 
risks which arise from its exposure to foreign exchange 
and interest rate fluctuations. The instruments are confined 
principally to forward foreign exchange contracts and 
interest rate swaps and options.
	
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting 
period. Net mark to market gains/ losses on derivatives 
taken by the Company are recorded in other income/ 
expenses respectively.
	
The Company adopts hedge accounting for forward foreign 
exchange contracts wherever possible. At inception of each 
hedge, there is a formal, documented designation of the 
hedging relationship. This documentation includes, inter alia, 
items such as identification of the hedged item and transaction 
and nature of the risk being hedged. At inception, each hedge 
is expected to be highly effective in achieving an offset of 
changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged 
risk. The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce the 
risk associated with the exposure being hedged is assessed 
and measured at the inception and on an ongoing basis. 
The ineffective portion of designated hedges is recognised 
immediately in the statement of profit and loss.
	
When hedge accounting is applied:
 
 
for fair value hedges of recognised assets and liabilities, 
changes in fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities 
attributable to the risk being hedged, are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss and compensate for 
the effective portion of symmetrical changes in the fair 
value of the derivatives.
 
 
for cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change 
in the fair value of the derivative is recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income and the ineffective 
portion is recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or 
forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a 
non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset 
or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
on the derivative that had previously been recognised 
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the 
asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, amounts 
deferred in equity are recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss in the same period in which the hedged 
item affects the statement of profit and loss.
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or 
no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any 
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised 
in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is 
transferred to the statement of profit and loss for the period.
2.8	 Offsetting Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount 
is reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is 
an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle 
170
171
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not 
be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the 
normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency 
or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
2.9 Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost of raw materials and traded goods comprises cost 
of purchases. Cost of work-in-progress and finished goods 
comprises direct materials, direct labours and an appropriate 
proportion of variable and fixed overhead expenditure, 
the latter being allocated on the basis of normal operating 
capacity. Cost of inventories also include all other costs 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Costs are assigned to individual items of 
inventory on the basis of weighted-average cost method. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less the estimated costs of completion 
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
2.10 Revenue Recognition
	
Revenue shall be recognised to depict the transfer of 
promised goods or services to customers in an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
	
Sale of goods
	
Sales are recognised when control of the products has been 
transferred to the buyer, being when the products are dispatched/ 
delivered to the customer depending on the contract terms. 
This occurs when the products have been shipped or delivered 
to the specific location as the case may be, the risk of loss 
has been transferred, and either the customer has accepted 
the products in accordance with the sales contract, or the 
Company has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance 
has been satisfied. Revenue from contract with customers is 
primarily recorded at a point in time. Revenue is recognised 
based on the price specified in the contract.
	
No element of financing is deemed present as the sales are 
generally made with a credit term upto 180 days which is 
consistent with market practice.
	
Sale of services
	
Revenue from service contracts are recognised in the 
accounting period in which the services are rendered.
	
Some contracts include multiple performance obligations, 
such as sale of product and certain related services. However, 
the services are simple, does not include an integration service 
and could be performed by another party. It is therefore 
accounted for as a separate performance obligation. Where 
the contracts include multiple performance obligations, 
the transaction price is allocated to each performance 
obligation based on the stand-alone selling prices. Where 
these are not directly observable, they are estimated based 
on the expected cost plus margin. If contracts include the 
installation of product, revenue for the product is recognized 
at a point in time when the product is delivered, the legal title 
has passed and the customer has accepted the product.
	
A receivable is recognised when the goods are dispatched 
or delivered, depending on the contract terms, as this is the 
point in time that the consideration is unconditional because 
only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.
	
A contract asset is recognised in respect of those 
performance obligations where the control of the goods 
has been transferred to the buyer, and only delivery of the 
goods is pending. In these cases the consideration is due 
after the shipping obligation is complete, accordingly these 
are classified as contract assets as the consideration is 
conditional on something other than passage of time.
	
The Company does not have any contracts where the period 
between the transfer of the promised goods or services to 
the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one 
year. As a consequence, the Company does not adjust any of 
the transaction prices for the time value of money.
	
The Company generally provides for warranties which 
are assurance-type warranties under Ind AS 115, and are 
accounted for under In AS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
2.11 Other Income
	
Interest: Interest income from financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss is disclosed as interest income 
within other income. Interest income on financial assets at 
amortised cost and financial assets at FVOCI is calculated 
using the effective interest rate method and recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss as part of other income.
	
Interest income is calculated by applying the effective interest 
rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset except 
for financial assets that subsequently become credit-impaired. 
For credit-impaired financial assets the effective interest rate 
is applied to the net carrying amount of the financial asset 
(after deduction of the loss allowance).
	
Dividend: Dividends are received from financial assets at 
fair value through profit or loss and at FVOCI. Dividends are 
recognised as other income in the statement of profit and 
loss when the right to receive payment is established.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
2.12	 Government Grants
	
(i)	
Grants from the government are recognised at their 
fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received and the Company will comply 
with all attached conditions.
	
(ii)	
Government grants relating to income are deferred and 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss over the 
period necessary to match them with the costs that 
they are intended to compensate and presented within 
other operating revenue.
2.13 Borrowing Costs
	
Borrowing costs include interest, other costs incurred in 
connection with borrowing and exchange differences arising 
from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are 
regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost.
	
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, 
are capitalised during the period of time that is required to 
complete and prepare the assets for its intended use or sale. 
Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of 
specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying 
assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for 
capitalisation.
	
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in 
which they are incurred.
2.14 Foreign Currencies Translation
	
Functional and presentation currency
	
Items included in the financial statements are measured using 
the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is Tega 
Industries Limited’s functional and presentation currency.
	
Initial Recognition: On initial recognition, all foreign currency 
transactions are recorded by applying to the foreign currency 
amount the exchange rate between the reporting currency 
and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction.
	
Subsequent Recognition: Foreign currency denominated 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the 
relevant functional currency at exchange rates in effect at 
the balance sheet date. The gains or losses resulting from 
such translations are included in net profit in the statement 
of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and non-monetary 
liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured 
at fair value are translated at the exchange rate prevalent 
at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation 
differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair value are 
reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Non-monetary 
assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign 
currency and measured at historical cost are translated at 
the exchange rate prevalent at the date of transaction.
2.15 Employee Benefits
	
a)	 Short-term employee benefits:
	
	
Short-term Employee Benefits (i.e. benefits payable 
within one year) are recognised in the period in which 
employee services are rendered.
	
b)	 Defined contribution plans
	
	
Provident fund
	
	
This is a defined contribution plan for certain 
employees and contributions are remitted to Provident 
Fund authorities in accordance with relevant statute 
and charged to the statement of profit and loss in the 
period in which the related employee services are 
rendered. The Company has no further obligations 
for future Provident Fund benefits other than its 
monthly contributions.
	
	
Superannuation fund
	
	
This is a defined contribution plan. The Company 
contributes a certain percentage of the eligible salary 
for employees covered under the scheme towards 
superannuation fund administered by the Trustees. 
The Company has no further obligations for future 
superannuation benefits other than its contributions and 
recognizes such contributions as expense in the period 
in which the related employee services are rendered.
	
c)	 Defined benefit plans
	
	
Gratuity
	
	
For defined benefit retirement schemes the cost of 
providing benefits is determined using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuation being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Re-measurement 
gains and losses of the net defined benefit liability/(asset) 
are recognised immediately in other comprehensive 
income. The service cost and net interest on the 
net defined benefit liability/(asset) is treated as a net 
expense within employment costs.
172
173
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
	
	
Past service cost is recognised as an expense when the 
plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when any 
related restructuring costs or termination benefits are 
recognised, whichever is earlier.
	
	
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the 
balance sheet represents the present value of the 
defined-benefit obligation as reduced by the fair 
value plan assets.
	
d)	 Other long-term employee benefits:
	
	
Compensated absences
	
	
Accumulated compensated absences which 
are 
expected to be availed or encashed within twelve months 
from the year end are treated as short term employee 
benefits. The obligation towards the same is measured 
at the expected cost of accumulating compensated 
absences as the additional amount expected to be paid 
as a result of the unused entitlements as at the year end.
	
	
Accumulated compensated absences which 
are 
expected to be availed or encashed beyond twelve 
months from the year end are treated as other long 
term employee benefits. The Company’s liability is 
actuarially determined (using the Projected Unit Credit 
method) at the end of each year. Actuarial loss/gains are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss in the 
year in which they arise.
	
e)	 Share based payments
	
	
Share-based compensation benefits are provided to 
employees via the Tega Industries Limited Employee 
Stock Option Scheme namely ESOP Scheme 2011. 
Employees of the Company receive remuneration in 
the form of share-based payments, whereby employees 
render services as consideration for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
	
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by 
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using 
an appropriate valuation model. That cost is recognised, 
together with a corresponding increase in Employee 
Stock Options Outstanding Account in equity, over 
the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled, in Employee Benefit Expense. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. Service 
and non-market performance conditions are not taken 
into account when determining the grant date fair value 
of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions being met 
is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
Market performance conditions are reflected within the 
grant date fair value. The dilutive effect of outstanding 
options is reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.
2.16 Current and Deferred Tax
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period’s taxable income based on 
the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted 
by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable 
to temporary differences and to unused tax losses. 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis 
of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end 
of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. 
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
	
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in 
the financial statements. Deferred income tax is also not 
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction other than a business combination 
that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting 
profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). Deferred income tax is 
determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period 
and are expected to apply when the related deferred income 
tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is 
settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available to 
utilise those temporary differences and losses.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and 
liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the 
same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities 
are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to 
offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss, except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
2.17 Provision 
and 
Contingent 
Liabilities
	
The Company recognises a provision where there is a 
present obligation as a result of a past event that probably 
requires an outflow of resources and a reliable estimate can 
be made of the amount of the obligation. However, provisions 
are not recognised for future operating losses.
	
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the 
likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. 
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow 
with respect to any one item included in the same class of 
obligations may be small.
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a 
possible obligation or a present obligation that may, but probably 
will not, require an outflow of resources or there is a present 
obligation, reliable estimate of the amount of which cannot 
be made. Where there is a possible obligation or a present 
obligation and the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, 
no provision or disclosure for contingent liability is made.
	
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
present obligation at the end of the reporting period. The 
discount rate used to determine the present value is a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. 
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is 
recognised as interest expense.
	
Provision for warranty
	
The estimated liability for warranty is recorded when 
products are sold. These estimates are established using 
historical information on the nature, frequency and average 
cost of obligations and management estimates regarding 
possible future incidence based on corrective actions on 
product failure.
2.18 Earnings Per Share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net profit or 
loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during 
the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s 
earnings per share is the net profit or loss for the period. 
The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period and for all periods presented is adjusted 
for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of 
potential equity shares, if any, that have changed the number 
of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change 
in resources. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings 
per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of 
shares outstanding during the period are adjusted for the 
effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
2.19 Segment Reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker.
	
The executive committee (which consist of Chairman, 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Head Product 
Management Group and Global Marketing, Head Global 
Operations, Head Global Finance (Chief Financial Officer), 
Head Human Resource and Company Secretary) has been 
identified as the chief operating decision maker (‘CODM’) 
(Refer note 42).
2.20 Leases
	
The Company as lessee
	
The Company accounts for each lease component within the 
contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of 
the contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to 
each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone 
price of the lease component and the aggregate stand-alone 
price of the non-lease components. The Company recognizes 
right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying 
asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. 
The cost of the right of-use asset measured at inception 
comprises of the amount of initial measurement of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease incentive received, 
any initial direct costs and restoration costs.
	
Certain lease arrangements include options to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. 
The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities include these 
options when it is reasonably certain that such options 
would be exercised.
	
The right-of-use assets is subsequently measured at cost 
less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment 
losses, if any and adjusted for any re-measurement of the 
lease liability. The right-of-use assets is depreciated using the 
straight-line method from the commencement date over the 
shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset.
	
Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever 
there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not 
be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
174
175
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
	
Lease liability is measured at the present value of the 
following lease payments:
 
 
fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), 
less any lease incentives receivable
 
 
variable lease payment that are based on an index or a 
rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date
 
 
amounts expected to be payable by the Company 
under residual value guarantees
 
 
the exercise price of a purchase option if the Company 
is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and
 
 
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the 
lease term reflects the Company exercising that option.
	
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain 
extension options are also included in the measurement 
of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using the 
interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily 
determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the 
Company uses incremental borrowing rate. 
	
To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company:
 
 
where possible, uses recent third-party financing 
received by the individual lessee as a starting point, 
adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions since 
third party financing was received
 
 
uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free 
interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held by 
Tega Industries Limited, which does not have recent 
third party financing
 
 
makes adjustments specific to the lease, e.g. term, 
country, currency and security
	
If a readily observable amortising loan rate is available to the 
individual lessee (through recent financing or market data) 
which has a similar payment profile to the lease, then the 
Company uses that rate as a starting point to determine the 
incremental borrowing rate.
	
The Company is exposed to potential future increases in 
variable lease payments based on an index or rate, which 
are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. 
When adjustments to lease payments based on an index or 
rate take effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted 
against the right-of-use asset.
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. 
The finance cost is charged to the statement of profit and loss 
over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
	
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which the 
condition that triggers those payments occurs.
	
The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing 
the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, 
reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments 
made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect 
any reassessment or lease modifications. The Company 
recognises the amount of the re-measurement of lease 
liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Where the 
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the 
lease liability, the Company recognises any remaining amount 
of the re-measurement in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Payment made towards leases for which non-cancellable 
term is 12 months or lesser (short-term leases) and low 
value leases are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss as rental expenses over the tenor of such leases. 
Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of 
the lease liabilities are expensed to the statement of profit 
and loss in the period in which the events or conditions 
which trigger those payments occur.
2.21 Dividends
	
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, 
being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion 
of the entity, on or before the end of the reporting period 
but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
2a	Critical 
Estimates 
And 
Judgements
	
The preparation of financial statements requires the use 
of accounting estimates which, by definition, will seldom 
equal the actual results. Management also needs to exercise 
judgement in applying the Company’s accounting policies.
	
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items 
which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to 
estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than 
those originally assessed.
(i)	 Estimation of defined benefit obligation 
- Note 32.1
	
The estimate requires the Company to make assumptions 
regarding variable such as discount rate and salary growth 
rate. Change in these key assumptions can have significant 
impact on the defined benefit obligation.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(ii)	Impairment 
of 
investments 
in 
subsidiaries - Note 4
	
Determining whether the investments in subsidiaries 
are impaired requires an estimate of the value in use of 
investments. In considering the value in use, the management 
estimates the future cash flows, operating margins, growth 
rates, discount rates of the underlying business/ operations of 
the subsidiaries to determine the value using the discounted 
cash flow model.
(iii)	Impairment of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets - Note 
2.5, 3(a) and 3(d)
	
The Company estimates the value in use of the cash 
generating unit (CGU) based on future cash flows after 
considering current economic conditions and trends, 
estimated future operating results and growth rates and 
anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions. The 
estimated cash flows are developed using internal forecasts. 
The cash flows are discounted using a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate the present value which involve 
estimates and judgements.
(iv)	Useful lives of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets - Note 
2.3, 3(a) and 3(d)
	
The Company reviews the useful life of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets at the end of each reporting 
period. Uncertainties in these estimates relates to technical 
and economic obsolescence that may change the useful 
life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. 
This reassessment may result in change in depreciation and 
amortisation expense in future periods.
(v) Fair value measurements of financial 
instruments - Note 38
	
This includes financial assets and liabilities, measured using 
inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for assets 
and liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived 
from prices which involves estimates and judgements. This 
majorly includes derivative contracts.
(vi) 
Expected 
credit 
loss 
for 
trade 
receivables
	
Refer note 2.7, 10(a) and 39A(i) for details of critical 
estimates in expected credit loss for financial instruments 
carried at amortised cost.
(vii) Critical judgement in determining the 
lease term - Note 3(b)
	
The Company determines the lease term on the basis of 
termination and renewal options in various lease contracts 
where the Company applies its judgement.
	
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. They are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that may have a financial impact 
on the Company and that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances.
176
177
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 3(a) Property, Plant And Equipment
Particulars
 Gross Block 
 Depreciation 
 Net Block 
As at 
1 April 2024 
 Additions 
during 
the year 
 Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
1 April 2024  For the year 
 On disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
31 March 
2024
Tangible Assets
(a)	 Land
 60.95 
 - 
 - 
 60.95 
 2.61 
 - 
 - 
 2.61 
 58.34 
 58.34 
(b)	 Buildings 
 664.51 
 31.66 
 - 
 696.17 
 180.63 
 26.48 
 - 
 207.11 
 489.06 
 483.88 
(c)	 Plant and Equipment
 1,988.30 
 242.04 
 (1.77)
 2,228.57 
 1,234.93 
 166.07 
 (1.77)
 1,399.23 
 829.34 
 753.37 
(d)	Furniture and Fixtures
 50.89 
 4.09 
 (13.77)
 41.21 
 34.83 
 7.80 
 (12.51)
 30.12 
 11.09 
 16.06 
(e)	 Vehicles
 69.46 
 0.52 
 (2.65)
 67.33 
 27.01 
 10.50 
 (2.11)
 35.40 
 31.93 
 42.45 
(f)	 Office Equipment
 47.56 
 8.47 
 (7.94)
 48.09 
 22.17 
 3.23 
 (7.38)
 18.02 
 30.07 
 25.39 
(g)	 Electrical Installation 
 13.05 
 - 
 - 
 13.05 
 4.80 
 1.03 
 - 
 5.83 
 7.22 
 8.25 
 2,894.72 
 286.78 
 (26.13)
 3,155.37 
 1,506.98 
 215.11 
 (23.77)
 1,698.32  1,457.05  1,387.74 
Particulars
 Gross Block 
 Depreciation 
 Net Block 
 As at 1 
April, 2023 
 Additions 
during 
the year 
 Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
 As at 
31 March 
2024 
 As at 
 1 April, 2023  For the year 
 On disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
 As at 
 31 March 
2024 
 As at 
31 March 
2024 
 As at 
31 March 
2023 
Tangible Assets
(a)	 Land
 60.95 
 - 
 - 
 60.95 
 2.61 
 - 
 - 
 2.61 
 58.34 
 58.34 
(b)	 Buildings 
 643.34 
 21.37 
 (0.20)
 664.51 
 155.20 
 25.48 
 (0.05)
 180.63 
 483.88 
 488.14 
(c)	 Plant and Equipment
 1,754.94 
 272.50 
 (39.14)
 1,988.30 
 1,130.62 
 139.28 
 (34.97)
 1,234.93 
 753.37 
 624.32 
(d)	Furniture and Fixtures
 35.41 
 15.48 
 - 
 50.89 
 27.86 
 6.97 
 - 
 34.83 
 16.06 
 7.55 
(e)	 Vehicles
 62.80 
 12.99 
 (6.33)
 69.46 
 21.15 
 10.25 
 (4.39)
 27.01 
 42.45 
 41.65 
(f)	 Office Equipment
 40.84 
 6.83 
 (0.11)
 47.56 
 20.25 
 2.03 
 (0.11)
 22.17 
 25.39 
 20.59 
(g)	 Electrical Installation 
 13.05 
 - 
 - 
 13.05 
 3.76 
 1.04 
 - 
 4.80 
 8.25 
 9.29 
 2,611.33 
 329.17 
 (45.78)
 2,894.72 
 1,361.45 
 185.05 
 (39.52)
 1,506.98  1,387.74  1,249.88 
Note:
(i)	
Refer Note 19 and 22 for Property, plant and equipment pledged as security.
(ii)	
Contractual obligations
	
Refer Note 43B (ii) for disclosure of capital commitments for the acquisitions of Property, plant and equipment.
(iii)	 No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as 
amended in 2016) [formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)] and Rules made thereunder.
(iv)	 Title deeds of all the immovable properties are held in the name of the Company.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease Liabilities 
Current 
 12.54 
 6.17 
Non-Current 
 22.43 
 3.22 
Total
 34.97 
 9.39 
Particulars
Right-of-
Use Land
Right-
of-Use 
Buildings
Right-of-Use 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Right-of-
Use Office 
Equipment
Total Right-
of-UseAssets 
Balance as at 1 April 2024 (At cost)
 87.44 
 234.66 
 - 
 15.03 
 337.13 
Additions during the year
 0.83 
 - 
 - 
 38.18 
 39.01 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 - 
 (11.32)
 - 
 - 
 (11.32)
Balance as at 31 March 2025 (At cost)
 88.27 
 223.34 
 - 
 53.21 
 364.82 
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 April 2024
 8.24 
 20.06 
 - 
 14.70 
 43.00 
Charge for the year #
 1.57 
 4.69 
 - 
 7.32 
 13.58 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 0.03 
 (7.51)
 (7.48)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March 2025
 9.84 
 17.24 
 - 
 22.02 
 49.10 
Carrying amount as at 31 March 2025
 78.43 
 206.10 
 - 
 31.19 
 315.72 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Right-of-Use Assets
Land [Refer (i) below]
 78.43 
 79.20 
Building
 206.10 
 214.60 
Office Equipment
 31.19 
 0.33 
Total
 315.72 
 294.13 
Note 3(b): Right-of-Use Assets
(a)	The Company as a lessee
	
The Company’s significant leasing arrangements include assets dedicated for use under long-term arrangements, lease of land, office 
space, equipment, vehicles and some IT equipment. Lease of Land have lease term of 60 years, leases of plant and equipment and 
office equipment have lease terms between 2 to 5 years, while offices and guest houses generally have lease terms between 12 
months to 60 years. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. 
The Company also has certain leases of offices and guest houses with lease terms of 12 months or less. The Company applies the 
'short-term lease' recognition exemptions for these leases. For leases recognised under long term arrangements involving use of a 
dedicated asset, non-lease components are excluded based on the underlying contractual terms and conditions.
(b)	Amounts recognised in balance sheet
	
The balance sheet shows the following amounts relating to leases:
	
Note (i): Refer Note 19 and 22 for Right-of-Use land pledged as security.
(c)	Following are the changes in carrying value of right-of-use assets:
178
179
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening balance
 9.39 
 16.30 
Additions during the year
 38.62 
 - 
Finance costs during the year
 1.20 
 1.11 
Lease terminated during the year
 (4.26)
 - 
Rent waiver on lease liabilities 
 - 
 - 
Lease payments during the year
 (9.98)
 (8.02)
Closing balance
 34.97 
 9.39 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets (Refer Note 34)
 13.58 
 12.12 
Interest expense (Refer Note 33)
 1.20 
 1.11 
Expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets (Refer Note 35)
 15.24 
 20.01 
Total
 30.02 
 33.24 
Particulars
Right-of-
Use Land
Right-
of-Use 
Buildings
Right-of-Use 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Right-of-
Use Office 
Equipment
Total Right-
of-UseAssets 
Balance as at 1 April 2023 (At cost)
 87.44 
 234.66 
 0.54 
 15.03 
 337.67 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 - 
 - 
 (0.54)
 - 
 (0.54)
Balance as at 31 March 2024 (At cost)
 87.44 
 234.66 
 - 
 15.03 
 337.13 
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 April 2023
 6.65 
 11.53 
 0.54 
 12.70 
 31.42 
Charge for the year #
 1.59 
 8.53 
 - 
 2.00 
 12.12 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 - 
 - 
 (0.54)
 - 
 (0.54)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March 2024
 8.24 
 20.06 
 - 
 14.70 
 43.00 
Carrying amount as at 31 March 2024
 79.20 
 214.60 
 - 
 0.33 
 294.13 
Note 3(b): Right-of-Use Assets (Contd..)
	
# Included under depreciation and amortisation expenses (Refer Note 34)
(d)	Following are the changes in carrying value of lease liabilities:-
(e)	Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss
	
The statement of profit or loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:
(f)	 The Company had a total cash outflow of H 9.98 Mn for leases for the year ended 31 March 2025 (31 March 2024: H 8.02 Mn).
(g)	Extension and termination options
	
Extension and termination options are included in the Company's lease contracts. These are used to maximise operational flexibility 
in terms of managing the assets used in the Company’s operations. In majority of the lease contracts, the extension and termination 
options held are exercisable by mutual consent of both the lessor and the lessee and in few contracts, the option to terminate the 
lease is with lessee only. For determining the lease term of land, plant & machinery, office space and office equipment, the following 
factors are normally the most relevant:
 
 
If there are significant penalty payments to terminate (or not extend), the Company is typically reasonably certain to extend 
(or not terminate).
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 67.97 
 83.33 
Addition during the year
 154.43 
 164.03 
Capitalisation/ adjustment during the year
 (185.35)
 (179.39)
Closing balance
 37.05 
 67.97 
Particulars
Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 34.25 
 0.83 
 0.96 
 1.01 
 37.05 
Total
 34.25 
 0.83 
 0.96 
 1.01 
 37.05 
Particulars
Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 41.11 
 25.63 
 0.32 
 0.91 
 67.97 
Total
 41.11 
 25.63 
 0.32 
 0.91 
 67.97 
Note 3(b): Right-of-Use Assets (Contd..)
 
 
If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Company is typically reasonably certain 
to extend (or not terminate).
 
 
Otherwise, the Company considers other factors including historical lease durations, the costs and business disruption required 
to replace the leased asset.
	
The Company has entered into a long-term lease for an office space which contains further renewal options and only the Company 
can terminate the lease giving 6 months notice. Considering the above factors, the termination option with the Company and the 
expected period of use, the lease term has been determined as 60 years which is shorter than the contractual duration.
(h)	Residual value guarantees
	
There are no residual value guarantees in relation to any lease contracts.
(i)	 The Company has entered into 36 months leave and license agreements for five office spaces at various locations. These agreements 
are pending for registration under the Registration Act, 1908.
Note 3(c): Capital work in progress
Notes:
(a)	Capital work in progress ageing schedule:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
	
(ii)	As at 31 March 2024
180
181
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Renovation & Relayouting Stores
 9.23 
 - 
 - 
 9.23 
Network Infrastructure
 8.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.94 
PU Flooring 
 5.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.96 
Others*
 8.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.14 
Total
 32.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.27 
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Automotive Module Industry 4.0
 24.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.01 
Hydraulic Press
 6.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.50 
Factory Shed
 4.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.18 
Others*
 25.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25.42 
Total
 60.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.10 
Note 3(c): Capital work in progress (Contd..)
(b)	Capital work in progress for which completion is overdue or has exceeded its 
costs compared to its original plan:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
	
	
*Others comprise of various projects with individually immaterial values
	
(ii)	As at 31 March 2024
	
	
*Others comprise of various projects with individually immaterial values
Note 3(d): Intangible assets
Particulars
 Gross Block 
Amortization
 Net Block 
As at 
1 April 
2024 
 Additions 
during 
the year 
Disposals 
during 
the year 
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
1 April 
2024 
 For 
the 
year 
 On disposals 
during the 
year 
As at 
31 March 
2025 
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
31 March 
2024
Intangible Assets
Computer Software
 62.93 
 36.37 
 (3.98)
 95.32 
 30.86  12.35 
 (3.98)
 39.23 
 56.09 
 32.07 
Total
 62.93 
 36.37 
 (3.98)
 95.32  30.86  12.35 
 (3.98)
 39.23 
 56.09 
 32.07 
Particulars
 Gross Block 
Amortization
 Net Block 
 As at 
1 April, 
2023 
Additions 
during 
the year 
Disposals 
during 
the year 
 As at 
31 March 
2024 
 As at 
1 April, 
2023 
For 
the 
year 
On disposals 
during the 
year 
 As at 
31 March 
2024 
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2023 
Intangible Assets
Computer Software
 29.70 
 33.23 
 - 
 62.93 
 27.80 
 3.06 
 - 
 30.86 
 32.07 
 1.90 
Total
 29.70 
 33.23 
 - 
 62.93  27.80 
 3.06 
 - 
 30.86 
 32.07 
 1.90 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note 3(e): Intangible assets under development
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 1.86 
 - 
Addition during the year
 - 
 2.32 
Capitalisation during the year
 (1.86)
 (0.46)
Closing balance
 - 
 1.86 
Notes:
(a)	Intangible Assets Under Development Ageing Schedule:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Amount of Intangible assets under development for a period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Software upgradation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Particulars
Amount of Intangible assets under development for a period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
Total
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Software upgradation
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
Total
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
	
(ii)	As at 31 March 2024
	
(ii)	As at 31 March 2024
(b)	Intangible Assets Under Development For Which Completion Is Overdue 
Or Has Exceeded Its Costs Compared To Its Original Plan:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
182
183
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
A.	 Investments in Equity Instruments at Cost
	
Unquoted
	
(i)	 Investment in subsidiaries
	
	
Tega Industries, Inc.
 9.52 
 9.52 
	
	
2,000 (31 March 2024: 2,000) fully paid common shares of USD 100 each
	
	
Tega Industries Australia Pty. Ltd.
 2.31 
 2.31 
	
	
85,000 (31 March 2024: 85,000) fully paid ordinary shares of AUD 1 each
	
	
Tega Industries Canada Inc
 1.96 
 1.96 
	
	
50,000 (31 March 2024: 50,000) fully paid common shares of CAD 1 each
	
	
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Technicos Ltda (Net of impairment: H 10.17 Mn)
 - 
 - 
	
	
450,497 (31 March 2024: 450,497) fully paid common shares of BRL 1 each
	
	
Tega Holdings Pte Limited
 4,504.18 
 4,504.18 
	
	
100,280 (31 March 2024: 100,280) fully paid ordinary shares of SGD 1 each
	
	
(Refer Note below)
	
	
Tega McNally Minerals Limited (formerly known as McNally Sayaji Engineering 
Limited) (Refer Note 47)
 656.12 
 656.13 
	
	
65,669,077 (31 March 2024: 65,669,077) fully paid equity shares of H 10 each
	
(ii)	Investment in Joint Venture
	
	
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
	
	
112,500 (31 March 2024: 112,500) fully paid equity shares of H 10 each
 150.08 
 150.07 
Total
 5,324.17 
 5,324.17 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 5,324.17 
 5,324.17 
Aggregate amount of Impairment in the value of investments
 10.17 
 10.17 
Note: 4 Investment In Subsidiaries And Joint Venture
Note:
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024, the Company carried out an impairment assessment in view of the subsidiary's net-worth 
being less than the carrying amount of the investment.
	
The recoverable value of investments held in Tega Holdings Pte Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company is, inter alia, 
dependent on the operational and financial performance of Tega Industries Africa Proprietary Limited, Tega Industries Chile SpA and 
Losugen Pty Ltd. The recoverable amount is computed using discounted cash flow model with cash flow projections for the next 
financial year based on management estimates and forecasts for next four years. Cash Flows beyond these periods are extrapolated 
using estimated growth rates.
	
The projections are based on both past performance and the expectations of future performance and assumptions therein. The 
Company estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that reflect the current market rates adjusted to company specific risk 
relating to the relevant segments and countries in which they operate. The weighted average post-tax discount rates used for 
discounting the cash flows projections is in the range of 13.30%-20.40% (31 March 2024: 11.00%-17.90%). Beyond the specifically 
forecasted period, a growth rate of 2.00%-2.50% (31 March 2024: 2.00%-3.00%.) is used to extrapolate the cash flow projections. 
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
	
The Company has also conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests including sensitivity in respect of key assumptions being 
growth rate, discount rates etc. The management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used in 
the assessment would cause the carrying value of investments to exceed its recoverable value.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good (Unless otherwise stated)
Carried at amortised cost
Security deposits
 9.92 
 7.68 
Carried at FVTPL
Derivative assets 
Foreign currency options
 8.82 
 22.74 
Interest rate swaps
 0.89 
 6.59 
Total
 19.63 
 37.01 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Prepaid expenses
 6.54 
 5.51 
Capital advances
 4.83 
 4.33 
Total
 11.37 
 9.84 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Raw materials  [Includes Goods in transit H 99.44 Mn  (31 March 2024: H 44.72 Mn)]
 1,377.74 
 1,133.25 
Work-in-progress
 145.45 
 143.16 
Finished goods
 421.65 
 642.46 
Stores and spares [Includes Goods in transit H 15.81 Mn (31 March 2024: H 22.28 Mn)]
 161.00 
 157.39 
Total
 2,105.84 
 2,076.26 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance Tax [Net of provision for income tax of H 1201.76 Mn (31 March 2024: H 812.72 Mn)
 50.99 
 78.47 
Total
 50.99 
 78.47 
Note: 5 Other Financial Assets - Non Current
Note: 6 Income Tax Assets (Net) - Non Current
Note: 7 Other Non-Current Assets
Note: 8 Inventories (At Lower Of Cost And Net Realisable Value)
Notes: -
(i)	
The Company has expensed inventory of H 25.71 Mn (31 March 2024: H 11.40 Mn) for writing down the value of inventories towards 
slow moving, non-moving and obsolete inventories.
(ii)	
Inventories amounting to H 2,105.84 Mn (31 March 2024 : H 2,076.26 Mn) have been pledged to secure borrowings of the Company 
(Refer Note 19 and Note 22).
184
185
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
I.	 Measured at FVTPL
	
Investments in Mutual Funds 
	
Unquoted
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 99.55 
 138.52 
	
885,277 units (31 March 2024: 1,341,644 units)
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Nifty SDL Apr 2027 Index Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 	
 61.23 
 56.55 
	
5,038,568 units (31 March 2024: 5,038,568 units) 
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 56.74 
 52.28 
	
152,462 units (31 March 2024: 152,462 units)
	
Axis Short Term Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 201.15 
 228.17 
	
6,113,415 units (31 March 2024: 7,548,504 units)
	
Axis Crisil IBX SDL May 2027 Index Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 38.67 
 35.64 
	
3,215,316 units (31 March 2024: 3,215,316 units)
	
Axis Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 32.47 
	
Nil (31 March 2024: 13,233 units)
	
Axis Strategic Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 72.76 
 66.51 
	
2,423,475 units (31 March 2024: 2,423,475 units)
	
Axis Money Market  - Direct Plan - Growth
 40.58 
 - 
	
28,256 units (31 March 2024:NIL)
	
Bandhan Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 32.75 
 30.40 
	
845,823 units (31 March 2024: 845,823 units)
	
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 105.51 
 97.16 
	
5,451,773 units (31 March 2024: 5,451,773 units)
	
Bandhan Bond Fund - Short Term - Direct Plan - Growth 
 41.73 
 38.35 
	
698,262 units (31 March 2024: 698,262 units)
	
DSP Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 19.53 
 18.11 
	
973,263 units (31 March 2024: 973,263 units)
	
DSP Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth	
 41.91 
 38.58 
	
1,715,129 units (31 March 2024: 1,715,129 units)
	
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 103.99 
 95.50 
	
3,195,709 units (31 March 2024: 3,195,709 units)
	
ICICI Prudential Short Term Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 72.64 
 66.83 
	
1,133,953 units (31 March 2024: 1,133,953 units)
	
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 7.69 
 48.57 
	
251,828 units (31 March 2024: 1,725,839 units)
	
ICICI Prudential Long Term Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 20.75 
 75.44 
	
213,889 units (31 March 2024: 858,747 units)
	
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 150.13 
 151.98 
	
39,016 units (31 March 2024: 42,991 units)
	
Kotak Dynamic Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 35.31 
	
Nil (31 March 2024: 961,479 units)
	
Kotak Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 71.64 
 66.00 
	
1,075,722 units (31 March 2024: 1,075,722 units)
	
Kotak Bond Short Term Plan - Direct Plan - Growth
 71.53 
 65.76 
	
1,276,236 units (31 March 2024: 1,276,236 units)
	
Kotak Nifty SDL April 2027 Top 12 Equal Weight Index Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 54.93 
 78.76 
	
4,561,698 units (31 March 2024: 7,092,638 units)
Note: 9 Investments - Current
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
	
Mirae Asset Dynamic Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 21.31 
	
NIL  (31 March 2024: 1,336,396 units)
	
Mirae Asset Nifty SDL Jun 2027 Index Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 102.74 
 94.66 
	
8,526,590 units (31 March 2024: 8,526,590 units)
	
Mirae Asset Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 25.07 
 0.01 
	
21,383 units (31 March 2024: 12 units)
	
Nippon India Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 172.87 
 224.39 
	
8,211,606 units (31 March 2024: 11,556,011 units)
	
Nippon India Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 33.56 
 34.08 
	
5,288 units (31 March 2024: 5,768 units)
	
SBI Arbitrage Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 31.37 
 15.17 
	
888,325 units (31 March 2024: 463,286 units)
	
SBI Banking and PSU Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 161.81 
 149.23 
	
49,992 units (31 March 2024: 49,992 units)
	
SBI Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 20.06 
 37.68 
	
1,285,371 units (31 March 2024: 2,626,294 units)
	
SBI Magnum Constant Maturity Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 23.85 
 55.01 
	
367,606 units (31 March 2024: 930,692 units)
	
SBI Dynamic Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 52.57 
 14.14 
	
1,370,540 units (31 March 2024: 402,240 units)
	
Tata Fixed Maturity Plan Series 61 Scheme A (91 days) - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 50.21 
	
Nil units (31 March 2024: 4,999,750 units)
	
Tata Corporate Bond Fund Direct Plan-Growth
 0.49 
 - 
	
39,248 Units (31 March 2024: Nil)
	
UTI Liquid Direct Plan-Growth
 58.69 
 - 
	
13,806 Units (31 March 2024: Nil)
	
UTI Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 37.65 
	
Nil  (31 March 2024: 1,867,741 units)
	
UTI Crisil SDL Maturity June 2027 Index Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 34.25 
 62.48 
	
2,900,078 units (31 March 2024: 5,739,008 units)
 2,082.74 
 2,312.91 
Total 
 2,082.74 
 2,312.91 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,082.74 
 2,312.91 
Note: 9 Investments - Current (Contd..)
Note: 10(a) Trade Receivables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Unsecured, considered good
 3,428.59 
 2,390.79 
(b)	 Credit impaired
 79.37 
 95.49 
 3,507.96 
 2,486.28 
Less: Allowances for expected credit losses
 (156.86)
 (147.68)
Net trade receivables
 3,351.10 
 2,338.60 
186
187
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
 147.68 
 117.07 
Provision created during the year (a)
 9.18 
 30.61 
Adjustments
 - 
 - 
Closing at the end of the year
 156.86 
 147.68 
Bad debts and advances written off (b)
 14.74 
 9.65 
Total charges to standalone statement of profit and loss (a+b)
 23.92 
 40.26 
Note: 10(a) Trade Receivables (Contd..)
Notes:
(a)	Allowance For Expected Credit Loss
	
In determination of the allowance for credit losses on receivables, the Company has used the practical expedient by computing the 
expected credit losses based on provision matrix, which has taken into account historical credit loss experience and adjusted for 
forward looking information. Company also analyses all its receivables periodically for recoverability assessment and wherever they 
have analysed that the receivable may be credit impaired on account of non recoverability, loss allowance on such receivables have 
been provided in full.
	
Details of allowances for expected credit loss are provided hereunder :-
(b)	Trade Receivable Ageing Schedule:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
 Outstanding from following periods from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
 - 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
(a)	 Undisputed - considered good
 871.70 
 1,075.95 
 941.18 
 491.53 
 47.85 
 0.38 
 3,428.59 
(b)	 Undisputed - credit impaired
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 7.07 
 5.90 
 66.39 
 79.37 
(c)	 Disputed - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d)	Disputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 871.70 
 1,075.96 
 941.18 
 498.60 
 53.75 
 66.77  3,507.96 
Less : Allowance for credit 
impaired
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 7.07 
 5.90 
 66.39 
 79.37 
Net trade receivables before 
credit losses
 871.70 
 1,075.95 
 941.18 
 491.53 
 47.85 
 0.38  3,428.59 
Expected loss rate
2.25%
2.33%
2.22%
2.22%
2.26%
1.83%
Less : Allowance for expected 
credit losses
 19.61 
 25.03 
 20.86 
 10.90 
 1.08 
 0.01 
 77.49 
Net trade receivables 
 852.09 
 1,050.92 
 920.32 
 480.63 
 46.77 
 0.37  3,351.10 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Outstanding from following periods from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
 - 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
(a)	 Undisputed - considered good
 1,241.30 
 864.96 
 177.60 
 83.90 
 20.73 
 2.30 
 2,390.79 
(b)	 Undisputed - credit impaired
 - 
 2.16 
 0.66 
 11.81 
 12.47 
 68.39 
 95.49 
(c)	 Disputed - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d)	Disputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,241.30 
 867.12 
 178.26 
 95.71 
 33.20 
 70.69 2,486.28 
Less : Allowance for credit 
impaired
 - 
 2.16 
 0.66 
 11.81 
 12.47 
 68.39 
 95.49 
Net trade receivables before 
credit losses
 1,241.30 
 864.96 
 177.60 
 83.90 
 20.73 
 2.30 2,390.79 
Expected loss rate
2.17%
2.23%
2.25%
2.10%
1.16%
1.71%
Less : Allowance for expected 
credit losses
 26.88 
 19.27 
 4.00 
 1.76 
 0.24 
 0.04 
 52.19 
Net trade receivables 
 1,214.42 
 845.69 
 173.60 
 82.14 
 20.49 
 2.26 2,338.60 
Note: 10(a) Trade Receivables (Contd..)
	
(ii)	As at 31 March 2024
(c)	 There are no outstanding receivables due from directors or other officers of the Company.
(d)	 Trade receivables amounting to H 3351.12 Mn (31 March 2024: H 2,338.60 Mn) have been pledged to secure borrowings of the 
Company (Refer Note 19 and Note 22).
(e)	 Refer Note 37 for receivables from related parties.
(f)	
There are no customers other than two subsidiaries contributing more than 10% of the total outstanding receivables as at 31 March 
2024 (31 March 2024: No customer and two subsidiary ).
Note: 10(b) Contract Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contract assets
 4.36 
 9.94 
Total
 4.36 
 9.94 
Notes:
(a)	
Contract assets amounting to H 4.36 Mn (31 March 2024: H 9.94 Mn) have been pledged to secure borrowings of the Company 
(Refer Note 19 and Note 22).
(b)	 Refer Note 37 for contract assets from related parties.
(c)	
Significant changes in contract assets:
	
Contract assets have decreased as the Company has provided fewer services ahead of the agreed payment schedules for fixed-
price contracts.
188
189
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Loan to subsidiary
 200.87 
 196.00 
Less: Current maturities of Loans - Non current [Refer Note 13(b)]
 (200.87)
 - 
Total
 - 
 196.00 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Loan to employees
 0.57 
 0.12 
Loan to subsidiary
 200.87 
 - 
Total
 201.44 
 0.12 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Other bank balances
	
In deposit account 
 0.05 
 2.56 
Earmarked Balances
	
In unclaimed dividend accounts
 0.41 
 0.21 
Total
 0.46 
 2.77 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand
 0.77 
 0.78 
Balances with banks
	
In current accounts
 40.71 
 36.93 
	
Deposits of original maturity of less than three months
 11.00 
 - 
Total
 52.48 
 37.71 
Note: 11 Cash And Cash Equivalents
Note: 12 Other Bank Balances
Note: 13(A) Loans - Non Current
Note: 13(b) Loans - Current
Notes:
(i)	
Disclosure Pursuant to Section 186(4) of the Companies Act 2013:
	
Purpose of loan: In the ordinary course of the business and in keeping the applicable regulatory requirements for onward funding to 
certain overseas subsidiaries of the company towards meeting their business requirements and/ or capital expenditure.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 13(b) Loans - Current (Contd..)
	
Below are the other details
	
(a)	As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Carried at amortised cost
Security deposits
 6.62 
 5.71 
Interest receivable
 0.46 
 1.07 
Accruals under duty drawback
 8.82 
 3.76 
Carried at FVTPL
Derivative asset 
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 12.58 
 8.68 
	
Foreign currency options
 16.15 
 29.57 
	
Interest rate swaps
 2.86 
 6.61 
Total
 47.49 
 55.40 
Particulars
Debts outstanding 
 as at 
 31 March 2024 
Maximum balance 
outstanding 
during the year 
Loans to Subsidiaries
(1)	 Tega Holdings Pte Limited
 196.00 
 196.00 
(interest rate 3 months SOFR+240 points; tenure 36 months)
Particulars
Debts outstanding 
as at 
 31 March 2025 
Maximum balance 
outstanding 
during the year 
Loan to Subsidiary
(1)	 Tega Holdings Pte Limited
 200.87 
 200.87 
	
(interest rate 3 months SOFR+240 points; tenure 36 months)
	
(b)	As at 31 March 2024
(ii)	
There are no outstanding loans due from directors or other officers of the Company.
(iii)	 There are no loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to promoters, directors, KMPs, and the related parties (as defined 
under Companies Act, 2013) or other parties (including employees) either severely or jointly with any other person that are 
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment during the current or previous year. Loans granted to 
employees are unsecured in nature and are interest free. In respect of these loans, the schedule of repayment of principal amount 
has been stipulated and the employees are repaying the principal amount as stipulated in a regular manner. The terms and conditions 
under which these loans were granted are not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
Note: 14 Other Financial Assets - Current
190
191
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Accruals under other export incentives
 41.43 
 26.79 
Balance with government authorities
 172.82 
 125.72 
Advance to suppliers
 183.89 
 112.26 
Prepaid expenses
 29.38 
 10.72 
Employee advances
 13.15 
 5.21 
Total
 440.67 
 280.70 
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 7,00,00,000 
 700.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
 7,00,00,000 
 700.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 7,00,00,000 
 700.00 
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 6,63,54,112 
 663.54 
Changes during the year
Exercise of options - proceeds received (Refer Note 46)
 1,81,380 
 1.81 
As at 31 March 2024
 6,65,35,492 
 665.35 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 6,65,35,492 
 665.35 
Note: 15 Other Current Assets
Note: 16 Equity Share Capital
(a)	Authorised share capital
(b)	Issued, Subscribed And Fully Paid-Up Shares
(c)	Equity Shares Held By Holding Company
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
No.
% holding
No.
% holding
Equity shares:
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Name of the Promoters
As at 31 March 2025
Number of 
Shares 
% of Total 
Shares 
% change during 
the period 
Equity shares:
Promoters
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka
 53,48,502 
8.04%
0.00%
Mr. Mehul Mohanka
 13,315 
0.02%
0.02%
Mr. Manish Mohanka
 72,78,925 
10.94%
0.00%
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the Holding Company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
0.00%
Name of the Promoters
As at 31 March 2024
Number of 
Shares 
% of Total 
Shares 
% change during 
the period 
Equity shares:
Promoters
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka
 53,48,502 
8.04%
(0.02%)
Mr. Mehul Mohanka
 3,315 
(0.00%^)
(3.02%)
Mr. Manish Mohanka
 72,78,925 
10.94%
(0.03%)
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the Holding Company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
0.71%
Promoter Group
Marudhar Food and Credit Limited
 - 
0.00%
(1.96%)
Name of the shareholder
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
No.
% holding
No.
% holding
Equity shares:
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the Holding Company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka
 53,48,502 
8.04%
 53,48,502 
8.04%
Mr. Manish Mohanka
 72,78,925 
10.94%
 72,78,925 
10.94%
Note: 16 Equity Share Capital (Contd..)
(d)	Details Of The Shareholders Holding More Than 5% Of Equity Shares Of 
The Company
(e)	Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares
	
The company has one class of equity shares having par value of H10/-. Each equity shareholder is entitled to vote in the same 
proportion as the equity capital paid (whether fully paid or partly paid) held by the shareholder bears to the total paid up equity 
capital of the company. Each equity shareholder is entitled to dividend in proportion of the amount paid up as and when the company 
declares and pays dividend after obtaining shareholders' approval. Dividends are paid in Indian Rupees. In the event of liquidation, 
the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in 
proportion to their shareholding.
(f)	Shares Reserved For Issue Under Options
	
Pursuant to approved employee stock option scheme 2011, the Company has granted Nill nos of employees stock options of which 
Nil (31 March 2024: 498,628) of the options have been exercised (also Refer Note 46).
(g)	Shares Held By The Promoters And Promoter Group
	
^Below the rounding off norm adopted by the Company
192
193
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Refer following 
items
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Reserve and surplus
Securities premium 
(i)
 907.76 
 907.76 
General reserve
(ii)
 337.98 
 337.98 
Retained earnings
(iii)
 11,169.16 
 9,538.08 
Share options outstanding account
(iv)
 - 
 0.23 
Other reserves
Cash flow hedge reserve
(v)
 - 
 5.76 
 12,414.90 
 10,789.81 
Note: 16 Equity Share Capital (Contd..)
	
Note:
	
The change in shareholding is on account of purchase of equity shares from the open market.
(h)	 No equity shares were alloted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares or pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received in 
cash during the last five years. Further, none of the shares were bought back by the Company during the last five years.
Note: 17 Preference Share Capital
(a)	Authorised Share Capital
	
Compulsorily Convertible Participatory Preference shares
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 1,00,00,000 
 100.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
 1,00,00,000 
 100.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 1,00,00,000 
 100.00 
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
2,50,00,000
250.00
Changes during the year
As at 31 March 2024
2,50,00,000
 250.00
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
2,50,00,000
250.00
(b)	 Preference shares are yet to be issued and are included above for disclosure purpose only. Classification of the preference shares as 
equity or liability will be determined at the time they are issued.
(c)	 No preference shares were allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares or pursuant to contract(s) without payment being 
received in cash during the last five years. Further, none of the shares were bought back by the Company during the last five years.
Note: 18 Other Equity
	
Redeemable Preference shares
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Reserve and surplus
(i)	 Securities premium 
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 907.76 
 903.79 
	
Exercise of options -  proceeds received
 - 
 3.78 
	
Transfer within equity - exercise of options
 - 
 0.19 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 907.76 
 907.76 
(ii)	General reserve
	
Balance at the beginning and end of the year
 337.98 
 337.98 
(iii) Retained earnings
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 9,538.08 
 8,404.38 
	
Profit for the year
 1,759.39 
 1,265.01 
	
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
	
-	
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation, net of tax
 (1.23)
 1.59 
	
-	
Transfer within equity 
 5.99 
 - 
	
Appropriations:
	
-	
Dividend Paid
 (133.07)
 (132.90)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 11,169.16 
 9,538.08 
(iv)	Share options outstanding account
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 0.23 
 0.42 
	
Transfer within equity - termination of options
 (0.23)
 (0.19)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 - 
 0.23 
Other reserves
(v)	Cash flow hedge reserve
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 5.76 
 - 
	
Fair value changes of cash flow hedges, net of tax
 - 
 5.76 
	
Less: Transfer within equity
 (5.76)
 - 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 - 
 5.76 
Total
 12,414.90 
 10,789.81 
Note: 18 Other Equity (Contd..)
Nature And Purpose Of Reserves
(i)	 Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record premium received on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Companies Act”).
(ii)	General reserve
	
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, a general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net profit at a specified 
percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. Consequent to the introduction of the Companies Act 2013, the requirement 
to mandatory transfer a specified percentage of net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn.
(iii)	Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfer to general reserve, dividends or other 
distributions paid to shareholders.
(iv)	Share options outstanding account
	
The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under the 
Company's Employee stock option plan (Refer Note 46).
194
195
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Secured
	
Foreign currency term loan* [Refer (a) and (b) below]
 179.50 
 387.83 
	
Less: Current maturities of long term borrowings [Refer Note 22]
 (115.39)
 (212.68)
 64.11 
 175.15 
Secured
	
Vehicle loans from financial institution [Refer (c) below]
 4.94 
 7.75 
	
Less: Current maturity of long term borrowings  [Refer Note 22]
 (3.05)
 (2.81)
 1.89 
 4.94 
Total
 66.00 
 180.09 
Note: 18 Other Equity (Contd..) 
(v)	Cash flow hedge reserve
	
The cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of hedging instruments designated as cash flow 
hedges are recognised in cash flow hedge reserve. Such changes recognised are reclassified to the standalone statement of profit and 
loss when the hedged item affects the profit or loss or are included as an adjustment to the cost of the related non-financial hedged 
item in accordance with the Company's accounting policy.
Note: 19 Borrowings - Non Current
(a)	Details Of Secured Term Loan Facilities From Bank Are As Follows: -
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 
2025
As at 
March 31, 
2024
Currency 
 Maturity 
Date 
 Interest 
Rate 
Repayable in 28 unequal quarterly instalments starting from 
28 June 2018 in the following manner:(a) first 4 instalments 
of 0.50% each (b) next 4 instalments of 1.00% each (c) 
next 6 instalments of 2.00% each (d) next 4 instalments of 
4.00% each (e) next 6 instalments of 6.00% each (f) next 4 
instalments of 7.50% each.
 - 
 62.55 
 USD 
28-Mar-25
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
Repayable in 20 unequal quarterly instalments starting 
from 22 October 2019 in the following manner:(a) first 4 
instalments of 2.50% each (b) next 6 instalments of 4.00% 
each (c) next 2 instalments of 6.00% each (d) next 4 
instalments of 8.00% each (e) next 2 instalments of 5.00% 
each (f) next 2 instalments of 6.00% each.
 - 
 50.04 
 USD 
22-Jul-24
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
Repayable in 28 unequal quarterly instalments starting 
from 22 October 2019 in the following manner:(a) first 4 
instalments of 0.50% each (b) next 4 instalments of 1.00% 
each (c) next 6 instalments of 2.00% each (d) next 4 
instalments of 4.00% each (e) next 6 instalments of 6.00% 
each (f) next 4 instalments of 7.50% each.
 179.50 
 275.24 
 USD 
22-Jul-26
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
	
* based on closing rates
(b)	 The term loans of H 179.50 Mn (31 March 2024: H 387.83 Mn) are secured by first charge on pari passu basis with the existing lender 
wherever applicable on property, plant and equipment (both moveable and immovable) and right-of-use land of the Company and 
second charge on the current assets to be shared on pari passu basis with the other working capital lenders.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Secured 
(a)	 Rupee loan from banks [Refer below]
 842.58 
 850.94 
(b)	 Current maturities of long-term borrowings
	
Term loan from banks
 115.39 
 212.68 
	
Vehicle loan from financial institution
 3.05 
 2.81 
Total
 961.02 
 1,066.43 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 30.71 
 27.46 
	
Investments
 64.92 
 37.39 
	
Right-of-Use Assets
 8.38 
 1.74 
	
Others
 0.95 
 5.26 
Total (A)
 104.96 
 71.85 
Deferred tax assets
	
Allowance for expected credit losses
 39.48 
 37.05 
	
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 34.62 
 31.70 
	
Lease liabilities
 8.69 
 2.36 
Total (B)
 82.79 
 71.11 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (A-B)
 22.17 
 0.74 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Derivative liabilities
Foreign currency options
 3.88 
 9.49 
Total
 3.88 
 9.49 
Note: 19 Borrowings - Non Current (Contd..)
(c)	 Vehicle loans of I 4.94 Mn (31 March 2024: I 7.75 Mn) is secured by hypothecation of vehicle purchased and are repayable in forty 
eight (31 March 2024: forty eight) monthly equated instalments commencing from the subsequent month in which the loan is taken 
carrying fixed interest of 7.97% per annum (31 March 2024: 7.97% per annum).
Note: 20 Other Financial Liabilities - Non Current
Note: 21 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
The balances comprises temporary differences attributable to:
Refer Note 36 for tax expense
Note: 22 Borrowings - Current
Nature of security:
All the above facilities mentioned in (a) are secured by first charge over entire current assets (both present and future) of the Company on 
pari-passu basis with other banks and second charge on property, plant and equipment (both moveable and immovable) and right-of-use 
land of the Company on pari-passu basis with other banks. The loan is repayable over the period of 3-9 months.
196
197
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i)	 The Principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of the year.
	
Principal Amount :
 57.11 
 63.01 
	
Interest :
 0.15 
 0.63 
(ii)	 The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during the year.
 - 
 - 
(iii)	the amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006;
 5.00 
 6.12 
(iv)	The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of accounting year; and
 20.98 
 39.05 
(v)	 The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance of a deductible 
expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006;
 2.67 
 5.44 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer below)
 78.10 
 102.06 
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
	
(i)	 Acceptances
 32.42 
 50.65 
	
(ii)	 Others 
 563.69 
 669.33 
 Total 
 674.21 
 822.04 
Note: 23 Trade Payables
Notes: 
(a)	 Amount due to micro enterprises and small enterprises as defined in the "The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development 
Act, 2006 (MSMED Act)"  has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information available 
with the company. The disclosure relating to micro enterprises and small enterprises is as below:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled
Not 
Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
(a)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 40.55 
 22.29 
 6.77 
 2.19 
 6.31 
 78.11 
(b)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 169.29 
 131.21 
 281.83 
 8.47 
 1.39 
 3.92 
 596.11 
(c)	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Disputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
169.29 
171.76 
 304.12  15.24 
 3.58 
 10.23 
 674.22 
(b)	Trade Payable Ageing Schedule:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	Provision for employee benefits (Refer Note 32.1)
	
Provision for gratuity
 24.07 
 11.41 
	
Provision for compensated absences
 60.45 
 54.42 
(b	 Others
	
Provision for warranty [Refer Note (A) below]
 29.08 
 23.86 
Total
 113.60 
 89.69 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 2.83 
 6.52 
Derivative liabilities
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 36.59 
 3.73 
	
Foreign currency options
 - 
 2.18 
Unclaimed dividend
 0.41 
 0.21 
Other payables
	
Capital creditors
 0.10 
 38.70 
	
Security deposit 
 1.48 
 1.43 
	
Employee related liabilities
 104.63 
 117.87 
Total
 146.04 
 170.64 
Note: 23 Trade Payables (Contd..)
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled
Not 
Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
(a)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 28.56 
 46.17 
 6.37 
 4.94 
 16.02 
 102.06 
(b)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 190.42 
 221.69 
 301.47 
 2.16 
 1.12 
 3.12 
 719.98 
(c)	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d)	Disputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 190.42 
250.25 
 347.64 
 8.53 
 6.06 
 19.14 
 822.04 
(c)	 Refer Note 37 for payables to related parties.
Note: 24 Other Financial Liabilities - Current
Note: 25 Provisions - Current
198
199
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
(A)	Movement in Provision for corporate social responsibility:
	
Opening balance
 - 
 2.15 
	
Liability towards corporate social responsibility
 - 
 - 
	
Transferred to special purpose account
 - 
 (2.15)
	
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A)	Movement in Provision for warranty:
	
Opening balance
 23.86 
 22.33 
	
Provision created during the year
 29.08 
 15.97 
	
Provision reversed during the year
 - 
 - 
	
Provision used during the year
 (23.86)
 (14.44)
	
Closing balance
29.08
 23.86 
	
-	
Short Term
 29.08 
 23.86 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advances received from customers
 186.94 
 499.63 
Deferment of revenue
 108.52 
 86.35 
Grant relating to export benefits
 4.32 
 47.03 
Other payables
	
Liability towards corporate social responsibility* (Refer Note A below)
 - 
 - 
	
Statutory dues (Contribution to PF and ESIC, GST, Withholding Taxes, Entry Tax, etc.)
 61.73 
 63.43 
Total
 361.51 
 696.44 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for tax net of advance tax to the extent of H 1935.53 Mn 
(31 March 2024: H 1,909.73 Mn)
 95.15 
 43.56 
Total
 95.15 
 43.56 
Note: 25 Provisions - Current (Contd..)
Nature of provisions :
The Company has given warranties on certain products, undertaken to repair or replace the items that failed to perform satisfactorily 
during the warranty period. Provision made as on 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 represent the amount of the expected cost of 
meeting such obligation of rectification/ replacement.
Note: 26 Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
Note: 27 Other Current Liabilities
* Refer Note 35(a)(i)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Note 
As at 
31 March 2025
As at 
31 March 2024
Contract assets 
10(b)
 4.36 
 9.94 
Total contract assets
 4.36 
 9.94 
Contract liabilities - deferment of revenue
27
 108.52 
 86.35 
Contract liabilities - advances received from customers
27
 186.94 
 499.63 
Total contract liabilities
 295.46 
 585.98 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
North America
 1,128.20 
 1,072.90 
South America
 937.31 
 835.59 
EMER (Europe, Middle East and Russia)
 2,726.50 
 1,186.58 
Africa
 2,108.61 
 1,850.96 
Asia Pacific (South East Asia and Australia)
 558.58 
 679.11 
India
 1,178.83 
 1,451.61 
Total
 8,638.03 
 7,076.75 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
(i)	 Sale of products
 8,550.72 
 6,994.42 
(ii)	 Sale of services
 87.30 
 82.33 
 8,638.02 
 7,076.75 
(ii)	 Other operating revenue
	
Sale of scrap
 61.52 
 56.39 
	
Commission income
 27.32 
 34.44 
	
Duty drawback and other export incentives
 121.65 
 101.54 
	
Service fees
 102.45 
 99.28 
Total
 8,950.96 
 7,368.40 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue from operations
 8,950.96 
 7,368.40 
Total
 8,950.96 
 7,368.40 
Note: 28 Revenue From Operations
The Company has recognised the following amounts relating to revenue in the standalone statement of profit and loss:	
(i)	Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers:
	
(a)	
The Company derives revenue from the transfer of goods and services in the following geographical regions: 
	
(b)	 The entire revenue from sale of products and service is recognised at a point in time.
(ii)	The Company Has Recognised The Following Revenue-Related Contract 
Assets And Liabilities:
200
201
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
(a)	Interest income
	
on financial instruments at amortised cost
 16.32 
 19.35 
	
on income tax refund
 - 
 15.38 
(b)	Dividend income
	
from joint venture
 135.00 
 11.25 
(c)	Other non-operating income 
	
Net gain on sale of investments classified at FVTPL
 63.81 
 23.17 
	
Net gain on foreign currency transaction and translation
 193.04 
 100.26 
	
Liability written back
 45.68 
 - 
	
Net gain/ (losses) on fair value changes (refer table below)
 85.25 
 115.12 
	
Miscellaneous receipts 
 17.34 
 5.27 
Total
 556.44 
 289.80 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Contract Price
 8,676.48 
 7,114.35 
Adjustments for:
Refund liabilities - Claims/ Liquidating damages 
 (16.28)
 0.07 
Contract liabilities - Unfulfilled obligations at the beginning of the year recognised as 
revenue during the year
 86.35 
 48.68 
Contract liabilities - Unfulfilled obligations at the end of the year* 
 (108.52)
 (86.35)
Total
 8,638.03 
 7,076.75 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue recognised that was included in the contract liabilities balance at the 
beginning of the period:
Sale contracts
 530.48 
 125.75 
Note: 28 Revenue from operations (Contd..)
(iii)	
Revenue Recognised In Relation To Contract Liabilities:
	
The following table shows how much of the revenue recognised in the current reporting period relates to carried-forward contract liabilities.
(iv) The Following Table Shows Reconciliation Of Revenue Recognised With 
Contract Price:
	
* These unfulfilled obligations are expected to be settled within the next 12 months.
Note: 29 Other Income
Net Gain/ (Losses) On Fair Value Changes
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Change in far value of investments classified as FVTPL
 110.37 
 145.51 
Change in far value of derivatives classified as FVTPL
 (25.12)
 (30.39)
Total
85.25
115.12
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
i)	 Contribution to Provident Fund *
 29.86 
 26.04 
ii)	 Contribution to Superannuation Fund *
 14.14 
 13.33 
 44.00 
 39.37 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Salaries and wages (including bonus)
 720.49 
 677.08 
Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer Note 32.1)
 55.03 
 51.04 
Staff welfare expenses
 60.83 
 59.73 
Total
 836.35 
 787.85 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Closing Stock: 
Finished goods 
 421.65 
 642.46 
Work-in-progress 
 145.45 
 143.16 
 567.10 
 785.62 
Less : Opening Stock: 
Finished goods 
 642.46 
 337.46 
Work-in-progress 
 143.16 
 125.09 
 785.62 
 462.55 
(Increase)/ decrease in finished goods and work-in-progress 
 218.52 
 (323.07)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening stock
 1,133.25 
 909.40 
Add: Purchases
 4,092.84 
 3,645.22 
Less: Closing stock
 (1,377.74)
 (1,133.25)
Total
 3,848.35 
 3,421.37 
Note: 30 Cost Of Materials Consumed
Note: 31 Changes In Inventories Of Finished Goods And Work-In-Progress
Note: 32 Employee Benefits Expense
Note: 32.1 Employee Benefits Obligations
(i)	 Post-employment obligations
	
(a)	Defined contribution plan
	
	
The Company makes contribution to Provident Fund and Superannuation Fund defined contribution plans for qualifying 
employees. Under the Schemes, the Company is required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs to fund the 
benefits.  The contributions payable to these plans by the Company are at rates specified in the rules of the schemes.
	
	
(*) recognised under 'Contribution to provident and other funds' in Note 32.
202
203
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Present value 
of obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Net amount
As at 1 April 2024
 87.33 
 (75.92)
 11.41 
Current service cost
 10.23 
 - 
 10.23 
Interest expense/ (income)
 6.11 
 (5.32)
 0.79 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 16.34 
 (5.32)
 11.02 
Remeasurements
	
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 
expense/ (income)
 - 
 0.21 
 0.21 
	
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in financial assumptions
 2.70 
 - 
 2.70 
	
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in experience
 (1.28)
 - 
 (1.28)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 1.42 
 0.21 
 1.63 
Employer contributions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Benefit payments
 (2.99)
 2.99 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 102.10 
 (78.04)
 24.06 
Note: 32.1 Employee Benefits Obligations (Contd..)
	
(b)	Defined benefit plan - Funded Gratuity
	
	
The Company provides for gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan covering eligible employees. As per scheme, the Gratuity Trust 
fund managed by the Trust, makes payment to vested employees on retirement, death, incapacitation or termination of employment, 
of an amount based on the respective employee's eligible salary (fifteen days salary) depending upon the tenure of service subject to a 
revised maximum limit of amount payable under Payment of Gratuity Act. Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity plan are determined 
by actuarial valuation as set out in Note 2.15 based upon which, the Company makes contribution to the Gratuity fund.
(ii)	Other long term employee benefit plans
	
The leave obligations cover the Company's liability for other long term benefits.
	
Compensated absences cover the Company's liability for sick and earned leave. As the Company does not have an unconditional right 
to defer the payment beyond 12 months the entire amount has been treated as current.
(iii)	Balance sheet recognition
	
Gratuity
	
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet and the movements in the net defined benefit obligation (Gratuity) over the year are as follows:
Particulars
Present value 
of obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Net amount
As at 1 April 2023
 79.62 
 (42.75)
 36.87 
Current service cost
 9.02 
 - 
 9.02 
Interest expense/ (income)
 5.73 
 (3.08)
 2.65 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 14.75 
 (3.08)
 11.67 
Remeasurements
	
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 
expense/ (income)
 - 
 0.32 
 0.32 
	
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in financial assumptions
 1.86 
 - 
 1.86 
	
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in experience
 (4.31)
 - 
 (4.31)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 (2.45)
 0.32 
 (2.13)
Employer contributions
 - 
 (35.00)
 (35.00)
Benefit payments
 (4.59)
 4.59 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
 87.33 
 (75.92)
 11.41 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 32.1 Employee Benefits Obligations (Contd..)
(iv)	Significant estimates: actuarial assumptions
	
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Category of Plan Assets
Funds Managed by Insurer
97.68%
97.41%
Bank balance
2.32%
2.59%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate
6.75%
7.00%
Rate of Salary Increase
8.50%
8.50%
Rate of Employee Turnover
	
Upto 30 years
9.00%
9.00%
	
From 31 years to 44 years
4.00%
4.00%
	
More than 44 years
2.00%
2.00%
Mortality Rate During Employment
IALM 12-14 Ultimate
IALM 12-14 Ultimate
	
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors.
	
The expected return on plan assets is determined after taking into consideration composition of the plan assets held, assessed risks 
of assets management, historical results of the return on plan assets, and other relevant factors. 
(v)	Sensitivity analysis
	
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
Particulars
% change compared to base due to sensitivity
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Discount Rate (- / + 1%)
11.81%
-9.94%
11.86%
(10.00%)
 12.06 
 (10.15)
 10.36 
 (8.73)
Salary Growth Rate (- / + 1%)
-9.08%
10.13%
(9.13%)
10.27%
 (9.27)
 10.34 
 (7.98)
 8.97 
Attrition Rate (- / + 50%)
2.38%
-1.89%
2.05%
(1.64%)
 2.43 
 (1.93)
 1.79 
 (1.43)
Mortality Rate (- / + 10%)
0.15%
-0.15%
0.12%
(0.12%)
 0.15 
 (0.15)
 0.10 
 (0.10)
	
The above sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit 
obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability 
recognised in the balance sheet.
	
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior period.
(vi)	The major categories of plan assets
204
205
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Interest expenses on
Leases [Refer Note 3(b)]
 1.20 
 1.11 
Income tax
 2.08 
 - 
Bank borrowings and others
 71.87 
 100.57 
Other borrowing costs
 1.02 
 4.88 
Applicable loss on foreign currency transactions and translations
 5.23 
 0.30 
Total
 81.40 
 106.86 
Note: 32.1 Employee Benefits Obligations (Contd..)
(vii) Risk exposure
	
Valuations are performed on certain basic set of pre-determined assumptions and other regulatory framework which may vary over 
time. Thus, the Company is exposed to various risks in providing the above gratuity benefit which are as follows:
	
Interest Risk:
	
The plan exposes the Company to the risk of fall in interest rates. A fall in interest rates will result in an increase in the ultimate cost of 
providing the above benefit and will thus result in an increase in the value of the liability (as shown in standalone financial statements).
	
Liquidity Risk:
	
This is the risk that the Company is not able to meet the short-term gratuity pay-outs. This may arise due to non-availability of 
enough cash/ cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid assets not being sold in time.
	
Salary Escalation Risk:
	
The present value of the defined benefit plan's calculated with the assumption of salary increase rate of plan participants in future. 
Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan participants from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the 
present value of obligation will have a bearing on the plan's liability.
	
Demographic Risk:
	
The Company has used certain mortality and attrition assumptions in valuation of the liability. The Company is exposed to the risk 
of actual experience turning out to be worse compared to the assumption.
	
Regulatory Risk:
	
Gratuity benefit is paid in accordance with the requirements of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (as amended from time to time). 
There is a risk of change in regulations requiring higher gratuity pay-outs (e.g. Increase in the maximum limit on gratuity of H 2.00 Mn).
(viii)	
Defined benefit liability and employer contributions
	
The company expects to contribute H 35.47 Mn to the funded retiring gratuity plan in the financial year 2025-26.
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12 years (31 March 2024: 12 years).
Note: 33 Finance Costs
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 34 Depreciation And Amortisation Expenses
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Consumption of stores and spare parts
 100.01 
 97.64 
Power and fuel
 274.61 
 276.10 
Rent
 15.23 
 21.58 
Repairs to buildings
 16.07 
 18.07 
Repairs to machinery
 71.41 
 73.06 
Repairs to others 
 59.46 
 39.85 
Insurance expenses 
 24.79 
 18.30 
Bank charges
 5.08 
 3.14 
Rates and taxes 
 10.03 
 13.75 
Fabrication and other expenses
 242.45 
 230.57 
Travelling and conveyance 
 112.62 
 121.37 
Commission to selling agents
 39.58 
 28.56 
Marketing fees
 186.64 
 149.45 
Packing and forwarding (net)
 453.51 
 258.08 
Product installation expenses
 74.38 
 88.00 
Postage, telephone and fax 
 8.46 
 10.27 
Sales promotion expenses
 11.87 
 15.99 
Legal and professional fees 
 76.52 
 177.87 
Expenditure on corporate social responsibility activities [Refer (a) below]
 26.34 
 22.83 
Directors' sitting fees
 1.52 
 1.35 
Allowance for expected credit loss (including bad debts and advances written off)  
[Refer Note 10(a)]
 23.91 
 40.26 
Warranty expenses
 26.87 
 15.97 
Net (gain)/ loss on sale of property, plant and equipment including intangible assets 
(including loss on assets scrapped/ written off)
 1.88 
 2.19 
Payment to auditors [Refer (b) below]
 8.95 
 10.22 
Miscellaneous expenses*
104.99
 92.71 
Total
1977.18
 1,827.18 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment [Refer Note 3(a)]
 215.12 
 185.05 
Depreciation of Right-of-Use Assets [Refer Note 3(b)]
 13.58 
 12.12 
Amortisation of intangible assets [Refer Note 3(d)]
 12.33 
 3.06 
Total
 241.03 
 200.23 
Note: 35 Other Expenses
* includes H Nil (31 March 2024: H 10.00 Mn) contributed through electoral bond to All India Trinamool Congress.	 	
206
207
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of the Act
 26.20 
 22.75 
Amount spent during the year on:
(i)	 Construction/ acquisition of an asset@
	
-	
Paid in cash
 20.60 
 16.68 
	
	
 Yet to be paid in cash
 - 
 - 
(ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above
	
-	
Paid in cash$
 5.74 
 6.15 
	
-	
Yet to be paid in cash
 - 
 - 
Total
 26.34 
 22.83 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening balance unspent
 - 
 - 
Amount deposited in Specified Fund of Schedule VII of the Act within 6 months
 - 
 - 
Amount required to be spent during the year
 17.73 
 14.75 
Amount spent during the year
 17.88 
 14.83 
Closing balance unspent
-*
 -* 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening balance unspent
-	
with the Company
 - 
 - 
-	
in separate CSR unspent account
 - 
 2.15 
Amount required to be spent during the year
 8.46 
 8.00 
Amount spent during the year
-	
from the Company's bank account
 (8.46)
 (8.00)
-	
from separate CSR unspent account
 - 
 (2.15)
Closing balance unspent
 - 
 - 
-	
with the Company
 - 
 - 
-	
in separate CSR unspent account
 - 
 - 
Note: 35 Other Expenses (Contd..)
(a)	Expenditure On Corporate Social Responsibility Activities
	
(i)	 Details of corporate social responsibility expenditure are set out below:
	
	
@ assets are not in the books of the Company
	
	
$ includes H 1.05 Mn (31 March 2024: H 0.33 Mn) spent on administrative overheads.
	
(ii)	Details of corporate social responsibility expenditure under Section 135(5) of the 
Act in respect of other than ongoing projects:
	
	
*The Company does not propose to carry forward excess amount spent during the year aggregating to H 0.14 Mn (31 March 2024: H 0.08 Mn) for set off in 
succeeding financial years.
	
(iii)	Details of corporate social responsibility expenditure under Section 135(6) of the 
Act in respect of ongoing projects:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
As Auditors
i)	 audit fees (including H 0.75 Mn additional fees in respect of audit of financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2024)
 4.85 
 6.50 
ii)	 limited review
 3.03 
 2.48 
iii)	 tax audit fees
 - 
 0.60 
iv)	 certification fees (Including 0.13 Mn recognised in FY 24-25 for year ended  
31 March 2024)
 0.25 
 0.13 
v)	 for reimbursement of expenses
 0.82 
 0.51 
Total
 8.95 
 10.22 
Particulars
Charged/ (credited) to
Opening
Profit and Loss 
Account
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Closing
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 27.46 
 3.25 
 - 
 30.71 
Investments
 37.39 
 27.53 
 - 
 64.92 
Right-of-Use Assets
 1.74 
 6.64 
 - 
 8.38 
Others
 5.26 
 (4.31)
 - 
 0.95 
Allowances for expected credit losses
 (37.05)
 (2.43)
 - 
 (39.48)
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 (31.70)
 (2.51)
 (0.41)
 (34.62)
Lease liabilities
 (2.36)
 (6.33)
 - 
 (8.69)
Total
 0.74 
 21.84 
 (0.41)
 22.17 
Particulars
Charged/ (credited) to
Opening
Profit and Loss 
Account
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Closing
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 20.64 
 6.82 
 - 
 27.46 
Investments
 32.37 
 5.02 
 - 
 37.39 
Right-of-Use Assets
 3.46 
 (1.72)
 - 
 1.74 
Others
 5.50 
 (2.18)
 1.94 
 5.26 
Allowances for expected credit losses
 (29.47)
 (7.58)
 - 
 (37.05)
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 (27.88)
 (4.36)
 0.54 
 (31.70)
Lease liabilities
 (4.10)
 1.74 
 - 
 (2.36)
Total
 0.52 
 (2.26)
 2.48 
 0.74 
Note: 35 Other expenses (Contd..)
(b)	Payment To Auditors (Include Auditors Remuneration Paid/ Payable For 
The Year): 
Note: 36 Income Tax Expense
This note provides an analysis of the Company’s income tax expense, shows amounts that are recognised directly in equity and how 
the tax expense is affected by non-assessable and non-deductible items. It also explains significant estimates made in relation to the 
Company’s tax positions.
a)	 Movement In Deferred Tax Liability/ (Assets)
	
As at 31 March 2025
	
As at 31 March 2024
208
209
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year
 525.72 
 389.02 
Adjustments for current tax of prior periods
 (2.22)
 (13.99)
Total current tax expense
 523.50 
 375.03 
Deferred tax
Decrease/ (increase) in deferred tax assets
 (11.27)
 (10.20)
(Decrease)/ increase in deferred tax liabilities
 33.11 
 7.94 
Total deferred tax expense/ (benefit)
 21.84 
 (2.26)
Total tax expense
 545.34 
 372.77 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Profit before tax
 2,304.72 
 1,637.78 
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.17% (31 March 2024: 25.17%)
 580.05 
 412.20 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
	
Items not deductible in tax
 (31.89)
 8.03 
	
Items on which tax rate is different
 (1.05)
 (31.60)
	
Adjustments for current tax of prior periods
 (2.22)
 (13.99)
	
Others
 0.49 
 (1.87)
Total tax expense
 545.37 
 372.77 
Note: 36 Income Tax Expense (Contd..)
b)	 Income Tax Expense 
c)	 Reconciliation Of Tax Expense And The Accounting Profit Multiplied By Tax Rate:
Note: 37 Related Party Transactions
Related Party Disclosure Pursuant To Ind As 24 Prescribed Under The Act
Details of related parties:	
Description of relationship
Names of related parties
Where control exist
(a)	Holding Company
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited
(b)	Subsidiaries
Tega Industries, Inc.
Tega Industries Australia Pty. Ltd.
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Technicos Ltda
Tega Holdings Pte Limited
Tega McNally Minerals Limited (formerly known as McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Description of relationship
Names of related parties
(c)	Step down subsidiaries
Tega Investments South Africa Proprietary Limited
Tega Industries Africa Proprietary Limited
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
Losugen Pty Ltd
Tega Industries Chile SpA
Tega Industries Ghana Ltd. (wef. 4th January 2025)
Edoctum S.A.
Edoctum Peru S.A.C. (till 20 January 2024)
Tega Industries Peru SAC (wef. 23 January 2024)
Others with whom transaction taken 
place during the year or previous year
(a)	Fellow Subsidiaries
Trafalgar Consulting International Company Pvt Ltd.
MM Rosewood Buildinfra Pvt. Ltd.
Maple Orgtech (India) Limited (till 18 September 2024)
MM Aqua Technologies Limited (till 18 September 2024)
(b)	Joint Venture
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
(c)	Key Management Personnel (KMP)
Madan Mohan Mohanka -Chairman and Non Executive Non Independent Director 
(erstwhile Chairman and Whole-time Director till 31st January 2025)
Mehul Mohanka - Managing Director & CEO
Syed Yaver Imam - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (erstwhile Whole Time 
Director till 31st May 2024)
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha - Independent Director 
Madhu Dubhashi - Independent Director
Ashwani Maheshwari - Independent Director
Anand Sen - Independent Director (wef. 14th November 2024)
Manjuree Rai - Company Secretary
Sharad Kumar Khaitan - Chief Financial Officer (wef. 10 July 2023)
(d)	Relatives of KMP
Manju Mohanka
Manish Mohanka
(e)	Post Employment Benefit Plan
Tega India Ltd Employees Gratuity Fund
Tega India & Associate Companies Super Annuation Fund
Tega Industries (SEZ) Ltd Gratuity Trust
Tega Industries (SEZ) Ltd Super Annuation Fund
(f)	 Entities in which KMP/ Relatives of 
KMP can exercise significant influence
TPW Engineering Limited
Marudhar Food and Credit Limited (merged with Nihal Fiscal Services Private 
Limited w.e.f. 14 June 2023)
Maple Orgtech (India) Limited (wef. 18 September 2024)
MM Aqua Technologies Limited (wef. 18 September 2024)
Note: 37 Related Party Transactions (Contd..)
Note: Related parties have been identified by the Management.
210
211
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Holding 
Company
Subsidiaries 
(including 
stepdown 
subsidiaries)
Joint 
Venture
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Post 
Employment 
Benefit Plan
KMP
Relatives 
of KMP
Entities 
in which 
KMP/ 
relatives of 
KMP can 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Total
Business support service 
income@
 - 
 93.12 
 9.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.64 
 103.62 
Purchase of goods
 - 
 5.12 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.26 
Sale of goods
 - 
 3,790.86 
 11.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.32 3,802.96 
Installation income
 - 
 3.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.55 
Reimbursement of expenses
 - 
 47.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
 47.55 
Recovery of expenses
 - 
 35.53 
 0.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.71 
 37.39 
Marketing fee (expenses)
 - 
 186.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 186.64 
Interest income 
 - 
 14.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.80 
Interest Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
Dividend income
 - 
 - 
 135.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 135.00 
Dividend paid
 74.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  10.76 
 14.56 
 - 
 99.58 
Sales commission income
 - 
 - 
 22.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.32 
Rent/ Service charges/ Hire 
charges income
 - 
 - 
 3.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.90 
Rent/ Service charges/ Hire 
charges expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.17 
 0.55 
 1.72 
Contribution to post 
employment benefit plan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.30 
Security deposits given
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Refund of Security Deposit
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.57 
 0.57 
Loan given
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Corporate guarantee given
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Director Sitting Fees
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.52 
 - 
 - 
 1.52 
Direct Comission
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.16 
 - 
 - 
 8.16 
Note: 37 Related Party Transactions (Contd..) 
Related Party Disclosure Pursuant To Ind As 24 Prescribed Under The Act
Related Party Transaction for the year ended 31 March 2025:
@includes H 1.45 Mn on account of guarantee (stand-by letter of credit) commission recovered from a stepdown subsidiary and H 5.00 Mn on account of corporate guarantee 
commission recovered from a subsidiary
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Holding 
Company
Subsidiaries 
(including 
stepdown 
subsidiaries)
Joint 
Venture
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Post 
Employment 
Benefit Plan
KMP
Relatives 
of KMP
Entities 
in which 
KMP/ 
relatives of 
KMP can 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Total
Business support service 
income@
 - 
 84.70 
 9.94 
 0.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 95.56 
Purchase of goods
 - 
 1.96 
 0.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.99 
Sale of goods
 - 
 2,422.91 
 14.69 
 5.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 2,443.20 
Installation income
 - 
 4.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.02 
Reimbursement of expenses
 - 
 42.47 
 - 
 0.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.10 
Recovery of expenses
 - 
 17.36 
 1.87 
 0.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.97 
 24.86 
Marketing fee (expenses)
 - 
 149.49 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 149.49 
Interest income 
 - 
 15.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.18 
Dividend income
 - 
 - 
 11.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.25 
Dividend Paid
 71.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  10.76 
 14.56 
 2.60 
 99.58 
Sales commission income
 - 
 - 
 24.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.27 
Rent/ Service charges/ Hire 
charges income
 - 
 - 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.88 
Rent/ Service charges/ Hire 
charges expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.12 
 4.26 
 5.38 
Contribution to post 
employment benefit plan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 42.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 42.85 
Security deposits given
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 - 
 0.06 
Security deposits recovered
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Loan given
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Corporate guarantee given
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: 37 Related Party Transactions (Contd..) 
Related Party Transaction for the year ended 31 March 2024:
@ includes H 1.40 Mn on account of guarantee (stand-by letter of credit) commission recovered from a subsidiary
212
213
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Holding 
Company
Subsidiaries 
(including 
stepdown 
subsidiaries)
Joint 
Venture
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Post 
Employment 
Benefit Plan
KMP
Relatives 
of KMP
Entities 
in which 
KMP/ 
relatives of 
KMP can 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Total
Trade receivables
 - 
 675.98 
 1.10 
 0.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 677.50 
Contract assets
 - 
 0.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.63 
Security deposit
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.17 
 0.57 
 0.74 
Advance received from 
customers
 - 
 316.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 316.63 
Loans$
 - 
 196.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196.00 
Trade payables
 - 
 63.72 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.60 
 64.42 
Advance to suppliers
 - 
 0.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.21 
Financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
Other payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.16 
Investments in equity shares*
 - 
 5,184.27 
 150.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 5,334.34 
Standby letter of credit#
 - 
 181.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 181.93 
Corporate guarantee
 - 
 1,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 1,000.00 
Provisions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.41 
Particulars
Holding 
Company
Subsidiaries 
(including 
stepdown 
subsidiaries)
Joint 
Venture
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Post 
Employment 
Benefit Plan
KMP
Relatives 
of KMP
Entities in 
which KMP/ 
relatives of 
KMP can 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Total
Trade receivables
 - 
 1,856.22 
 1.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 2.06 1,859.54 
Contract assets
 - 
 4.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.36 
Security deposit
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
 0.13 
Advance received from 
customers
 - 
 136.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 136.04 
Loans$
 - 
 200.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.87 
Trade payables
 - 
 8.42 
 0.11 
 - 
 1.09 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.05 
 9.67 
Advance to suppliers
 - 
 55.52 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 55.52 
Other payables
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
Provisions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77.45 
Note: 37 Related Party Transactions (Contd..) 
Other Terms And Conditions Of Transactions With Related Parties:
Transactions related to dividend were on the same terms and conditions that applied to all shareholders. All other transactions were made 
on normal commercial terms and conditions and at market rates.
Balances outstanding as at 31 March 2025:
$ includes H 18.31 Mn on account of foreign exchange gain.
* Excluding the impact of impairment loss in the value of investment in a subsidiary H 10.17 Mn
Balances outstanding as at 31 March 2024:
$ includes H 13.45 Mn on account of foreign exchange gain.
* Excluding the impact of impairment loss in the value of investment in a subsidiary H 10.17 Mn
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 37 Related Party Transactions (Contd..) 
Other Terms And Conditions Of Transactions With Related Parties
All outstanding balances are unsecured and repayable in cash
Disclosure pursuant to Section 186(4) of the Companies Act 2013, regarding loans given are mentioned above, disclosure for, investment 
made and guarantee given are mentioned in the respective notes of loans (Refer Note 13(b)), investment in subsidiaries and joint venture 
(Refer Note 4), and guarantees (Refer Note 43B) respectively.
Remuneration to KMP
During the year, the Company has recognised an amount of H140.23 Mn (31 March 2024: H 166.79 Mn) as remuneration to key managerial 
personnel. The details of such remuneration is as below:
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Short term employee benefits
 117.88 
 126.15 
Post employment benefits
 6.79 
 6.32 
Other long term employee benefits
 0.34 
 0.65 
Total employee benefits expense
125.01 
 133.12 
Perquisite
 2.14
 1.81 
Sitting fees
 1.52 
 1.35 
Commission/ incentive to directors
 8.93 
 14.75 
Professional fees
 2.63 
 15.76 
Total other expenses
 15.22 
 33.67 
Note: 38 Fair Value Measurements
Financial Instruments By Category
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
FVTPL
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Amortised cost
Investments
-	
Subsidiaries and joint venture
 5,324.17 
 5,324.17 
-	
Mutual funds
 2,082.74 
 - 
 2,312.91 
 - 
Trade receivables 
 - 
 3,351.10 
 - 
 2,338.60 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 52.48 
 - 
 37.71 
Other bank balances
 - 
 0.46 
 - 
 2.77 
Loans
 - 
 201.44 
 - 
 196.12 
Other financial assets
 - 
 25.82 
 - 
 18.22 
Derivative assets
 41.30 
 - 
 74.19 
 - 
Total financial assets
 2,124.04 
 3,631.30 
 2,387.10 
 2,593.42 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
 - 
 1,027.02 
 - 
 1,246.52 
Derivative liabilities
 40.47 
 - 
 15.40 
 - 
Trade payables 
 - 
 674.21 
 - 
 822.04 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 109.45 
 - 
 164.73 
Total financial liabilities
 40.47 
 1,810.68 
 15.40 
 2,233.29 
214
215
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value - recurring fair value measurements
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
As at 31 March 2025
Financial assets
Investments
-	
Mutual funds
 2,082.74 
 - 
 - 
 2,082.74 
Derivative financial assets
 - 
 41.30 
 - 
 41.30 
Total financial assets
 2,082.74 
 41.30 
 - 
 2,124.04 
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
 - 
 40.47 
 - 
 40.47 
Total financial liabilities`
 - 
 40.47 
 - 
 40.47 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value - recurring fair value measurements
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
As at 31 March 2024
Financial assets
Investments
-	
Mutual funds
 2,312.91 
 - 
 - 
 2,312.91 
Derivative financial assets
 - 
 74.19 
 - 
 74.19 
Total financial assets
 2,312.91 
 74.19 
 - 
 2,387.10 
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
 - 
 15.40 
 - 
 15.40 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 15.40 
 - 
 15.40 
Note: 38 Fair Value Measurements (Contd..)
(i)	 Fair value hierarchy
	
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a) 
recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial 
statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classified 
its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows 
underneath the table.
	
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date. This includes mutual funds that are 
actively traded at  NAVs.
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives, 
fixed maturity mutual funds) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as 
little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is 
generally the case for unlisted equity securities.
	
There are no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Risk
Exposure arising from
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, 
investments and other financial assets measured 
at amortised cost.
Diversification of bank deposits and investments. 
Entering into transactions with customers of 
repute / customers having sound financial position.
Liquidity risk
Financial liabilities that are settled by delivering 
cash or another financial asset.
Projecting cash flows and considering the level 
of liquid assets necessary to meet the liabilities.
Market risk – foreign exchange
Future commercial transactions and recognised 
financial assets and liabilities not denominated in 
Indian rupee (H).
Entering into forward contracts, options and 
interest rate swaps.
Market risk – interest rate
Long-term borrowings at variable rates.
Entering into derivative contracts such as 
interest rate swaps and currency swaps.
Market risk – security price risk
Investments in mutual funds and perpetual bonds.
Portfolio diversification.
Note: 38 Fair Value Measurements (Contd..)
(ii)	Valuation technique used to determine fair value
	
(a)	
Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecasted cash flow information 
where applicable.
	
(b)	 Investments (Mutual funds) carried at fair value are generally based on available NAVs.
	
(c)	
Fair value of borrowings is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows. The carrying amounts of other borrowings 
with floating rate of interest are considered to be close to the fair value.
	
(d)	 The carrying amounts of remaining financial assets and liabilities are considered to be the same as their fair values.
	
(e)	
Management uses its best judgement in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However, there are inherent 
limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, for substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented 
below are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as 
of respective dates. As such, fair value of financial instruments subsequent to the reporting dates may be different from the 
amounts reported at each reporting date.
(iii)	Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost:
	
Except as detailed in the following table, the management consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities 
recognised in the financial statements approximates their fair values.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Carrying amount
Fair value
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
 4.94 
 4.86 
 7.75 
 7.81 
Total financial liabilities
 4.94 
 4.86 
 7.75 
 7.81 
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (i.e. foreign currency risk, interest 
rate risk and price risk).
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk:
216
217
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
(A)	
Credit Risk
	
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to 
a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables and contract assets) 
including deposits with banks, investments and other financial instruments. The Company periodically monitors the recoverability 
and credit risks of its other financial assets including security deposits and other receivables.
	
i)	 Trade receivables
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed by the management subject to the Company's established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing. Outstanding customer receivables are 
regularly monitored.
	
	
At each reporting date the Company measures loss allowance for certain class of financial assets based on historical trend 
industry practice and the business environment in which the Company operates. The assumptions and estimates applied for 
determining credit loss are reviewed periodically. The company also uses lifetime of expected credit loss model based on 
provisional matrix for estimating the allowance for excepted credit losses.
	
ii)	 Financial instruments and cash deposits
	
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and investments is managed by the Company in accordance with the Company’s policy. 
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. 
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential 
failure to make payments.
	
	
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 
2024 is the carrying amounts of trade receivables, investments, balances with bank and other financial assets.
(B)	
Liquidity Risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are 
settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
	
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature 
of the underlying businesses, Company's treasury maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company’s liquidity position and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.
	
(i)	 Maturities of financial liabilities
	
	
The tables below analyse the Company's financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual maturities:
	
	
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
31 March 2025
Carrying 
Value
Contractual 
Cash Flows
Less than 
 1 year
1 - 3 
years
3 - 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivatives
Borrowings 
 1,027.02 
 1,027.02 
 961.02 
 66.00 
 - 
 - 
Lease liabilities
 34.97 
 61.07 
 14.40 
 19.90 
 3.62 
 23.17 
Trade payables
 674.21 
 674.21 
 674.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 1.99 
 1.99 
 1.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest payable on above borrowings**
 2.83 
 8.39 
 7.17 
 1.22 
 - 
 - 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities
 1,741.02 
 1,772.68 
 1,658.79  87.12 
 3.62 
 23.17 
Derivatives (net settled)
Foreign exchange forward/ option/ swap contracts
 40.47 
 40.47 
 36.59 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
Total derivative liabilities
 40.47 
 40.47 
 36.59 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
	
	
** Based on closing rates
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
31 March 2024
Carrying 
Value
Contractual 
Cash Flows
Less than 
 1 year
1 - 3 
years
3 - 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivatives
Borrowings 
 1,246.52 
 1,246.52 
 1,066.43 
180.09 
 - 
 - 
Lease liabilities
 9.39 
 27.58 
 6.73 
 0.64 
 0.40 
 19.81 
Trade payables
 822.04 
 822.04 
 822.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 40.34 
 40.34 
 40.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest payable on above borrowings**
 6.52 
 25.47 
 16.96 
 8.51 
 - 
 - 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities
 2,124.81 
 2,161.95 
 1,952.50 
189.24 
 0.40 
 19.81 
Derivatives (net settled)
Foreign exchange forward/ option/ swap contracts
 15.40 
 15.40 
 5.91 
 9.49 
 - 
 - 
Total derivative liabilities
 15.40 
 15.40 
 5.91 
 9.49 
 - 
 - 
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
** Based on closing rates
	
(ii)	 As of 31 March 2025, the maximum potential liability under financial guarantees (referred in Note 43B) amounted to H 1,162.40 
Mn (31 March 2024: H 1,181.93 Mn). Financial guarantees are assumed to be due immediately on invocation.
(C)	
Market Risk
	
(i)	 Foreign currency risk
	
	
The Company deals with foreign currency bank accounts, trade receivables, loans, borrowings, trade payables and is therefore 
exposed to foreign exchange risk associated with exchange rate movement.
	
	
The Company operates internationally and portion of the business is transacted in several currencies and consequently the 
Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its sales in overseas and purchases from overseas suppliers in various 
foreign currencies. Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods, commodities and 
services in the respective currencies. The Company primarily uses derivatives to hedge its risk against foreign currency balances 
of borrowings, trade payables and trade receivable and contract assets. Such exposures are managed within approved policy 
parameters utilising foreign exchange forward contracts and options. Further, the Company also has variable interest rate loan 
218
219
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
SGD
USD
GBP
SEK
RUB
ZAR
GHS
Financial assets
Trade receivables$
 - 
 7.13 
 56.53 
 116.26 
 - 
 1,751.90 
 - 
 1,209.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.03 
 0.07 
 0.00 
 0.22 
 0.02 
 1.49 
 0.01 
 - 
 0.00^ 
Offset by derivatives:
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 - 
 (21.52) (155.14)
 (144.81)
 -  (1,042.10)
 - (1,194.25)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (assets)
 - 
(14.26)
(98.58)
 (28.48)
 0.00^ 
 910.89  0.02 
 17.07  0.01 
 - 
 0.00^ 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (178.11)
 (11.83)
 (39.63)
 - 
 3.64 
 0.83 
 - 
 - 
Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(1,022.08)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2.85)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Offset by derivatives:
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign exchange forward contracts/ Foreign Currency 
option contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 179.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (liabilities)
 - 
 - 
 -  (178.11)
(11.83)
 (885.06)
 - 
 3.64  0.83 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure
 - 
(14.26)
(98.58)
 (206.59)
(11.83)
 25.83  0.02 
 20.71  0.84 
 - (0.00)^
	
	
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Company
in foreign currency. To manage its risk against interest rate movements the Company has taken an interest rate swap. The Company also enter into derivative contracts to 
hedge forecast sales and purchase transactions using forward contracts.
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
Foreign currency risk exposure
	
	
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk for major currencies at the end of the reporting period expressed in H (foreign currency amount multiplied by closing rate), 
are as follows:-
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
SGD
USD
GBP
SEK
RUB
ZAR
GHS
Financial assets
Trade receivables$
 - 
 17.60 
 3.16 
 143.04 
 - 
 1,695.46 
 - 
 114.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash and Cash equivalents 
 1.08 
 0.02 
 0.03 
 0.04 
 0.00^ 
 0.23 
 0.06 
 7.18 
 0.01 
 - 
 0.00^ 
Offset by derivatives:
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 - 
 (19.21)
 (55.14)
 (159.87)
 -  (1,797.56)
 - 
 (330.86)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (assets)
 1.08 
 (1.59)
(51.95)
 (16.79)
 - 
 94.13  0.06  (209.34)
 0.01 
 -  0.00^ 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (203.94)
 (51.97)
 (99.31)
 - 
 (12.51)
 - 
(1.69)
 - 
Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (387.83)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5.28)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Offset by derivatives:
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign exchange forward contracts/ Foreign Currency 
option contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80.89 
 - 
 387.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (liabilities)
 - 
 - 
 -  (123.05)
(51.97)
 (104.59)
 - 
 (12.51)
 - 
(1.69)
 - 
Net exposure
 1.08 
 (1.59)
(51.95)
 (139.84)
(51.97)
 (10.46)
 0.06  (221.85)
 0.01 
(1.69)
 0.00^ 
Particulars
Impact on profit before tax/ equity
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
SGD
USD
GBP
SEK
RUB
ZAR
GHS
As at 31 March 2025
H appreciates by 5%*
 - 
 0.71 
 4.93 
 10.33 
 0.59 
 (1.29)
 (0.00)
 (1.04)
 (0.04)
 -  (0.00)^ 
H depreciates by 5%*
 - 
 (0.71)
 (4.93)
 (10.33)
 (0.59)
 1.29 
 0.00 
 1.04 
 0.04 
 - 
 0.00^ 
As at 31 March 2024
H appreciates by 5%*
 (0.05)
 0.08 
 2.60 
 6.98 
 2.60 
 0.52 
 (0.00)
 12.74 
 (0.00)
 0.08  (0.00)^ 
H depreciates by 5%*
 0.05 
 (0.08)
 (2.60)
 (6.98)
 (2.60)
 (0.52)
0.00^
 (12.74)
 0.00 
 (0.08)
 0.00^ 
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Company
	
	
Sensitivity
	
	
The sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated financial instruments.
	
	
* Holding all other variables constant
	
	
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Company
	
	
$ The Company also has exposure for contract assets amounting to H 4.36 Mn (in CAD - H 1.74 Mn and in USD - H 2.62 Mn) [31 March 2024: H  H 9.94 Mn (in CAD - H 0.63 Mn, In EUR - H 0.23 Mn and in USD - H 9.08 Mn)
220
221
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
(ii)	Price risk
	
	
(a)	Exposure
	
	
	
Security price risk is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to change in market traded 
prices. The company invests its surplus funds primarily in liquid schemes of mutual funds (debt instruments) which are 
categorised as low risk products from liquidity and interest rate perspectives. The carrying amount of the Company's 
investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss at the end of the reporting period.[Refer Note 9].
	
	
(b)	Sensitivity
	
	
	
Company has invested in growth model of these securities as at the year end. The sensitivity analysis below is presented 
with reference to changes in NAV of these securities:-
Particulars
Impact on profit before tax/ equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
NAV - Increases by 1% *
 20.83 
 23.13 
NAV - Decreases by 1% *
 (20.83)
 (23.13)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Variable rate borrowings#
 1,022.08 
 1,238.77 
Total
 1,022.08 
 1,238.77 
	
	
	
* Holding all other variables constant
	
(iii)	Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
	
	
The Company’s main interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings with variable rates, which expose the Company to 
cash flow interest rate risk.
	
	
The Company’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk as defined in 
Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
	
	
(a)	Interest rate risk exposure
	
	
	
On Financial Liabilities:
	
	
	
The exposure of the Company’s financial liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows:
	
	
	
# Long term borrowings amounting to H 179.50 Mn (31 March 2024: H 387.83  Mn) is covered through interest rates swaps.
	
	
(b)	Sensitivity
	
	
	
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense from borrowings as a result of changes in interest rates as below:
Particulars
Impact on profit before tax/ equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense rates – increase by 50 basis points (50 bps)*
 (5.11)
 (6.19)
Interest expense rates – decrease by 50 basis points (50 bps)*
 5.11 
 6.19 
	
	
	
* Holding all other variables constant
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 39 Financial risk management (Contd..)
	
(iv)	Impact of hedging activities
	
	
(a)	Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:
	
	
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Type of hedge and risk
Nominal value
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio*
Weighted 
average 
strike rate for 
out-standing 
hedging 
instruments
Change in intrinsic 
value of out-
standing hedging 
instruments since 
inception of the 
hedges
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Cash flow hedge
Foreign exchange risk
(a)	 Foreign exchange 
forward contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Type of hedge and risk
Nominal value
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio*
Weighted 
average 
strike rate for 
out-standing 
hedging 
instruments
Change in intrinsic 
value of out-
standing hedging 
instruments since 
inception of the 
hedges
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Cash flow hedge
Foreign exchange risk
(a)	 Foreign exchange 
forward contracts
 330.86 
 - 
 8.05 
 - 
April 
2024 - 
July 2024
1:1
SEK 1:H8.06
 8.05 
 (8.05)
	
	
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2024
	
	
	
	
* The foreign currency forwards are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales (SEK); therefore, the hedge ratio is 1:1.
222
223
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 39 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
(b)	Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance
	
	
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Type of hedge
Change in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
Amount 
reclassified 
from cash flow 
hedging reserve 
to profit or loss
Line item 
affected in 
statement of 
profit and loss 
because of the 
reclassification
Cash flow hedge
(a)	 Foreign exchange risk
 - 
 - 
 7.70 
Other Income
Type of hedge
Change in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
Amount 
reclassified 
from cash flow 
hedging reserve 
to profit or loss
Line item 
affected in 
statement of 
profit and loss 
because of the 
reclassification
Cash flow hedge
(a)	 Foreign exchange risk
 7.70 
 0.35 
 - 
Not Applicable
Outstanding balance in Cash flow hedge reserve to be 
subsequently recycled from OCI
As at 
31 March 2025
As at 
31 March 2024
Within one year
 - 
 5.76 
Between one and three years
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 5.76 
	
	
(c)	 The amount recognised in cash flow hedge reserve (net of tax) is expected to impact the statement of profit 
and loss as below:
	
	
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2024
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 40 Earnings Per Share
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Computation of earnings per equity share:
A
Net profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
 1,759.39 
 1,265.01 
B
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year other than which are dilutive
 6,65,35,492 
 6,64,50,328 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year which are dilutive
C
Effect of potential ordinary shares on employee stock options outstanding
 - 
 1,90,525 
D=(B+C) Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year (dilutive)
 6,65,35,492 
 6,66,40,853 
Earnings per equity share 
(Face Value H 10/- per share)
A/B
Earnings per share - Basic (in H)
 26.44 
 19.04 
A/D
Earnings per share - Diluted (in H)
 26.44 
 18.98 
Note: 41 Capital Management
(a)	Risk management
	
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to:
 
 
safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits 
for other stakeholders, and
 
 
maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
	
The capital structure of the Company is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balance of key elements in order to 
meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in 
economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, 
long term borrowings and short term borrowings.
	
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
	
The Company’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, 
creditors and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. The Company will take appropriate 
steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
(b)	Dividends Paid And Proposed
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Equity shares
(i)	 Dividend declared and paid during the year
	
Final dividend paid during the year 
 133.07 
 132.90 
(ii)	Proposed dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
	
The Directors have recommended the payment of H 2 per equity share of H 10 each 
for the year ended 31 March 2025 (31 March 2024: H 2). This proposed dividend is 
subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
 133.07 
 133.07 
224
225
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Other assets
Liabilities from financing activities
Total
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
Non-
current 
borrowings
Current 
borrowings
Lease 
liabilities 
 Net derivative 
assets (Swap 
and Option)
Net debt as at 1 April 2024*
 37.71 
 (400.86)
 (851.52)
 (9.39)
 53.84 (1,170.22)
Cash flows
 14.64 
 177.18 
 13.87 
 - 
 - 
 205.69 
Principal repayment of lease
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.78 
 - 
 8.78 
Interest expense
 - 
 (25.39)
 (53.02)
 (1.20)
 - 
 (79.61)
Interest paid
 - 
 29.08 
 53.02 
 1.20 
 - 
 83.30 
Subvention interest received
 - 
 - 
 (0.66)
 - 
 - 
 (0.66)
Payment on derivative settlement (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (32.85)
 (32.85)
Non-cash movements:
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unrealised foreign exchange
 0.28 
 32.73 
 (4.27)
 - 
 - 
 28.74 
Other adjustments for lease 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (34.36)
 - 
 (34.36)
Derivative gain (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.84 
 3.84 
Net debt as at 31 March 2025*
 52.63 
 (187.26)
 (842.58)
 (34.97)
 24.83 
 (987.35)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
 52.48 
 37.71 
Non-current borrowings
 (66.00)
 (180.09)
Current borrowings
 (842.58)
 (850.94)
Current maturities of long term borrowings
 (118.44)
 (215.49)
Lease liabilities 
 (34.97)
 (9.39)
Net derivative assets (Swap and Option)
 24.84 
 53.84 
Interest accrued on long term borrowings
 (2.83)
 (5.28)
Interest accrued on short term borrowings*
 - 
 (0.58)
Total
 (987.50)
 (1,170.22)
Note: 41 Capital Management (Contd..)
(c)	Net debt Reconciliation
	
This section sets out an analysis of debt and the movements in net debt for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024:
	
* Net-off interest receivable on account of subvention of interest of HNil Mn (31 March 2024: H 0.66 Mn)
	
*balances include interest accrued on borrowings
Particulars
Other assets
Liabilities from financing activities
Total
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
Non-
current 
borrowings
Current 
borrowings
Lease 
liabilities 
 Net derivative 
assets (Swap 
and Option)
Net debt as at 1 April 2023*
 42.11 
 (621.19)
 (968.97)
 (16.30)
 70.69 (1,493.66)
Cash flows
 (3.85)
 188.70 
 110.15 
 - 
 - 
 295.00 
Principal repayment of lease
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.91 
 - 
 6.91 
Interest expense
 - 
 (45.53)
 (59.92)
 (1.11)
 - 
 (106.56)
Interest paid
 - 
 47.14 
 61.09 
 1.11 
 - 
 109.34 
Subvention interest received
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Payment on derivative settlement (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (31.20)
 (31.20)
Non-cash movements:
 - 
Unrealised foreign exchange
 (0.55)
 30.02 
 6.13 
 - 
 - 
 35.60 
Other adjustments for lease 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Derivative gain (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.35 
 14.35 
Net debt as at 31 March 2024*
 37.71 
 (400.86)
 (851.52)
 (9.39)
 53.84 (1,170.22)
	
*balances include interest accrued on borrowings
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 42 Segment Information
The Company is engaged in the business of manufacturing and distribution of specialized ‘critical to operate’ and recurring consumable 
products for the global mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk solids handling industry. In accordance with Ind AS 108 "Operating Segments", 
the Company has presented the segment information on the basis of its consolidated financial statements.
Note: 43a Contingent Liabilities (To The Extent Not Provided For)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i)	 Financial Guarantees
	
1)	 Stand-by letter of credit given by the Company to secure the financial assistance 
extended to Tega Industries Chile SpA (step down subsidiary) 
	
	
Limit USD 2.00 Mn* (31 March 2024: USD 3.55 Mn*)
 170.95 
 295.67 
	
	
Facility utilised at year end USD 1.90 Mn* (31 March 2024: USD 2.18 Mn*)
 162.40 
 181.93 
	
	
*based on closing rates
	
2)	 Corporate Guarantee given by the company to secure the financial assistance 
extended to a Tega McNally Minerals Limited (subsidiary company)
	
	
Limit 
 1,200.00 
 1,200.00 
	
	
Facility utilised at year end 
 1,000.00 
 1,000.00 
(ii)	Capital Commitments
	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for.
 10.91 
 36.28 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contingent liabilities - Claims against the company not acknowledged as debt
Disputed Excise Duty
 4.37 
 4.37 
Disputed Service Tax
 1.30 
 1.30 
Disputed Income Tax
 85.30 
 66.38 
Disputed Sales Tax
 4.36 
 4.36 
Disputed Goods & Service Tax
 5.61 
-
In respect of the contingent liabilities mentioned above, pending resolution of the respective proceedings, it is not practicable for the 
Company to estimate the timings of cash outflows, if any. 
Note: 43b Financial Guarantees And Capital Commitments
In respect of matters mentioned in Note (i) above, the cash outflows, if any, could generally occur during the validity period of the 
respective guarantees. The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
226
227
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
% change
(a)	 Current Ratio (in times)
 3.51 
 2.46 
42.68%
(b)	 Debt-Equity Ratio (in times)*
 0.08 
 0.11 
-27.27%
(c)	 Debt Service Coverage Ratio (in times)
 7.94 
 5.16 
53.88%
(d)	Return on Equity Ratio (%)
14.34%
11.62%
23.41%
(e)	 Inventory Turnover Ratio (in times)#
 1.94 
 1.49 
30.20%
(f)	 Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio (in times)
 3.04 
 3.03 
0.33%
(g)	 Trade Payables Turnover Ratio (in times)
 6.80 
 6.57 
3.50%
(h)	 Net Capital Turnover Ratio (in times)
 1.46 
 1.68 
-13.10%
(i)	 Net Profit Ratio (%)
19.65%
17.17%
14.44%
(j)	 Return on Capital Employed (%)
16.85%
13.72%
22.81%
(k)	 Return on Investment (%)
15.34%
12.00%
27.83%
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Employee benefits expense
 53.36 
 48.23 
Travelling expenses 
 10.61 
 6.91 
Product development
 0.46 
 0.75 
Patent cost
 4.09 
 3.94 
Total
 68.52 
 59.83 
Note: 45 Ratios Elements And Its Analysis
(i)	Ratios
Note: 43C
The Company has evaluated the impact of the Supreme Court Judgment in case of "Vivekananda Vidyamandir And Others Vs The Regional 
Provident Fund Commissioner (II) West Bengal" and the related circular (Circular No. C-I/1(33)2019/Vivekananda Vidya Mandir/284) 
dated 20 March 2019 issued by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation in relation to non-exclusion of certain allowances from the 
definition of "basic wages" of the relevant employees for the purposes of determining contribution to provident fund under the Employees' 
Provident Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. While further clarification on applicability and operation of the Order is awaited 
from the Provident Fund authorities, based on estimates by the management, the impact of the Order is not expected to be material on 
the standalone financial statements. The management will continue to assess the impact of further developments relating to retrospective 
application of the Supreme Court's judgement considering the additional guidance as and when issued by the statutory authorities.
Note: 44 Details Of Research And Development Expenditure 
Recognised As An Expense
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Ratios
Numerator
Denominator
(a) Current Ratio
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
(b) Debt-Equity Ratio
Total Debt = Current borrowings + Non-Current 
borrowings + Current lease liabilities + Non-
Current lease liabilities
Total Equity
(c) Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Profit for the year + Finance costs + Depreciation 
and amortisation expenses
Interest and Lease Payments + 
Principal Repayments
(d) Return on Equity Ratio
Profit for the year
Average Equity
(e) Inventory Turnover Ratio
Cost of materials consumed + Changes in 
inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress
Average Inventory as at 31 March 
2025
(f) Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio
Revenue from Sale of Products and Sale of Services
Average Trade Receivables as at 31 
March 2025
(g) Trade payables Turnover Ratio
Purchases + Other Expenses-(Bank charges + 
Directors' sitting fees + Allowance for expected 
credit loss + Warranty Expenses + Rates and 
taxes + Derivatives at FVTPL + Expenditure on 
corporate social responsibility activities + Net 
loss on sale of property, plant and equipment + 
Provision for diminution in value of investment)
Average Trade Payables as at 31 
March 2025
(h) Net capital Turnover Ratio
Revenue from Sale of Products and Sale of Services
Working Capital (Current Assets - 
Current Liabilities)
(i) Net Profit Ratio
Profit for the year
Revenue from Operations
(j) Return on Capital Employed
Profit before tax + Finance costs
Capital Employed = Total Equity + 
Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities 
+ Lease Liabilities
(k) Return on Investment
Profit before tax + Finance costs
Closing Total Assets
Note: 45 Ratios elements and its analysis (Contd..)
Note: 46 Share-based payments
(a)	The share-based payment plan is an employee option plan. The options are equity settled options.
(b)	Set Out Below Is The Summary Of Options
Particulars
Year ended 31 March 2025
Year ended 31 March 2024
Average 
exercise price/ 
share in H 
No. of options
Average 
exercise price/ 
share in H 
No. of options
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
 39.38 
 2,96,288 
Granted during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the year
 - 
 - 
 30.77 
 1,81,380 
Expired during the year
 - 
 - 
 52.96 
 1,14,908 
Forfeited during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
Vested and exercisable
 - 
 - 
(ii)	Elements Of Ratios for the year ended 31 march 2025
228
229
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Grant
Grant date
Exercise period
Exercise price/ 
share in H
Share options as 
on 31 March 2025
Share options as 
on 31 March 2024
Grant I
04-Mar-11
2 years from the date of listing 
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant II
04-Mar-11
2 years from the date of listing 
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant III
16-Nov-12
2 years from the date of listing 
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant IV
02-Jul-13
2 years from the date of listing 
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant V
28-Jan-15
2 years from the date of listing 
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant
Grant date
Expiry date
Exercise price/ 
share in H
Share options as 
on 31 March 2025
Share options as 
on 31 March 2024
Grant I
04-Mar-11
13-Dec-23
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant II
04-Mar-11
13-Dec-23
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant III
16-Nov-12
13-Dec-23
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant IV
02-Jul-13
13-Dec-23
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant V
28-Jan-15
13-Dec-23
76.92
 - 
 - 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at end of period 
 (in years)
-
-
(c)	Share Options Outstanding At The End Of The Year Have The Following 
Exercise Period And Exercise Prices:
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2025 was H Nil (31 
March 2024 : H 981.23)
(d)	Contractual life of options
(e)	Fair value of options granted
	
No grants were issued during the year.
(f)	Expense arising from share-based payment transactions
	
Total expenses arising from share-based payment transactions recognised in profit or loss as part of employee benefit expense were 
Nil (31 March 2024: Nil).
(g)	 The existing Employee Stock Option Scheme 2011 has been aligned with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2021 and the same was approved in Board Resolution dated 11 February 2022 and shareholder’s 
resolution vide postal ballot dated 3 April 2022. The Company has received in-principle approval from the stock exchange for the 
said scheme. During the current year Nil (31 March 2024: 181,380) equity shares has been exercised.
Note: 46 Share-based payments (Contd..)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
 Principal place 
of business/ 
country of 
incorporation 
 Ownership Interest in percentage 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
Tega Industries, Inc.
USA
100%
100%
Tega Industries Australia Pty. Ltd.
Australia
100%
100%
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
Canada
100%
100%
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Technicos Ltda
Brazil
99.99%
99.99%
Tega Holdings Pte Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
Tega McNally Minerals Limited
India
100%
100%
Subsidiaries of a Subsidiary
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
Australia
100%
100%
Losugen Pty Ltd
Australia
100%
100%
Tega Industries Chile SpA
Chile 
100%
100%
Edoctum S.A.
Chile 
100%
99.89%
Edoctum Peru S.A.C. (till 20 January 2024)
Peru
-
100%
Tega Industries Peru SAC (from 23 January 2024)
Peru
100%
100%
Tega Investments South Africa Proprietary Limited
South Africa
100%
100%
Tega Industries Africa Proprietary Limited
South Africa
100%
100%
Tega Industries Ghana Limited (wef. 4 January 2025)
Ghana
100%
0%
Joint Venture
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
India
50%
50%
Note: 47 Reconciliation Of Quarterly Bank Returns
For the year ended 31 March 2025
The Company has filed quarterly returns/ statements with the banks in lieu of the sanctioned working capital facilities which are in 
agreement with the books of accounts. Quarterly returns/ statements for the quarter ended 31 March 2025 is yet to be filed by the 
Company, as the same is not yet due.
For the year ended 31 March 2024
The Company has filed quarterly returns/ statements with the banks in lieu of the sanctioned working capital facilities which are in 
agreement with the books of accounts. Quarterly returns/ statements for the quarter ended 31 March 2025 is yet to be filed by the 
Company, as the same is not yet due.
Note: 48 Additional Disclosures Relating To Investments In 
Subsidiaries And Joint Ventures
Set out below are the list of subsidiaries and a joint venture of the Company as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024. These investments 
are carried at cost less impairment, if any. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business, and the 
proportion of ownership interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights held.
230
231
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
Note: 49 Additional Regulatory Information
(a)	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 ('Code') relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment received 
Indian Parliament approval and Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India and 
subsequently on 13 November 2020 draft rules were published and invited for stakeholders’ suggestions. However, the date on 
which the Code will come into effect has not been notified. The Company will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into 
effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes effective.
(b)	 The Company has no transactions with the companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of 
the Companies Act, 1956.
(c)	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority 
or other lender in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve Bank of India.
(d)	 There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
(e)	 The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
(f)	 There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory period.
(g)	 The Company has complied with the number of layers as prescribed under the Companies Act, read with the Companies (Restriction 
on number of layers) Rules, 2017.
(h)	 The Company has not revalued its Property, plant and equipment (including Right-of-Use Assets) or Intangible assets or both during 
the current or previous year.
(i)	
The Company has raised funds on short term and long term basis from banks and financial institutions, and have applied the same 
for the purpose for which they were obtained.
(j)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) to any other person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the understanding (whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall
	
(i)	
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons/ entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
	
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(k)	 The Company has not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
(i)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated) 
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
(l)	
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous year.
(m)	The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a new requirement for companies under the proviso to Rule 3(1) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules 2021 requiring companies, which uses 
accounting software for maintaining its books of account, shall use only such accounting software which has a feature of recording 
audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an edit log of each change made in the books of account along with the date when 
such changes were made and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
	
The Company has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit 
log) facility and the same have been operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software, except that 
audit trail feature was not enabled at the database level for accounting software to log any direct data changes. Further, there are no 
instance of audit trail feature being tampered with, where such feature is enabled. Furthermore, the audit trail has been preserved 
by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention, where such feature is enabled.
(n)	 Figures for the previous period have been regrouped/ reclassified wherever necessary to conform to current year's classification. The 
impact of such reclassification/ regrouping is not material to these financial statements.
Signature to Note 1 to 49 above.
Note: 49 Additional Regulatory Information (Contd..)
233
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
232
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To 
The Members of 
Tega Industries Limited
Report on the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Tega Industries Limited (‘the Holding 
Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’) and 
its joint venture, as listed in Annexure 1, which comprise 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated 
financial statements, including material accounting policy 
information and other explanatory information.
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate 
financial statements and on the other financial information of 
the subsidiaries and joint venture, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under section 133 
of the Act, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group and its joint venture as at 31 March 2025, and 
their consolidated profit (including other comprehensive 
income), consolidated cash flows and the consolidated 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Key Audit Matter
3.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment and based on the consideration of the reports of 
the other auditors on separate financial statements of the 
subsidiaries and joint venture, were of most significance in 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the 
current period. These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a 
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
4.	
We have determined the matter described below to be the key audit matter to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment Assessment on carrying value of goodwill 
(Refer note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) 
As on 31 March 2025, the Group’s assets include goodwill 
amounting to H 605.04 million pertaining to acquisition of a step 
down subsidiary in Australia in earlier years. The Group carries 
the Goodwill at cost less impairment loss, if any in accordance 
with the requirements of Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ (‘Ind 
AS 36’), Goodwill is allocated to various cash generating units 
(‘CGUs’) which are tested annually for impairment. 
The Group has determined the recoverable value of the 
identified CGUs with the help of external valuation experts 
using discounted cash flow method which requires significant 
management judgement. The key assumptions, underpinning 
management’s assessment of the fair valuation include, but are not 
limited to, projections of future cash flows, growth rates, discount 
rates, estimated future   operating and capital expenditure.
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the following:
 
 
Obtained an understanding of management process for annual 
impairment assessment of goodwill. 
 
 
Evaluated the design and tested operative effectiveness of the 
internal financial controls over such process;
 
 
Assessed 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
accounting 
policy 
adopted by the management in accordance with the 
requirements of Ind AS 36; 
 
 
Evaluated appropriateness of Group’s methodology applied 
in identification of CGUs to which goodwill is allocated 
for monitoring;
 
 
Obtained management’s external valuation expert’s reports 
and assessed the objectivity, experience and competency of 
such management expert;
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Changes to these assumptions could lead to an impairment in 
the carrying value of goodwill. 
The application of significant judgment in this matter required 
substantial involvement of senior personnel on the audit 
engagement including individuals with expertise in valuation. 
Accordingly, assessment of impairment losses to be recognised, 
if any, on the carrying value of goodwill has been considered to 
be a key audit matter for current year’s audit.
 
 
Traced the management projections of cash flow forecasts 
used in the fair valuation to approved business plans;
 
 
Involved an auditor’s valuation expert to validate the 
appropriateness of valuation methodology and assumptions 
used by management’s expert in determining the   recoverable 
values of the CGUs.
 
 
Assessed the assumptions around the key drivers of the cash 
flow forecasts including expected growth rates and terminal 
growth rates used basis our understanding of the business and 
market conditions;
 
 
Evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed by management in 
respect of the key assumptions used in valuation model such as 
discount and growth rates to consider the impact of estimation 
uncertainty on the recoverable amount calculation;
 
 
Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures 
made in the consolidated financial statements, including 
disclosure of significant assumptions and judgements used 
by management, in accordance with the requirement of the 
applicable accounting standards.
Information 
other 
than 
the 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon
5.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible 
for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Annual Report but does 
not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to 
be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or 
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated.
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management 
and 
those 
Charged 
with 
Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
6.	
The 
accompanying 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
have been approved by the Holding Company’s Board of 
Directors. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the 
Act with respect to the preparation and presentation of 
these consolidated  financial statements that give a true and 
fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance including other comprehensive income, 
consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows 
of the Group including its joint venture in accordance with 
the Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in India. The 
Holding Company’s Board of Directors are also responsible 
for ensuring accuracy of records including financial information 
considered necessary for the preparation of consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements. Further, in terms of the provisions of 
the Act the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and its joint venture company covered 
under the Act are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
234
235
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
These financial statements have been used for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the 
Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
7.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group and of its joint venture are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the Group and of its joint venture to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intend 
to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
8.	
Those respective Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the financial reporting process of the companies 
included in the Group and of its joint venture.
Auditor’s 
Responsibilities 
for 
the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
9.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with Standards on Auditing will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis 
of these consolidated financial statements.
10.	
As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Auditing 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control;
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Holding Company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management;
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of Directors’ 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group 
and its joint venture to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group and its joint venture to cease to continue as 
a going concern;
 
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; and
 
 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group and its joint venture, to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of financial 
statements of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements, of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements, which have been 
audited by the other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
11.	
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
12.	
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
13.	
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
14.	
We did not audit the financial statements and other financial 
information of 7 subsidiaries, whose financial statements and 
other financial information reflect total assets of H 7,064.04 
million as at 31 March 2025, total revenues of H 6,847.31 
million and net cash outflows amounting to H 61.30 million for 
the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated 
financial statements. These financial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished 
to us by the management and our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our 
report in terms of sub-section (3) of section 143 of the Act in 
so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, are based solely 
on the reports of the other auditors.
	
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, 
and our report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
below, are not modified in respect of the above matters with 
respect to our reliance on the work done by and the reports 
of the other auditors.
15.	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the 
year ended 31 March 2024 were audited by the predecessor 
auditor, Price Waterhouse & Co Bangalore LLP, who have 
expressed an unmodified opinion on those consolidated 
financial statements vide their audit report dated 23 May 2024.
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements
16.	
As required by section 197(16) of the Act, based on our audit, we 
report that the Holding Company, and 1 subsidiary incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been audited under 
the Act have paid remuneration to their respective directors 
during the year in accordance with the provisions of and limits 
laid down under section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. 
Further, we report that 1 joint venture incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act 
have not paid or provided for any managerial remuneration 
during the year. Accordingly, reporting under section 197(16) of 
the Act is not applicable in respect of such joint venture.
17.	
As required by clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 of Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the 
Central Government of India in terms of section 143(11) of 
the Act based on the consideration of the Order reports 
issued by us of Companies included in the consolidated 
financial statements and covered under the Act we report 
that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks reported 
in the respective Order reports of such Companies.
18.	
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit on 
separate financial statements of the subsidiary and joint venture 
incorporated in India whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit of 
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;
	
b)	
Except for the matters stated in paragraph 18(h)(vi) 
below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our 
opinion, proper books of account as required by law 
relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books.
	
c)	
The consolidated financial statements dealt with by this 
report are in agreement with the relevant books of 
account maintained for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements;
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under section 
133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015;
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary and joint venture and taken on record by 
the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its 
236
237
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
subsidiary and joint venture, respectively, covered under 
the Act, none of the directors of the Holding Company, 
its subsidiary and joint venture, are disqualified as on 
31 March 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of section 164(2) of the Act.
	
f)	
The qualification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith with 
respect to the consolidated financial statements are as 
stated in paragraph 18(b) above on reporting under 
section 143(3)(b) of the Act and paragraph 18(h)(vi) 
below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
	
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of 
the Holding Company, and its subsidiary and joint 
venture covered under the Act, and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in ‘Annexure 2’ wherein we have expressed an 
unmodified opinion; and
	
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose the 
impact of pending litigations on the consolidated 
financial position of the Group and its joint venture 
as detailed in note 45A to the consolidated 
financial statements;
	
	
ii.	
The Holding Company, its subsidiaries and joint 
venture did not have any long-term contracts 
including 
derivative 
contracts 
for 
which 
there were any material foreseeable losses as 
at 31 March 2025.
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company, and its 
subsidiary and joint venture covered under the 
Act, during the year ended 31 March 2025;
	
	
iv.	
a.	
The 
respective 
managements 
of 
the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary and 
joint venture incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to us that, 
to the best of their knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed in note 50 to the consolidated 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or securities premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Holding Company or its subsidiaries 
and joint venture to or in any person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘the 
intermediaries’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that 
the 
intermediary 
shall, 
whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding 
Company, or any such subsidiary, and joint 
venture (‘the Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b.	
The respective managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiary, and joint venture 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under the 
Act have represented to us that, to the best 
of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note 50(k) to the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements, no funds 
have been received by the Holding Company 
or its subsidiaries and joint venture from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (‘the Funding Parties’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Holding Company, or 
any such subsidiary and joint venture shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed 
by us, as considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused 
us to believe that the management 
representations under sub-clauses (a) and 
(b) above contain any material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company 
and its joint venture during the year ended 31 
March 2025 in respect of such dividend declared 
for the previous year is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend. Further, the interim dividend 
declared and paid by the joint venture during the 
year ended 31 March 2025 is in compliance with 
section 123 of the Act.
	
	
	
Also, as stated in note 41(b) to the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements, the Board 
of Directors of the Holding Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 
March 2025 which is subject to the approval of 
the members at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance 
with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies 
to declaration of dividend.
	
	
vi.	
As stated in note 50(I) to the consolidated 
financial statements and based on our examination 
which included test checks, the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary and joint venture, which 
are incorporated in India and whose financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, in 
respect of financial year commencing on 1 April 
2024, have used an accounting software for 
maintaining their books of account which has a 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has been operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software except for instances mentioned below:
	
	
	
a.	
In case of Holding Company and 1 joint 
venture, the feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility was not enabled at the 
database level to log any direct data changes 
for certain accounting software.
	
	
	
b.	
In case of 1 subsidiary company, the feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility has 
not been enabled throughout the year.
	
	
	
	
Further, during the course of our audit we 
did not come across any instance of audit 
trail feature being tampered where such 
feature has been enabled. Furthermore, the 
audit trail has been preserved by the Holding 
Company and such subsidiary and joint 
venture as per the statutory requirements 
for record retention where such feature 
has been enabled.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Anamitra Das
Partner
Place: Gurugram	
Membership No.: 062191
Date: 15 May 2025	
UDIN: 25062191BMMMIP3726
238
239
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
ANNEXURE 1
SN
Name of the Component
A.
Subsidiaries (Direct)
1
Tega Industries Inc.
2
Tega Industries Australia Pty. Ltd
3
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
4
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Technicos Ltda
5
Tega Holdines Pte Limited
6
Tega McNally Minerals Limited (formerly known as McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited)
B.
Subsidiaries (Indirect)
1
Tega Investments South Africa Proprietary Limited
2
Tega Industries Africa Proprietary Limited
3
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
4
Losugen Pty Ltd
5
Tega Industries Chile SpA including its subsidiaries Edoctum S.A. and Tega Industries Peru S.A.C.
6
Tega Industries Ghana Limited (Incorporated on 04 January 2025)
C.
Joint Venture (Direct)
1
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
List of entities included in the Report
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE 2
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements under Clause (i) 
of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) 
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Tega Industries Limited (‘the Holding 
Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’), and its 
joint venture as at and for the year ended 31 March 2025, we 
have audited the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of the Holding Company, its subsidiary 
company and its joint venture company, which are companies 
covered under the Act, as at that date.
Responsibilities Of Management 
And 
Those 
Charged 
With 
Governance For Internal Financial 
Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, 
its subsidiary company and its joint venture company, which 
are companies covered under the Act, are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of the Company’s 
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility For The 
Audit Of The Internal Financial 
Controls With Reference To 
Financial Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements of 
the Holding Company, its subsidiary company and its joint 
venture company, as aforesaid, based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘ICAI’) prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to 
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, and the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements were 
established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements includes obtaining an 
understanding of such internal financial controls, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of the Holding Company, its subsidiary 
company and its joint venture company as aforesaid.
Meaning Of Internal Financial 
Controls With Reference To 
Financial Statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company's internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements include those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
240
241
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the company's assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Inherent 
Limitations 
Of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls 
With Reference To Financial 
Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies 
or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Holding Company, its subsidiary company, 
and its joint venture company, which are companies covered 
under the Act, have in all material respects, adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements and 
such controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 
2025, based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Anamitra Das
Partner
Place: Gurugram	
Membership No.: 062191
Date: 15 May 2025	
UDIN: 25062191BMMMIP3726
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
as at 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 3,658.40 
 3,481.71 
Right-of-Use Assets
3(b)
 1,831.17 
 1,795.99 
Capital work in progress
3(c)
 457.12 
 107.18 
Investment property
4
 36.72 
 34.09 
Goodwill
5
 611.24 
 614.19 
Intangible assets
3(d)
 88.87 
 76.30 
Intangible assets under development
3(e)
 21.72 
 1.86 
Investments accounted for using the equity method
44(c) 
 221.29 
 311.69 
Financial assets
(i)
Other financial assets
6
 46.54 
 60.93 
Income tax assets (net)
7
 63.14 
 78.47 
Deferred tax assets (net)
8
 368.82 
 189.31 
Other non-current assets
9
 20.41 
 13.40 
Total non-current assets
 7,425.44 
 6,765.12 
Current assets
Inventories
10
 4,145.25 
 3,701.48 
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
11
 2,397.45 
 2,479.18 
(ii)
Trade receivables
12(a)
 5,010.47 
 4,472.93 
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
13
 1,142.95 
 863.17 
(iv)	 Other bank balances
14
 68.61 
 3.94 
(v)
Loans
15
 0.57 
 0.87 
(vi)	 Other financial assets
16
 91.13 
 108.99 
Contract assets
12(b)
 - 
 9.31 
Income tax assets (net)
17
 30.55 
 60.37 
Other current assets
18
 639.60 
 436.03 
Total current assets
 13,526.58 
 12,136.27 
Total assets
 20,952.02 
 18,901.39 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
19A
 665.35 
 665.35 
Other equity
19C
 13,301.57 
 11,252.84 
Equity attributable to the owners of the company
 13,966.92 
 11,918.19 
Equity attributable to the owners of the non controlling interest
 0.00^ 
 0.00^ 
Total equity
 13,966.92 
 11,918.19 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
20
 990.65 
 1,162.27 
(ii)
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 497.86 
 496.60 
(iii)	 Other financial liabilities
21
 3.88 
 9.49 
Provisions
22
 0.41 
 0.53 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
23
 62.01 
 53.32 
Total non-current liabilities
 1,554.81 
 1,722.21 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
24
 1,628.64 
 1,269.17 
(ii)
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 179.34 
 152.11 
(iii)	 Trade payables
(a)	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
25
 116.63 
 116.92 
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
25
 2,106.59 
 1,717.02 
(iv)	 Other financial liabilities
26
 196.07 
 610.92 
Provisions
27
 248.12 
 193.41 
Current tax liabilities (net)
28
 307.17 
 187.82 
Other current liabilities
29
 647.73 
 1,013.62 
Total current liabilities
 5,430.29 
 5,260.99 
Total liabilities
 6,985.10 
 6,983.20 
Total equity and liabilities
 20,952.02 
 18,901.39 
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet 	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
consolidated financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
^Amount is below the rounding off norms adopted by the Group
242
243
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue from operations
30
 16,386.51 
 14,927.14 
Other income
31
 431.54 
 222.05 
Total income
 16,818.05 
 15,149.19 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
32
 7,177.15 
 6,959.60 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress
33
 (192.63)
 (504.46)
Employee benefits expense
34
 2,492.07 
 2,198.63 
Finance costs
35
 269.04 
 319.54 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
36
 1,013.32 
 636.82 
Other expenses
37
 3,511.83 
 3,113.65 
Total expenses
 14,270.78 
 12,723.78 
Profit before share of net profit of joint venture accounted for using equity method and tax
 2,547.27 
 2,425.41 
Share of net profit of joint venture accounted for using the equity method
44(c) 
 44.71 
 44.32 
Profit before tax 
 2,591.98 
 2,469.73 
Income tax expense
-	
Current tax
38
 749.43 
 564.06 
-	
Deferred tax 
38
 (158.65)
 (32.90)
Total tax expense
 590.78 
 531.16 
Total Profit for the year (A)
 2,001.20 
 1,938.57 
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
(a)	
Remeasurement (loss) on post employment defined benefit plans
 (18.53)
 (9.07)
	
(b)	 Income tax charge related to above 
 4.80 
 2.38 
	
(c)	
Share of other comprehensive income of joint venture accounted using the equity method
 (0.12)
 (0.04)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
	
(a)	
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
 194.45 
 (382.02)
	
(b)	 Fair value changes of cash flow hedges
 - 
 7.70 
	
(c)	
Income tax related to the above
 - 
 (1.94)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax (B)
 180.60 
 (382.99)
Total comprehensive income for the year (A+B)
 2,181.80 
 1,555.58 
Profit is attributable to:
	
Owners of  Tega Industries Limited
 2,001.20 
 1,938.57 
	
Non- Controlling interests
 0.00^ 
 0.00^ 
 2,001.20 
 1,938.57 
Other Comprehensive income is attributable to:
	
Owners of  Tega Industries Limited
 180.60 
 (382.99)
	
Non- Controlling interests
0.00^
 0.00^ 
 180.60 
 (382.99)
Total Comprehensive income is attributable to:
	
Owners of  Tega Industries Limited
 2,181.80 
 1,555.58 
	
Non- Controlling interests
 0.00^ 
 0.00^ 
 2,181.80 
 1,555.58 
Earnings Per equity share: [Nominal Value Per Share J 10/-]
	
Basic
43
30.08
29.17
	
Diluted
43
30.08
29.09
This is the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
consolidated financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
^Amount is below the rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 March 2025
A. Equity Share Capital
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Amount
As at 1 April 2023
19A
 663.54 
Changes during the year
Exercise of options - proceeds received 
 1.81 
As at 31 March 2024
19A
 665.35 
Changes during the year
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
19A
 665.35 
B. Other Equity
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Reserve and surplus
Other reserves
 Total 
other 
equity 
 Non-
controlling 
interests 
 Total 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Retained 
earning 
 Capital 
Reserve 
 Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
 Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve 
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
Balance as at 1 April 2024
19C
 907.76 
 337.98 
 9,016.64  1,269.83 
 0.23 
 (285.36)
 5.76  11,252.84 
 0.00^  11,252.84 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 2,001.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,001.20 
 0.00^ 
 2,001.20 
Other Comprehensive income [net of tax]
 - 
 - 
 (13.85)
 - 
 - 
 194.45 
 - 
 180.60 
 0.00^ 
 180.60 
Transfer within equity - other adjustments
 - 
 - 
 5.99 
 - 
 (0.23)
 - 
 (5.76)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Dividend Paid
41 (b)
 - 
 - 
 (133.07)
 - 
 - 
 (133.07)
 - 
 (133.07)
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 907.76 
 337.98 10,876.91  1,269.83 
 - 
 (90.91)
 - 13,301.57 
 0.00^ 13,301.57 
244
245
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Reserve and surplus
Other reserves
 Total 
other 
equity 
 Non-
controlling 
interests 
 Total 
Securities 
Premium
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Capital 
Reserve 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve 
Cash 
flow 
Hedge 
reserve 
Balance as at 1 April 2023
19C
 903.79 
 337.98  7,217.70  1,269.83 
 0.42 
 96.66 
 - 
9,826.38 
 0.00^ 
 9,826.38 
Profit for the year
 - 
 -  1,938.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,938.57 
 0.00^ 
 1,938.57 
Other Comprehensive income [net of tax]
 - 
 - 
 (6.73)
 - 
 - 
 (382.02)
 5.76 
(382.99)
 0.00^ 
 (382.99)
Transfers within equity - exercise of options
47
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.19)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Exercise of options - proceeds received
47
 3.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.78 
 - 
 3.78 
Dividend Paid
41 (b)
 - 
 - 
 (132.90)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(132.90)
 - 
(132.90)
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 907.76 
 337.98  9,016.64  1,269.83 
 0.23 
 (285.36)
 5.76 11,252.84 
 0.00^ 11,252.84 
^Amount is below the rounding off norms adopted by the Group
This is the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity	
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
consolidated financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
A.	 Cash Flow from Operating Activities
	
Net profit before tax 
 2,591.98 
 2,469.73 
	
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
 1,013.32 
 636.82 
Finance costs
 257.96 
 299.51 
Interest income 
 (43.27)
 (41.10)
Allowance for expected credit loss (including bad debts and advances written off)
 19.05 
 112.24 
Claims/ liquidating damages 
 16.28 
 (0.07)
Net fair value (gain) on investments classified at FVTPL
 (123.50)
 (148.80)
Net (gain) on sale of investments classified at FVTPL
 (72.18)
 (25.27)
Mark to market (gain) on deriavtive instrument (net)
 57.97 
 30.39 
Derivative Settlement (net)
 (21.74)
 (77.12)
Liabilities/ Provisions no longer required written back
 (55.13)
 - 
(Gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment including other intangible assets (net 
of loss on assets scrapped/ written off)
 0.83 
 (3.89)
Share of profit of joint venture accounted for using the equity method
 (44.71)
 (44.32)
Provision for warranty expenses
 30.18 
 20.67 
Provision for slow moving/ non- moving and obsolete inventory
 100.42 
 42.88 
Other non cash items
 (0.55)
 0.61 
Effect of unrealised exchange differences (net)
 120.33 
 71.95 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 3,847.24 
 3,344.23 
Changes in working capital:
(Increase) in Non Current/ Current financial and other assets
 (735.65)
 (719.05)
(Increase) in inventories
 (455.40)
 (975.16)
(Decrease)/increase in Non Current/ Current financial and other liabilities/ provisions
 (110.96)
 1,291.85 
Cash generated from operations 
 2,545.23 
 2,941.87 
Income taxes paid (net of refunds) 
 (594.93)
 (420.45)
Net cash generated from operating activities 
 1,950.30 
 2,521.42 
B.	 Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Payment for purchase of capital assets
 (1,701.80)
 (554.12)
Proceeds from sale of capital assets
 3.92 
 10.24 
Payment for purchase of investments
 (3,504.10)
 (3,543.90)
Proceeds from sale of investments
 3,781.46 
 3,131.86 
Deposits with bank placed
 (74.48)
 (164.96)
Deposits with bank matured
 10.02 
 186.94 
Interest received
 34.83 
 16.06 
Dividend received from joint venture
 135.00 
 11.25 
Net cash (used in) investing activities  
 (1,315.15)
 (906.63)
246
247
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
for the year ended 31 March 2025
(All amount in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
C	 Cash flow from Financing Activities
Proceeds from issue of equity shares
 - 
 5.59 
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (199.03)
 (268.35)
Proceeds from/ (repayment of) short term borrowings (net)
 372.80 
 (400.31)
Derivative settlement (net)
 21.74 
 77.12 
Finance cost paid on borrowings
 (198.94)
 (238.09)
Finance cost paid on account of lease liabilities 
 (60.27)
 (66.28)
Repayment of lease liabilities 
 (183.42)
 (129.12)
Dividend Paid to equity shareholders
 (133.07)
 (132.90)
Net cash (used in) financing activities  
 (380.19)
 (1,152.34)
Net Increase in cash and cash equivalents  
 254.96 
 462.45 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (refer note 13)
 863.17 
 457.21 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents
 24.82 
 (56.49)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (refer note 13)
 1,142.95 
 863.17 
Notes:
1.	
The above Consolidated Statement of Cash flows has been prepared under the Indirect Method as set out in Ind AS - 7 "Statement 
of Cash Flows".
2.	
During the year non-cash transaction from Investing and Financing Activities with respect to acquisition of Right-of-Use Assets with 
corresponding adjustments to Lease liabilities is H 173.19 Mn (31 March 2024: H 359.97 Mn).
3.	
Refer note 41(c) for reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows	
The accompanying notes are the integral part of this
referred to in our report of even date.	
consolidated financial statements
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
1.	 Group Information
	
Tega Industries Limited ('the holding company') and its 
subsidiaries (together the Group) incorporated in India with 
its registered office at Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, Office No. 
807, 8th Floor, Block DP-5, Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, 
Kolkata – 700 091 West Bengal, India and is engaged in the 
business of manufacturing and distribution of specialized 
‘critical to operate’ and recurring consumable products for 
the global mineral beneficiation, mining, bulk solids handling 
industry. The group is also engaged in manufacturing and 
marketing of crushing, screening, grinding, material handling 
and mineral processing equipments with integrated customer 
support and after sales service.
	
The Holding Company's equity shares are listed on the BSE 
Limited, National Stock Exchnage of India Limited (NSE).
	
The financial statements as at 31 March 2025 present the 
financial position of the Group.
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 March 2025 were approved and authorised for issue with 
the resolution of the Holding Company's Board of Directors 
on 15 May 2025.
2.	 Summary 
Of 
Material 
Accounting Policies
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements. These policies have been consistently applied to 
all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1	Basis Of Preparation
	
(i)	 Compliance with Ind AS
	
	
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared, in all material aspects with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act") [Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendement Rules, 
2016] and other relevant provisions of the act.
	
(ii)	Historical Cost Convention
	
	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared as going concern on accrual basis and under 
the historical cost convention except for the following 
assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair 
value or revalued amount:
	
	
-	
Certain financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value (refer accounting policy regarding 
financial instruments);
	
	
-	
defined benefit plans – plan assets measured at 
fair value; and
	
	
-	
share-based payments.
	
(iii)	Current 
versus 
Non 
Current 
Classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or 
non-current as per the Group's operating cycle and other 
criteria set out in the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
and Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the 
nature of products and the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and 
cash equivalents, the Group has ascertained its operating 
cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current – non-
current classification of assets and liabilities.
2.2	New And Amended Standards 
Adopted By The Group
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs notified new standards or 
amendment to existing standards under Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time.
	
The Group applied following amendments for the first-time 
during the current year which are effective from 1 April 2024:
	
Amendments to Ind AS 116-Lease 
liability in a sale and leaseback
	
The amendments require an entity to recognise lease liability 
including variable lease payments which are not linked to 
index or a rate in a way it does not result into gain on Right 
of Use asset it retains.
	
Notification of Ind AS 117
	
MCA notified Ind AS 117, a comprehensive standard 
that prescribe, recognition, measurement and disclosure 
requirements, to avoid diversities in practice for accounting 
insurance contracts and it applies to all companies i.e., to all 
"insurance contracts" regardless of the issuer. However, Ind 
AS 117 is not applicable to the entities which are insurance 
companies registered with IRDAI.
	
The Group has reviewed the new pronouncements and based 
on its evaluation has determined that these amendments 
do not have a significant impact on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
248
249
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
2.3	Principles Of Consolidation And 
Equity Accounting
	
(i)	 Subsidiaries
	
	
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has 
control. The Group controls an entity when the Group 
is exposed to, or has right to, variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power to direct the relevant 
activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
	
	
The acquisition method of accounting is used to 
account for business combinations by the Group.
	
	
The Group combines the financial statements of the 
parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding together like 
items of assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses. 
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised 
gains on transactions between Group companies are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless 
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
transferred asset. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.
	
	
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of 
subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and consolidated balance 
sheet respectively.
	
(ii)	Interest in Joint Ventures accounted 
for using equity method.
	
	
Under Ind AS 111, Joint Arrangements, investments 
in joint arrangements are classified as either joint 
operations or joint ventures. The classification depends 
on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, 
rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. 
The group only has investment in joint venture.
	
	
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the 
equity method, after initially being recognised at cost in 
the consolidated balance sheet.
	
	
Under the equity method of accounting, the investment 
is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter 
to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition 
profits or losses of the investee in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss, and the Group’s share of 
other comprehensive income of the investee in other 
comprehensive income. Dividend received or receivable 
from joint venture is recognised as a reduction in the 
carrying amount of investment.
	
	
When the Group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted 
investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, 
including any other unsecured long term receivables, 
the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it 
has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the other entity.
	
	
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group 
and its joint venture are eliminated to the extent of 
the Group’s interest in joint venture. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Accounting policies of equity accounted investee are 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with 
the policies adopted by the Group.
	
	
The carrying amount of equity accounted investments 
are tested for impairment in accordance with the policy 
described in note 2.6 below.
	
(iii)	Changes in ownership interests
	
	
When the group ceases to consolidate or equity 
account for an investment because of a loss of control, 
joint control or significant influence, any retained 
interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value 
with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit 
or loss. This fair value becomes the initial carrying 
amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting 
for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture 
or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect 
of that entity are accounted for as if the group had 
directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This 
may mean that amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
	
	
If the ownership interest in a joint venture or an associate 
is reduced but joint control or significant influence is 
retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income 
are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
2.4	Property plant and equipment
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items 
of property plant and equipment are stated at historical 
cost net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Historical cost includes expenditure 
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount 
or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is derecognised when 
replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
Depreciation
	
i)	
Depreciation is calculated using a straight line method 
to allocate the cost of the assets, net of their residual 
values, over their estimated useful lives as specified 
by Schedule II to the Act, wherever applicable. The 
estimated useful lives of the property, plant and 
equipment have been presented below:
Class of Assets
Estimated useful 
life (in years)
Buildings
30 - 60 years
Plant and Equipment*
3 - 15 years
Wear Parts (at customer site)*
1- 2 years
Furniture and Fixtures
10 years
Vehicles
5-10 years
Office equipment
5 years
Electrical installation
10 years
	
	
*For these class of assets, based on internal assessment and independent 
technical evaluation carried out by external valuers, the Group believes 
that the useful lives as given above best represent the year over which 
Group expects to use these assets. Hence, the useful lives for these 
assets are different from the useful lives as prescribed under Part C of 
Schedule II to the Act.
	
ii)	
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the 
shorter of their useful life or the lease term, unless the 
entity expects to use the assets beyond the lease term.
	
	
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed 
by the management, and adjusted if appropriate, at the 
end of each reporting period.
2.5	Intangible assets
	
(i)	
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in 
intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised but it is 
tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might 
be impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses before if any. Gains and Losses on 
the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of 
goodwill relating to the entity sold.
	
	
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the 
purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to 
those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit from the business 
combination in which the goodwill arose. The units or 
groups of units are identified at the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
	
(ii)	
Intangible Assets (Computer Software) are stated at 
cost of acquisition net of accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. Costs associated 
with maintaining software programmes are recognised 
as an expense as incurred.
	
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
	
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
included in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Amortisation
	
	
The group amortises computer software and brand 
using the straight line method over the following periods:
Class of assets
Estimated useful 
life (in years)
Software
3 Years
Brand
5 Years
	
	
Research 
and 
Development 
Expenditure
	
	
Research expenditure and development expenditure that 
do not meet the criterias mentioned below are recognised 
as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously 
recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in 
a subsequent period. Property, plant and equipment used 
in Research and Development are capitalised.
250
251
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
	
Development costs are recognised as intangible assets 
when the following criteria are met:
	
	
1.	
it is technically feasible to complete the intangible 
asset so that it will be available for use
	
	
2.	
management intends to complete the intangible 
asset and use or sell it
	
	
3.	
there is an ability to use or sell the intangible asset
	
	
4.	
it can be demonstrated how the intangible asset 
will generate probable future economic benefits
	
	
5.	
adequate technical, financial and other resources 
to complete the development and to use or sell 
the intangible asset are available, and
	
	
6.	
the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset 
during its development can be reliably measured.
	
	
Capitalised development costs are recorded as 
intangible assets and amortised from the point at which 
the asset is available for use.
2.6	Impairment
	
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
values of its property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that the 
carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable through 
continuing use. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is reviewed in order to determine the 
extent of impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
	
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to 
sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have 
not been adjusted. An impairment loss is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss as and when the 
carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
	
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
value of the asset (or cash generating unit) is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount so that the 
increased carrying value does not exceed the carrying value 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss 
been recognised for the asset (or cash generating unit) in 
prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss immediately.
2.7	Investment Properties
	
Property that is held for long term rental yields or for capital 
appreciation or both, and is not occupied by the group, is 
classified as Investment property. Investment property is 
measured initially at its cost, including related transaction 
costs and where applicable borrowing costs. Subsequent 
expenditure is capitalised to the assets carrying amount only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated 
with the expenditure will flow to the group and the cost of 
the item can be measured reliably. All repair and maintenance 
cost are expensed when incurred. When part of Investment 
property is replaced, the carrying amount of the replaced 
part is derecognised.
	
On transition to Ind AS, the group has elected to continue 
with the carrying value of its investment properties measured 
at the previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the 
deemed cost of investment properties.
2.8	Business Combinations
	
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account 
for all business combinations, regardless of whether equity 
instruments or other assets are acquired. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises of
 
 
fair values of the assets transferred
 
 
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the 
acquired business
 
 
equity interests issued by the group
 
 
fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement.
	
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited 
exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date. The group recognises any non-controlling 
interest in the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net 
identifiable assets.
	
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
The excess of the:
 
 
consideration transferred
 
 
amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquired entity
 
 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity 
interest in the acquired entity
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. If those amounts are less than the fair 
value of the net identifiable assets of the business acquired, 
the difference is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity as capital reserve provided there 
is clear evidence of the underlying reasons for classifying the 
business combination as a bargain purchase. In other cases, 
the bargain purchase gain is recognised directly in equity as 
capital reserve.
	
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is 
deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to 
their present value as at the date of exchange. The discount 
rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing rate, being 
the rate at which a similar borrowing could be obtained 
from an independent financier under comparable terms 
and conditions.
	
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a 
financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability are 
subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair 
value recognised in profit or loss.
	
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the 
acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously 
held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair 
value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses arising from 
such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss or 
other comprehensive income, as appropriate.
2.9	Financial Instruments
	
The financial assets are classified in the following categories:
	
1.	
financial assets measured at amortised cost,
	
2.	
financial assets measured at fair value through profit 
and loss (FVTPL), and
	
3.	
financial assets measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI).
	
The classification of financial assets depends on the Group’s 
business model for managing financial assets and the 
contractual terms of the cash flow. For assets measured at 
fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit 
or loss or other comprehensive income. For investments 
in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will 
depend on whether the group has made an irrevocable 
election at the time of initial recognition to account for the 
equity investment at FVOCI.
	
The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only 
when its business model for managing those assets changes.
	
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are 
recognised on trade-date, being the date on which the group 
commits to purchase or sale the financial asset.
	
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial 
asset (excluding trade receivables which do not contain a 
significant financing component) at its fair value plus, in the 
case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or 
loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial 
assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed 
in profit or loss.
	
Financial assets measured at amortised 
cost
	
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows 
where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal 
and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in Other Income using 
the effective interest rate method. After initial recognition, 
such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss 
arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or 
loss and presented in other gains/(losses). Impairment losses 
are presented as a separate line item in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
Investment in debt instruments
	
Financial assets measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI)
	
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income if these financial assets are held 
within a business model whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets 
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, 
except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, 
interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses 
which are recognised in profit and loss. When the financial 
asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss 
and recognised in other gains/(losses). Interest income from 
these financial assets is included in other income using the 
effective interest rate method. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses are presented in other gains/(losses) and impairment 
expenses are presented as separate line item in statement of 
profit and loss.
252
253
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
Financial assets measured at fair value 
through profit and loss (FVTPL)
	
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or 
FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit and loss. 
A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit and loss is recognised in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss in the period 
in which it arises. Interest income from these financial assets 
is included in other income. Investments in units of mutual 
funds are subsequently measured at FVTPL and the changes 
in fair value are recognised in Consolidated statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
De-recognition of financial asset
	
A financial asset is derecognised only 
when
 
 
the Group has transferred the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial asset or
 
 
retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of 
the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation 
to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients.
	
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Company 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In such cases, 
the financial asset is derecognised. Where the entity has not 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset, the financial asset is not derecognised.
	
Where the entity has neither transferred a financial asset 
nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset, the financial asset is derecognised if 
the Company has not retained control of the financial asset. 
Where the Company retains control of the financial asset, 
the asset is continued to be recognised to the extent of 
continuing involvement in the financial asset.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected 
credit losses associated with its financial assets carried at 
amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments. The impairment 
methodology applied depends on whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk.
	
For trade receivables only, the group applies the simplified 
approach required by Ind AS 109, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of 
the receivables.
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash 
flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, 
demand deposits with banks, other short term highly liquid 
investments, if any, with original maturities of three months 
or less that are readily convertible to known amount of cash 
and subject to an insignificant change in value.
	
Trade receivables
	
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for 
goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business and reflects group’s unconditional right to 
consideration (that is, payment is due only on the passage 
of time). Trade receivables are recognised initially at the 
transaction price as they do not contain significant financing 
components. The Group holds the trade receivables with 
the objective of collecting the contractual cash flows and 
therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less loss allowance.
	
Financial Liabilities
	
Borrowings
	
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) 
and the redemption amount is recognised in profit or loss 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are 
recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it 
is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. 
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled 
or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a 
financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to 
another party and the consideration paid, including any non-
cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in 
profit or loss as other gains/(losses).
	
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the 
Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the 
liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period. 
Where there is a breach of a material provision of a long-
term loan arrangement on or before the end of the reporting 
period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on 
demand on the reporting date, the entity does not classify 
the liability as current, if the lender agreed, after the reporting 
period and before the approval of the financial statements for 
issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of the breach.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
Trade and other payables
	
Trade and other payables represent liabilities for goods 
and services provided to the group prior to the end of the 
financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are unsecured 
and are usually paid within 30-90 days of recognition. Trade 
and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognised initially at their fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
	
De-recognition of financial liabilities
	
A financial liability (or a part of financial liability) is de-
recognised from Group’s Consolidated Balance Sheet 
when obligation specified in the contract is discharged or 
cancelled or expired.
	
Derivative Instruments
	
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes 
and not as speculative investments. The Group uses certain 
derivative financial instruments to reduce business risks 
which arise from its exposure to foreign exchange and 
interest rate fluctuations. The instruments are confined 
principally to forward foreign exchange contracts, interest 
rate swaps and options. The derivative contracts to hedge 
risks are not designated as hedges .
	
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting 
period. Net mark to market gains/ losses on derivatives 
taken by the Company are recorded in other income/ 
expenses respectively.
2.10 Offsetting Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is 
reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet where there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally 
enforceable right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of business 
and in event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the 
Group or the counterparty.
2.11	
Government Grants
	
(i)	
Grants from the government are recognised at their 
fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received and the Group will comply 
with all attached conditions.
	
(ii)	
Government grants relating to income are deferred 
and recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss over the period necessary to match them with 
the costs that they are intended to compensate and 
presented within other operating revenue.
2.12 Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost of raw materials and traded goods comprises cost 
of purchases. Cost of work-in-progress and finished goods 
comprises direct materials, direct labours and an appropriate 
proportion of variable and fixed overhead expenditure, 
the latter being allocated on the basis of normal operating 
capacity. Cost of inventories also include all other costs 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Costs are assigned to individual items of 
inventory on the basis of weighted-average cost method. Net 
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less the estimated costs of completion 
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
2.13 Revenue Recognition
	
Revenue shall be recognised to depict the transfer of 
promised goods or services to customers in an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
	
Sales of goods
	
Sales are recognised when control of the products has 
been transferred to the buyer, being when the products are 
dispatched/ delivered to the customer depending on the 
contract terms. This occurs when the products have been 
shipped or delivered to the specific location as the case 
may be, the risk of loss has been transferred, and either the 
customer has accepted the products in accordance with the 
sales contract, or the Group has objective evidence that all 
criteria for acceptance have been satisfied. Revenue from 
contract with customers is primarily recorded at a point in 
time. In few contracts the Group’s performance does not 
create an asset with alternative use to the group and the group 
has concluded that it has an enforceable right to payment for 
performance completed to date. In the said cases, the group 
transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, 
satisfies a performance obligation and recognises revenue over 
time. The group uses the input method to recognise revenue.
	
The group has determined that the input method is the 
best method for measuring progress for these contracts 
because there is a direct relationship between the costs 
incurred by the Group and the transfer of goods and services 
to the customer.
254
255
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
No element of financing is deemed present as the sales are 
generally made with a credit term upto 180 days which is 
consistent with market practice.
	
Revenue is recognised based on the 
price specified in the contract.
	
Some contracts include multiple deliverables, such as sale of 
product and certain related services. However, the services 
are simple, does not include an integration service and could 
be performed by another party. It is therefore accounted for 
as a separate performance obligation. Where the contracts 
include multiple performance obligations, the transaction 
price will be allocated to each performance obligation based 
on the stand-alone selling prices. Where these are not directly 
observable, they are estimated based on the expected cost 
plus margin. If contracts include the installation of product, 
revenue for the product is recognized at a point in time when 
the product is delivered, the legal title has passed and the 
customer has accepted the product.
	
A receivable is recognised when the goods are dispatched 
or delivered, depending on the contract terms, as this is the 
point in time that the consideration is unconditional because 
only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.
	
A contract asset is recognised in respect of those 
performance obligations where the control of the goods 
has been transferred to the buyer, and only delivery of the 
goods is pending. In these cases the consideration is due 
after the shipping obligation is complete, accordingly these 
are classified as contract assets as the consideration is 
conditional on something other than the passage of time.
	
The group does not have any contracts where the period 
between the transfer of the promised goods or services to 
the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one 
year. As a consequence, the Group does not adjust any of the 
transaction prices for the time value of money.
	
The group generally provides for warranties which are 
assurance-type warranties under Ind AS 115, and are 
accounted for under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
2.14	 Other Income
	
Interest
	
Interest income from financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss is disclosed as interest income within other 
income. Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost 
and financial assets at FVOCI is calculated using the effective 
interest method is recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss as part of other income.
	
Interest income is calculated by applying the effective interest 
rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset except 
for financial assets that subsequently become credit-impaired. 
For credit-impaired financial assets the effective interest rate 
is applied to the net carrying amount of the financial asset 
(after deduction of the loss allowance). 
	
Dividend
	
Dividends are received from financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss and at FVOCI. Dividends are 
recognised as other income in profit or loss when the right 
to receive payment is established. This applies even if they are 
paid out of pre-acquisition profits, unless the dividend clearly 
represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment.
2.15	 Borrowing Costs
	
Borrowing costs include interest, other costs incurred in 
connection with borrowing and exchange differences arising 
from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they 
are regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost. General 
and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, 
are capitalised during the period of time that is required to 
complete and prepare the assets for its intended use or sale. 
Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of 
specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying 
assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for 
capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period in which they are incurred.
2.16 Foreign Currencies
	
Functional and presentation currency
	
Items included in the financial statements are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). 
These consolidated financial statements of the Group 
are presented in Indian rupees (H), which is the functional 
currency of the parent and the presentation currency for the 
financial statements.
	
Transaction and balances
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the 
functional currency at exchange rates prevailing on the date 
of the transaction.
	
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions are generally recognised in 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
Monetary assets and liabilities related to such foreign 
currency transactions at the end of the year are translated 
at year end exchange rates and are generally recognised in 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary 
assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign 
currency and measured at fair value are translated at the 
exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair value 
was determined. Non-monetary assets and non-monetary 
liabilities denominated in a foreign currency and measured at 
historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevalent 
at the date of transaction.
	
Foreign Operations
	
The result and financial position of foreign operations 
(none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary 
economy) that have a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into the presentation 
currency as follows:
	
1.	
Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at 
the date of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
	
2.	
Income and expenses are translated at average exchange 
rates (unless this is not a reasonable approximation 
of cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses 
are translated at the dates of the transactions), and
	
3.	
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in 
Other Comprehensive Income.
	
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the 
translation of any net investment in foreign entities, are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
	
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign operation and translated at the exchange rate in 
effect at the balance sheet date.
2.17	 Employee Benefits
	
a)	 Short-term Employee Benefits:
	
	
Short-term Employee Benefits (i.e. benefits payable 
within one year) are recognised in the period in which 
employee services are rendered.
	
b)	 Defined contribution plans
	
	
Provident Fund
	
	
This is a defined contribution plan for certain 
employees and contributions are remitted to Provident 
Fund authorities in accordance with relevant statute 
and charged to the profit or loss in the period in which 
the related employee services are rendered. The group 
has no further obligations for future Provident Fund 
benefits other than its monthly contributions.
	
	
Superannuation Fund
	
	
This is a defined contribution plan. The Company 
contributes a certain percentage of the eligible salary 
for employees covered under the scheme towards 
superannuation fund administered by the Trustees. 
The Company has no further obligations for future 
superannuation benefits other than its contributions and 
recognizes such contributions as expense in the period 
in which the related employee services are rendered.
	
c)	 Defined benefit plans
	
	
Gratuity
	
	
For defined benefit retirement schemes the cost of 
providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit 
Credit Method, with actuarial valuation being carried 
out at each balance sheet date. Re-measurement gains 
and losses of the net defined benefit liability/ (asset) 
are recognised immediately in other comprehensive 
income. The service cost and net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability/ (asset) is treated as a net 
expense within employment costs.
	
	
Past service cost is recognised as an expense when the 
plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when any 
related restructuring costs or termination benefits are 
recognised, whichever is earlier.
	
	
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet represents the present 
value of the defined-benefit obligation as reduced by 
the fair value plan assets.
	
	
Provident Fund
	
	
With respect to one of the subsidiaries, certain 
employees of the group receive provident fund benefits, 
which are administered by the independent Provident 
Fund Trust. Aggregate contributions along with interest 
thereon are paid at retirement, death, incapacitation or 
termination of employment. Both the employees and 
the group make monthly contributions at specified 
percentage of the employees’ salary to such Provident 
Fund Trust. The group has an obligation to fund any 
shortfall in return on plan assets over the interest rates 
prescribed by the authorities from time to time. In view 
of the group’s obligation to meet the shortfall, there is 
a defined benefit plan. Actuarial valuation of the group’s 
256
257
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
liabilty under such scheme is carried out under the 
Projected Unit Credit method at the year end and the 
charge/ gain, if any, is recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
d)	 Other 
Long-Term 
Employee 
Benefits:
	
	
Compensated Absences
	
	
Accumulated compensated absences which 
are 
expected to be availed or encashed within twelve 
months from the period end are treated as short 
term employee benefits. The obligation towards 
the same is measured at the expected cost of 
accumulating compensated absences as the additional 
amount expected to be paid as a result of the unused 
entitlements as at the period end.
	
	
Accumulated compensated absences which 
are 
expected to be availed or encashed beyond twelve 
months from the period end are treated as other 
long term employee benefits. The Group’s liability is 
actuarially determined (using the Projected Unit Credit 
method) at the end period. Actuarial loss/ gains are 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss in the period in which they arise.
	
e)	 Share Based Payments
	
	
Share-based compensation benefits are provided to 
employees via the Tega Industries Limited Employee 
Stock 
Option 
Scheme 
namely 
ESOP 
Scheme 
2011. Employees of the holding company receive 
remuneration in the form of share-based payments, 
whereby employees render services as consideration 
for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
	
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by 
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using 
an appropriate valuation model. That cost is recognised, 
together with a corresponding increase in Employee 
Stock Options Outstanding Account in equity, over 
the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled, in Employee Benefit Expense. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
Service and non-market performance conditions are 
not taken into account when determining the grant date 
fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions 
being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions 
are reflected within the grant date fair value. The 
dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as 
additional share dilution in the computation of diluted 
earnings per share.
2.18 Current and Deferred Tax
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period’s taxable income based on the 
applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by 
changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to 
temporary differences and to unused tax losses.
	
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis 
of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end 
of the reporting period in the countries where the Parent 
Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable 
income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
	
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in 
the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred 
tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is also not 
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction other than a business combination 
that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting 
profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). Deferred income tax 
is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting 
period and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available to 
utilise those temporary differences and losses.
	
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of 
investments in subsidiaries, branches and interest in joint 
arrangements where the Group is able to control the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable 
that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
	
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of 
investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and 
interest in joint arrangements where it is not probable 
that the differences will reverse in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will not be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and 
liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the 
same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities 
are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to 
offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this 
case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively.
2.19	 Provision 
and 
Contingent 
Liabilities
	
The Group recognises a provision where there is a present 
obligation as a result of a past event that probably requires 
an outflow of resources and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the amount of the obligation. However, provisions are not 
recognised for future operating losses.
	
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the 
likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. 
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow 
with respect to any one item included in the same class of 
obligations may be small.
	
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
present obligation at the end of the reporting period. The 
discount rate used to determine the present value is a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. 
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is 
recognised as interest expense.
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there 
is a possible obligation or a present obligation that may, but 
probably will not, require an outflow of resources or there is 
a present obligation, reliable estimate of the amount of which 
cannot be made. Where there is a possible obligation or a 
present obligation and the likelihood of outflow of resources 
is remote, no provision or disclosure for contingent 
liability is made.
	
Provision for warranty
	
The estimated liability for warranty is recorded when 
products are sold. These estimates are established using 
historical information on the nature, frequency and average 
cost of obligations and management estimates regarding 
possible future incidence based on corrective actions on 
product failure.
2.20	 Non-Current 
Assets 
(or 
Disposal Groups) Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations
	
A discontinued operation is a component of the entity that 
has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical 
area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to 
dispose of such a line of business or area of operations, or 
is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The 
results of discontinued operations are presented separately 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets 
of a disposal Group classified as held for sale are presented 
separately from the other assets in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet. The liabilities of a disposal Group classified as held 
for sale are presented separately from other liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
	
Non-current assets (or disposal Groups) are classified 
as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax 
assets, assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets 
and contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are 
specifically exempt from this requirement.
2.21 Earnings Per Share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net profit or 
loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during 
the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Group’s 
earnings per share is the net profit or loss for the period. 
The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period and for all periods presented is adjusted 
for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of 
potential equity shares, if any, that have changed the number 
258
259
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change 
in resources. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings 
per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of 
shares outstanding during the period are adjusted for the 
effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
2.22	 Segment Reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with 
the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision 
maker. The executive committee of the parent assesses the 
financial performance and the position of the Group and they 
are the chief operating decision maker of the Group.
2.23 Rounding Off
	
All amounts in the financial statement have been rounded 
off to the nearest million with two decimal places as 
per the requirement of Schedule III to the Act, unless 
otherwise indicated.
2.24 Exceptional Item
	
Exceptional item is an item of income or expense within the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss, which is of such 
size, nature and incidence that its disclosure is relevant to 
explain the performance of the Group for the period. The 
nature and amount of such item is disclosed separately in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
2.25 Leases
	
The Group as lessee
	
The Group accounts for each lease component within the 
contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of 
the contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to 
each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone 
price of the lease component and the aggregate stand-alone 
price of the non-lease components. The Group recognises 
right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying 
asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. 
The cost of the right of-use asset measured at inception 
comprises of the amount of initial measurement of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease incentive received, 
any initial direct costs and restoration costs.
	
Certain lease arrangements include options to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. 
The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities include these 
options when it is reasonably certain that such options 
would be exercised.
	
The right-of-use assets is subsequently measured at cost 
less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment 
losses, if any and adjusted for any re-measurement of the 
lease liability. The right-of-use assets is depreciated using the 
straight-line method from the commencement date over the 
shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset.
	
Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever 
there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not 
be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognized in the 
Statement of profit and loss.
	
Lease liability is measured at the present value of the 
following lease payments.
 
 
fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), 
less any lease incentives receivable
 
 
variable lease payment that are based on an index or a 
rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date
 
 
amounts expected to be payable by the Company 
under residual value guarantees
 
 
the exercise price of a purchase option if the Company 
is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and
 
 
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the 
lease term reflects the Company exercising that option.
	
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain 
extension options are also included in the measurement 
of the liability.
	
The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined. 
If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group uses 
incremental borrowing rate.
	
To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company:
 
 
where possible, uses recent third-party financing 
received by the individual lessee as a starting point, 
adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions since 
third party financing was received
 
 
uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free 
interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held by 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
Value Ind AS Retail Limited, which does not have recent 
third party financing
 
 
makes adjustments specific to the lease, e.g. term, 
country, currency and security
	
If a readily observable amortising loan rate is available to 
the individual lessee (through recent financing or market 
data) which has a similar payment profile to the lease, then 
the Company entities use that rate as a starting point to 
determine the incremental borrowing rate.
	
The Company is exposed to potential future increases in 
variable lease payments based on an index or rate, which 
are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. 
When adjustments to lease payments based on an index or 
rate take effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted 
against the right-of-use asset.
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance 
cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease 
period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
	
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are recognised 
in profit or loss in the period in which the condition that 
triggers those payments occurs.
	
The lease liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing 
the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, 
reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments 
made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any 
reassessment or lease modifications. The Group recognizes 
the amount of the re-measurement of lease liability as an 
adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Where the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero and 
there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease 
liability, the Group recognizes any remaining amount of the re-
measurement in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
Payment made towards leases for which non-cancellableterm 
is 12 months or lesser (short-term leases) and low value 
leases are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss as 
rental expenses over the tenor of such leases.
	
Variable lease payments not included in the measurement 
of the lease liabilities are expensed to the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss in the period in which the events 
or conditions which trigger those payments occur.
2A	Critical 
Estimates 
and 
Judgements
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
requires the use of accounting estimates which, by 
definition, will seldom equal the actual results. Management 
also needs to exercise judgement in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies.
	
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items 
which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to 
estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than 
those originally assessed.
(i)	Estimation of Defined Benefit 
Obligation
	
Refer note 34.1 for details of critical estimates in computation 
of defined benefit obligation.
(ii)	Impairment of Goodwill
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least on annual basis 
or more frequently when events or change in circumstances 
indicate that it might be impaired. The recoverable amount 
of the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) is determined based on 
value in use calculations which require the use of assumptions. 
The calculations use cash flow projection based on financial 
budgets approved by management covering a five year period. 
The Group uses various assumptions inter-alia growth in 
the revenue, earnings before Interest, tax depreciation and 
260
261
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
amortisation (EBITDA), long term growth rates, discount 
rates to reflect the risk involved.
(iii) Deferred Taxes
	
The Group reviews the carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets at the end of the each reporting period. The policy 
has been detailed in note 2.18 and judgements related to 
deferred taxes is set out in note 38.
(iv)	
Impairment Of Property, Plant 
And Equipment
	
The Company estimates the value in use of the cash generating 
unit (CGU) based on future cash flows after considering current 
economic conditions and trends, estimated future operating 
results and growth rates and anticipated future economic and 
regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are developed 
using internal forecasts. The cash flows are discounted using a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. 
Further details of the Company’s impairment review and key 
assumptions are set out in note 3.
(V) Useful Lives Of Property, Plant And 
Equipment And Intangible Assets
	
The Company reviews the useful life of property, plant 
and equipment and intangible assets at the end of each 
reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation and amortisation expense in future periods. The 
policy has been detailed in note 2.4.
(Vi) Fair Value Measurements Of 
Financial Instruments
	
This includes financial assets and liabilities, measured using 
inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for 
assets and liabiltiy, either directly as prices or indirectly 
derived from prices. This majorly includes derivative 
contracts. Refer note 39.
(vii) Expected Credit Loss For Trade 
Receivables
	
Refer note 2.9 and 12 for details of critical estimates in 
expected credit loss for financial instruments carried at 
amortised cost.
(viii)	 Critical 
Judgement 
In 
Determining The Lease Term
	
The Group determines the lease term on the basis of 
termination and renewal options in various lease contracts 
where the Group applies its judgements. Refer note 
3(b) for details.
	
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. They are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that may have a financial impact 
on the Group and that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Gross Block 
 Depreciation 
 Net Block 
As at 
1 April 
2024 
Additions 
during 
the year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
Exchange 
Differences 
As at 
31 March 
2025 
 As at 
1 April 
2024 
For the 
year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
 Exchange 
Differences 
 As at 
31 March 
2025 
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
31 March 
2024
Tangible assets
(a)	 Land
 462.52 
 208.25 
 - 
 30.36 
 701.13 
 2.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.62 
 698.51 
 459.90 
(b)	 Buildings 
2,443.77 
 32.22 
 0.01 
 8.85 
 2,484.83  1,271.98 
 68.22 
 - 
 3.64 
 1,343.84 
 1,140.99 
 1,171.79 
(c)	 Plant and equipment 
(including wear parts)*
5,163.06 
600.93 
 82.24 
 108.83 
 5,790.58  3,492.81 
 681.39 
 78.13 
 52.85 
 4,148.92 
 1,641.66 
 1,670.25 
(d)	 Furniture and fixtures
 232.02 
 11.01 
 14.06 
 9.75 
 238.72 
 163.05 
 16.91 
 12.88 
 4.75 
 171.83 
 66.89 
 68.97 
(e)	 Vehicles
 110.04 
 7.81 
 8.60 
 0.27 
 109.52 
 56.99 
 16.01 
 7.48 
 0.25 
 65.77 
 43.75 
 53.05 
(f)	 Office equipment
 121.18 
 19.10 
 14.93 
 2.93 
 128.28 
 72.55 
 11.51 
 16.59 
 2.31 
 69.78 
 58.50 
 48.63 
(g)	 Electrical installation 
 32.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.31 
 23.18 
 1.03 
 - 
 - 
 24.21 
 8.10 
 9.12 
Total 
 8,564.89 
 879.32 
 119.84 
 160.99  9,485.37 5,083.18 
795.07 
 115.08 
 63.80  5,826.97  3,658.40  3,481.71 
Particulars
 Gross Block 
 Depreciation 
 Net Block 
As at 
 1 April 
2023 
Additions 
during 
the year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
Exchange 
Differences 
As at 
31 March 
2024
 As at 
1 April 
2023 
For the 
year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
 Exchange 
Differences 
 As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2023
Tangible assets
(a)	 Land
 447.73 
 68.13 
 0.03 
 (53.31)
 462.52 
 2.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.62 
 459.90 
 445.11 
(b)	 Buildings 
 2,429.09 
 21.37 
 0.20 
 (6.49)
 2,443.77 
 1,209.07 
 65.38 
 0.13 
 (2.34)
 1,271.98 
 1,171.79 
 1,220.02 
(c)	 Plant and equipment 
(including wear parts)*
 4,488.76 
 908.91 
 61.84 
 (172.77)
 5,163.06 
 3,283.60 
 350.61 
 57.61 
 (83.79)
 3,492.81 
 1,670.25 
 1,205.16 
(d)	 Furniture and fixtures
 220.37 
 26.34 
 (9.16)
 (23.85)
 232.02 
 149.95 
 15.21 
 (9.17)
 (11.28)
 163.05 
 68.97 
 70.42 
(e)	 Vehicles
 111.28 
 12.99 
 12.84 
 (1.39)
 110.04 
 53.12 
 15.14 
 9.80 
 (1.47)
 56.99 
 53.05 
 58.16 
(f)	 Office equipment
 119.41 
 10.74 
 3.83 
 (5.14)
 121.18 
 72.58 
 8.24 
 4.21 
 (4.06)
 72.55 
 48.63 
 46.83 
(g)	 Electrical installation
 26.27 
 0.24 
 (5.79)
 0.00^ 
 32.31 
 16.78 
 1.29 
 (5.11)
 0.00^ 
 23.18 
 9.12 
 9.50 
Total 
 7,842.92  1,048.72 
 63.79 
 (262.95)
 8,564.89  4,787.72  455.87 
 57.47 
 (102.94)
 5,083.18  3,481.71  3,055.19 
Note: 3(a) Property, Plant And Equipment
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group
Note:
(i)	
Refer note 20 and 24 for Property, plant and equipment pledged as security.
(ii)	
Contractual obligations
	
Refer to note 45B for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
(iii)	 No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Group and its Joint Venture for holding benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions 
Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) [formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)] and Rules made thereunder
262
263
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 3(a) Property, Plant And Equipment (Contd..)
(iv)	 Title deeds of all the immovable properties owned by the holding company and it's subsidiaries are held in their respective names except for one subsidiary whose details 
are given below:
Relevant line item
Class of 
Assets
Description 
of item of 
property
Gross 
Carrying 
Value (J)
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of 
Whether title 
deed holder 
is a promoter, 
director, relative of 
promoter, director/ 
or employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since which date 
(Financial Year)
Reason for not being held in the name 
of the company
Property Plant and 
Equipment
Freehold 
Land
Freehold land 
measuring 10.20 
acres located 
at Kumardubi 
disclosed as 
fixed asset in the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements.
68.97*
Title deeds are 
in the name 
of erstwhile 
Holding Co of 
subsidiary.
No
30th November,1988
The deed of conveyance is held in the name 
of McNally Bird Engineering Company 
Limited, which was renamed McNally 
Bharat Engineering Company Limited on 
13 December 1972. The product division 
of McNally Bharat Engineering Company 
Limited was demerged and renamed 
McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited (MSEL) 
following the approval of the Hon’ble 
Calcutta High Court on 28 July 2009. 
Subsequently, Tega Industries Limited 
acquired MSEL as per the Resolution Plan 
approved by the Committee of Creditors 
(CoC) and the Hon’ble NCLT, Kolkata 
Bench on 24 February 2023 and renamed 
it Tega McNally Minerals Limited with 
effect from 06 October 2023.
	
*corresponds to H 25.62 Mn (historical cost) in the statutory financial statements of the subsidiary company
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Right-of-use  assets
Land [Refer note (i) below]
 1,014.15 
 1,028.72 
Buildings
 216.20 
 235.18 
Plant and equipment
 523.70 
 491.59 
Office Equipment
 34.55 
 1.10 
Vehicle
 42.57 
 39.40 
Total
 1,831.17 
 1,795.99 
Note 3(b): Right-Of-Use Assets
a)	 The Group As A Lessee
	
The Group’s significant leasing arrangements include assets dedicated for use under long-term arrangements, lease of land, office space, 
equipment, vehicles and some IT equipment. Lease of Land have lease term of 60 years, leases of plant and equipment and office equipments 
have lease terms between 2 to 30 years, offices and guest houses generally have lease terms between 12 months to 60 years and vehicle 
generally have lease term between 3 years to 5 years. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different 
terms and conditions. Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is 
available for use by the group. The group also has certain leases of offices and guest houses with lease terms of 12 months or less. The group 
applies the 'short-term lease' recognition exemptions for these leases. For leases recognised under long term arrangements involving use 
of a dedicated asset, non-lease components are excluded based on the underlying contractual terms and conditions.
b)	 Amounts Recognised In Consolidated Balance Sheet
	
The balance sheet shows the following amounts relating to leases:
	
Note (i): Refer note 20 and 24 for Right-of-Use land pledged as security.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease Liabilities 
Current 
 179.34 
 152.11 
Non-Current 
 497.86 
 496.60 
Total
 677.20 
 648.71 
c)	 Following Are The Changes In Carrying Value Of Right-Of-Use Assets
Particulars
Right-
of-Use 
Land
Right-
of-Use 
Buildings
Right-of-Use 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Right-of-
Use Office 
Equipment
Right-of-
use vehicle
Total 
Right-of-
UseAssets 
Opening Balance as at 1 April 2024 (At cost)
1,104.26 
 311.86 
 658.72 
 23.32 
 69.38 
 2,167.54 
Additions during the year
 3.76 
 1.64 
 101.83 
 45.55 
 23.74 
 176.52 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 (2.17)
 (55.19)
 - 
 - 
 (6.17)
 (63.53)
Exchange Differences
 - 
 0.61 
 60.70 
 (0.01)
 5.32 
 66.62 
Balance as at 31 March 2025 (At cost)
1,105.85 
 258.92 
 821.25 
 68.86 
 92.27 
 2,347.15 
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 April 2024
 75.54 
 76.68 
 167.13 
 22.22 
 29.98 
 371.55 
Charge for the year #
 18.36 
 16.96 
 112.11 
 12.06 
 23.15 
 182.64 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 (2.20)
 (51.37)
 - 
 - 
 (5.92)
 (59.49)
Exchange Differences
 - 
 0.45 
 18.31 
 0.03 
 2.49 
 21.28 
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March 2025
 91.70 
 42.72 
 297.55 
 34.31 
 49.70 
 515.98 
Carrying amount as at 31 March 2025
1,014.15 
 216.20 
 523.70 
 34.55 
 42.57 
 1,831.17 
264
265
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(b): Right-Of-Use Assets(Contd..)
Particulars
Right-
of-Use 
Land
Right-
of-Use 
Buildings
Right-of-Use 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Right-of-
Use Office 
Equipment
Right-of-
use vehicle
Total 
Right-of-
UseAssets 
Opening Balance as at 1 April 2023 (At cost)
 1,080.31 
 295.72 
 536.37 
 22.31 
 48.50 
 1,983.21 
Additions during the year
 25.12 
 16.94 
 251.95 
 1.11 
 28.30 
 323.42 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 (1.17)
 - 
 (8.43)
 - 
 - 
 (9.60)
Exchange Differences
 - 
 (0.80)
 (121.17)
 (0.10)
 (7.42)
 (129.49)
Balance as at 31 March 2024 (At cost)
 1,104.26 
 311.86 
 658.72 
 23.32 
 69.38 
 2,167.54 
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 April 2023
 53.89 
 58.30 
 108.23 
 17.18 
 16.63 
 254.23 
Charge for the year #
 22.08 
 19.01 
 95.37 
 5.20 
 15.77 
 157.43 
Assets disposed/ lease terminated during the year
 (0.43)
 - 
 (8.43)
 - 
 - 
 (8.86)
Exchange Differences
 - 
 (0.63)
 (28.04)
 (0.16)
 (2.42)
 (31.25)
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 March 
2024
 75.54 
 76.68 
 167.13 
 22.22 
 29.98 
 371.55 
Carrying amount as at 31 March 2024
 1,028.72 
 235.18 
 491.59 
 1.10 
 39.40 
 1,795.99 
	
# Included under Depreciation and Amortisation expense (Refer Note 36)
(d)	Following Are The Changes In Carrying Value Of Lease Liabilities
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening balance
 648.71 
 514.17 
Additions during the year
 173.19 
 359.97 
Finance costs during the year
 60.27 
 66.28 
Lease terminated during the year
 (4.59)
 (0.13)
Lease payments during the year
 (243.69)
 (195.40)
Exchange Differences
 43.31 
 (96.18)
Closing balance
 677.20 
 648.71 
(e)	Amounts Recognised In The Consolidated Statement Of Profit And Loss
	
The consolidated statement of profit and loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
a.	 Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets  (Refer Note 36)
 182.64 
 157.43 
b.	 Interest expense (Refer Note 35)
 60.27 
 66.28 
c.	 Expenses relating to short-term leases  (Refer Note 37)
 24.71 
 31.47 
Total
 267.62 
 255.18 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(b): Right-of-Use Assets(Contd..) 
(f)	 The Group had a total cash outflow of H 243.69 Mn for leases for the year ended 31 March 2025. (31 March 2024 H 195.40 Mn)
(g)	Extension And Termination Options
	
Extension and termination options are included in the Group's lease contracts. These are used to maximise operational flexibility 
in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. In majority of the lease contracts, the extension and termination 
options held are exercisable by mutual consent of both the lessor and the lessee and in few contracts, the option to terminate the 
lease is with lessee only.
	
For determining the lease term land, plant & machinery, office space and office equipments, the following factors are normally 
the most relevant:
 
 
If there are significant penalty payments to terminate (or not extend), the group is typically reasonably certain to extend (or 
not terminate).
 
 
If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Group is typically reasonably certain to 
extend (or not terminate).
 
 
Otherwise, the Group considers other factors including historical lease durations and the costs and business disruption 
required to replace the leased asset.
	
The holding company has entered into a long-term lease for an office space which contains further renewal options and only the 
Holding Company can terminate the lease giving 6 months notice. Considering the above factors, the termination option with 
the Holding Company and the expected period of use, the lease term has been determined as 60 years which is shorter than the 
contractual duration.
(h)	Residual Value Guarantees
	
There are no residual value guarantees in relation to any lease contracts.
(i)	
The Holding Company has entered into a 36 months leave and license agreement for five office spaces at various locations. These 
agreement are pending for registration under the Registration Act, 1908.
266
267
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(b): Right-of-Use Assets(Contd..) 
(j)	
Deeds not in the name of a subsidiary company:
Relevant 
line item
Class of 
Assets
Description of 
item of property
Gross 
Carrying 
Value (J)
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of 
Whether title 
deed holder 
is a promoter, 
director, relative 
of promoter, 
director/ or 
employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held since 
which date 
(Financial 
Year)
Reason for not being held in the name of the 
company
Right-of-Use 
Assets
Right-
of-Use 
Land
Leasehold land 
measuring 17.01 
acres located 
at Kumardhubi 
disclosed as Right-
of-Use Assets in 
the Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements.
114.41*
Title deeds are 
in the name 
of erstwhile 
holding 
company of 
the subsidiary 
company
No
13 December 
1972
The deed of conveyance is held in the name of McNally 
Bird Engineering Company Limited, which was renamed 
McNally Bharat Engineering Company Limited on 13 
December 1972. The product division of McNally Bharat 
Engineering Company Limited was demerged and renamed 
McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited (MSEL) following the 
approval of the Hon’ble Calcutta High Court on 28 July 
2009. Subsequently, Tega Industries Limited acquired MSEL 
as per the Resolution Plan approved by the Committee of 
Creditors (CoC) and the Hon’ble NCLT, Kolkata Bench on 
24 February 2023 and renamed it Tega McNally Minerals 
Limited with effect from 06 October 2023.
Right-of-Use 
Assets
Right-
of-Use 
Land
Leasehold land 
measuring 5 acres 
located at Asansol 
disclosed as Right-
of-Use Assets in 
the  Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements.
226.30#
Title deeds are 
in the name 
of erstwhile 
holding 
company of 
the subsidiary 
company
No
4 September  
2008
The lease deed is held in the name of McNally Bharat 
Engineering Company Limited. The product division of 
McNally Bharat Engineering Company Limited was demerged 
and renamed McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited (MSEL) 
following the approval of the Hon’ble Calcutta High Court on 
28th July 2009. Subsequently, Tega Industries Limited acquired 
MSEL as per the Resolution Plan approved by the Committee 
of Creditors (CoC) and the Hon’ble NCLT, Kolkata Bench 
on 24 February 2023 and renamed it Tega McNally Minerals 
Limited with effect from 06 October 2023.
	
*corresponds to H 42.12 Mn (historical cost) in the statutory financial statements of the subsidiary company.
	
#corresponds to H 33.01 Mn (historical cost) in the statutory financial statements of the subsidiary company.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(c): Capital Work In Progress
Particulars
 (a) 
 (b) 
 (c)  
 (d) 
 e= (a+b+c+d) 
 As at 
1 April 2024 
 Addition 
Capitalisation/ 
adjustments 
 Exchange 
differences 
As at 
31 March 2025 
Capital work in progress
 107.18 
 545.84 
 (226.07)
 30.17 
 457.12 
Particulars
 (a) 
 (b) 
 (c)  
 (d) 
 e= (a+b+c+d) 
 As at 
1 April 2023 
 Addition 
Capitalisation/ 
adjustments 
 Exchange 
differences 
As at 
31 March 2024 
Capital work in progress
 120.25 
 276.59 
 (283.12)
 (6.54)
 107.18 
Notes:
(a)	Capital Work In Progress Ageing Schedule:
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 454.32 
 0.83 
 0.96 
 1.01 
 457.12 
Total
 454.32 
 0.83 
 0.96 
 1.01 
 457.12 
Particulars
Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 80.17 
 25.78 
 0.32 
 0.91 
107.18
Total
 80.17 
 25.78 
 0.32 
 0.91 
107.18
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
(b)	Capital Work In Progress For Which Completion Is Overdue Or Has 
Exceeded Its Cost Compared To Its Original Plan:
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
 To be completed in (as per management estimate) 
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
PU Flooring 
 5.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.96 
Renovation & Relayouting Stores
 9.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9.23 
Network Infrastructure
 8.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.94 
Others*
 9.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9.27 
Total 
 33.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33.40 
	
	
*Others comprise of various projects with individually immaterial values
268
269
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(c): Capital Work In Progress 
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Automotive Module Industry 4.0
 24.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.01 
Hydraulic Press
 6.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.50 
Joka Factory Shed
 4.18 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.18 
Others*
 25.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25.42 
Total 
 60.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.11 
	
	
*Others comprise of various projects with individually immaterial values
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(d): Other Intangible Assets
Particulars
 Gross Block 
 Amortisation 
 Net Block 
As at 
1 April 
2024 
Additions 
during 
the year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
Exchange 
Differences 
As at 
31 March 
2025 
 As at 
1 April 
2024 
For the 
year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
 Exchange 
Differences 
 As at 
31 March 
2025 
As at 
31 March 
2025
As at 
31 March 
2024
Other intangible assets
(a)	 Computer software
 136.96 
 47.51 
 3.98 
 2.88 
 183.37 
 79.09 
 29.46 
 3.98 
 2.21 
 106.78 
 76.59 
 57.87 
(b)	 Technical know -how
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.05 
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
(c)	 Designs and drawings
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 225.00 
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Brand
 25.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25.30 
 6.87 
 6.15 
 - 
 - 
 13.02 
 12.28 
 18.43 
Total 
 388.31 
 47.51 
 3.98 
 2.88 
 434.72 
 312.01 
 35.61 
 3.98 
 2.21 
 345.85 
 88.87 
 76.30 
Particulars
 Gross Block 
 Amortisation 
 Net Block 
As at 
 1 April 
2023 
Additions 
during 
the year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
Exchange 
Differences 
As at 
31 March 
2024
 As at 
1 April 
2023 
For the 
year 
Disposals/ 
adjustments 
during the year 
 Exchange 
Differences 
 As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2023
Other intangible assets
(a)	 Computer software
 78.12 
 64.70 
 - 
 (5.86)
 136.96 
 65.86 
 17.17 
 - 
 (3.94)
 79.09 
 57.87 
 12.26 
(b)	 Technical know -how
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.05 
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
(c)	 Designs and drawings
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 225.00 
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Brand
 25.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25.30 
 0.52 
 6.35 
 - 
 - 
 6.87 
 18.43 
 24.78 
 Total 
 329.47 
 64.70 
 - 
 (5.86)
 388.31 
 292.43 
 23.52 
 - 
 (3.94)
 312.01 
 76.30 
 37.04 
270
271
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(e): Intangible Assets Under Development 
Particulars
 (a) 
 (b) 
 (c)  
 (d) 
 e= (a+b+c+d) 
 As at 
1 April 2024 
 Addition 
Capitalisation/ 
adjustments 
 Exchange 
differences 
As at 
31 March 2025 
Intangible assets under development
 1.86 
 21.72 
 (1.86)
 - 
 21.72 
Particulars
 (a) 
 (b) 
 (c)  
 (d) 
 e= (a+b+c+d) 
 As at 
1 April 2023 
 Addition 
Capitalisation/ 
adjustments 
 Exchange 
differences 
As at 
31 March 2024 
Intangible assets under development
 - 
 2.32 
 (0.46)
 - 
 1.86 
Notes:
(a)	Intangible Assets Under Development Ageing Schedule:
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Amount in Intangible asset under development for the period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 21.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.72 
Total
 21.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.72 
Particulars
Amount in Intangible asset under development for the period of
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
Total
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
(b)	Intangible Assets Under Development For Which Completion Is Overdue 
Or Has Exceeded Its Costs Compared To Its Original Plan:
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Technical Knowhow
 21.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.72 
Total
 21.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.72 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
To be completed in (as per management estimate)
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
 3 years
Total
Software Upgradation
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
Total
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
Note 3(e): Intangible Assets Under Development (Contd..)	
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
Note: 4 Investment Property
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Land
 36.72 
 34.09 
Total
 36.72 
 34.09 
Particulars
Fair value As at 
March 31, 2025
Fair value As at 
March 31, 2024
Land
 36.72 
 34.09 
Total
 36.72 
 34.09 
Movement In Balances
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Cost as at beginning of the year
 34.09 
 36.02 
Add/(less): Exchange difference during the year
 2.63 
 (1.93)
Cost as at end of the year
 36.72 
 34.09 
Net carrying value as at beginning of the year
 34.09 
 36.02 
Net carrying value as at end of the year
 36.72 
 34.09 
Fair Value Of Group's Investment Property
The Group has identified its unsecured freehold vacant land at Farm number 110, portion 224, Klippoortjie, Gauteng, South Africa held 
under title deed number T38235/2009 as investment property. The fair valuation of the property is done by SAIV, (31 March 2024: SAIV) 
Independent valuer and appraiser for the Master of the Supreme Court (Pretoria) and has the appropriate qualifications and recent 
experience in the fair value measurement of properties in the relevant locations. Details of the fair value of the group investment property 
as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 are given below:
Fair Value measurement of Investment property is included in Level-2 hierarchy.
The Group has fair valued Investment Property for disclosure purpose, however the said investment property is related to one of its 
foreign subsidiary, hence requirement of valuation of Investment property by a registered valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies 
(Registered Valuer and Valuation) Rules, 2017 not applicable.
272
273
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
The goodwill is attributable to the manufacturing entities in Australia and South Africa. The carrying amount of goodwill for such entities 
are H 605.04 Mn (31 March 2024: H 608.44 Mn ) and H 6.20 Mn (31 March 2024: H 5.75 Mn ) respectively.
The Group has adopted ‘value in use’ method to determine the carrying value of cash generating unit. The calculations use cash flow 
projections based on management estimates for the next financial year, and projections are further made for a period of four years. Cash 
flow beyond these periods are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates. The key assumptions used by the management are revenue 
growth rate and discount rate.
The base assumptions considered for testing the goodwill impairment for both the cash generating units are as follows:
 
 
The discounting rate (Post tax) has been taken at 16.60% (31 March 2024: 17.90%) for Australia and 19.70% (31 March 2024: 17.30%) 
for South Africa.
 
 
The long term growth rate has been taken at 2.00% (31 March 2024: 2.00%) for Australia and 2.00% (31 March 2024: 2.00%) 
for South Africa.
Management has determined the values assigned to each of the above key assumptions as follows:
Revenue growth rate
Average annual growth rate over the five-year forecast period; based on past performance and management’s expectations of market 
development and current industry trends including long-term inflation forecasts for each territory.
Long-term growth rate
This is the weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period. The rates are consistent with forecasts 
included in industry reports.
Post-tax discount rates
Reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments and the countries in which they operate.
Other key assumptions
Other key assumptions considered by the management are the costs which are largely dependent on the revenues, and accordingly any 
change in revenue projections will also impact the costs similarly.
As a result of the above test for impairment the recoverable amount of the CGUs exceeded the carrying value of the CGUs.
Movement In Balances
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Cost as at beginning of the year
 614.19 
 624.78 
Add/ less: Exchange difference during the year on translation of Goodwill of foreign subsidiaries 
 (2.95)
 (10.59)
Cost as at end of the year
 611.24 
 614.19 
Net carrying value as at beginning of the year
 614.19 
 624.78 
Net carrying value as at end of the year
 611.24 
 614.19 
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2025
As at 
31 March 2024
Goodwill on consolidation
 611.24 
 614.19 
Note: 5 Goodwill
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 5 Goodwill (Contd..)
Goodwill in the Consolidated Financial Statements primarily consists of goodwill in manufacturing entity in Australia. The recoverable 
amount of manufacturing entity in Australia (CGU) would equal its carrying amount if the key assumptions were to change as follows:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
From
To
From
To
Long-term growth rate (%)
2.00%
(10.72%)
2.00%
(22.98%)
Post-tax discount rate (%)
16.60%
21.68%
17.90%
27.98%
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to:
Deferred tax assets
	
Allowance for doubtful debts and advances
 147.84 
 100.53 
	
Accumulated loss *
 253.98 
 144.35 
	
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 35.23 
 25.89 
	
Lease liabilities
 146.24 
 143.71 
	
Other temporary difference
 169.35 
 119.47 
Total (A)
 752.64 
 533.95 
Deferred tax liabilities
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 226.91 
 207.99 
	
Fair valuation of investment
 4.27 
 - 
	
Right-of-Use Assets
 152.64 
 135.80 
	
Other temporary difference
 - 
 0.85 
Total (B)
 383.82 
 344.64 
Deferred tax assets (net) (A-B)
 368.82 
 189.31 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise stated)
At amortised cost
Security Deposits
 36.83 
 31.60 
Carried at FVTPL
Derivative assets 
	
Foreign currency options
 8.82 
 22.74 
	
Interest rate swaps
 0.89 
 6.59 
Total
 46.54 
 60.93 
Note: 6 Other Financial Assets - Non Current
Note: 7 Income Tax Assets (Net) - Non Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance Income Tax  (Net of provision for income tax)
 63.14 
 78.47 
Total
 63.14 
 78.47 
Note: 8 Deferred Tax Assets (Net)
Refer note 38 for tax expenses
* absorption expected based on future taxable income
274
275
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Raw materials [including Goods in transit : H 103.37 Mn (31 March 2024: H48.67 Mn)]
 2,081.17 
 1,900.87 
Work-in-progress
 587.54 
 576.38 
Finished goods
 1,139.89 
 925.54 
Stores and spares [including Goods in transit : H 16.60 Mn (31 March 2024: H 24.14 Mn)]
 336.65 
 298.69 
Total
 4,145.25 
 3,701.48 
Note: 8 Deferred Tax Assets (Net) (Contd..)
Significant Estimates
The Company has unabsorbed depreciation and carry forward business losses available for set off under Income tax Act, 1961. However, 
in view of inability to assess all future taxable income, the extent of deferred tax assets which may be adjusted in subsequent years is not 
ascertainable at this stage, and accordingly the deferred tax asset has been recognised only to the extent of the expected taxable profit 
for the next one year approved by the board in its meeting held on 07 April 2025. The entity has not recognised H 360.67 Mn of DTA on 
unused tax losses in the financial statements on account of the uncertainty as explained above.
Note: 9 Other Non-Current Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise stated)
Capital advances
 9.64 
 4.33 
Prepaid expenses
 10.77 
 6.85 
Security deposits
	
Considered good
 - 
 2.22 
	
Considered doubtful
 - 
 3.90 
	
Less: Provision for doubtful advances
 - 
 (3.90)
Total
 20.41 
 13.40 
Note: 10 Inventories
(At Lower Of Cost And Net Realisable Value)
Note:
(i)	
The Group has expensed inventory of H 100.42 Mn (31 March 2024: H 42.88 Mn)  for writing down the value of inventories towards 
slow moving, non-moving and obsolete inventory.
(ii)	
Inventories have been pledged to secure borrowings of the group, wherever applicable. (Refer Note 20 and 24).
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
I.	 Measured at FVTPL
	
Investments in Mutual Funds
	
Unquoted
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 99.55 
 138.52 
	
885,277 units (31 March 2024: 1,341,644 units)
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Nifty SDL Apr 2027 Index Fund-Direct Plan-Growth 
 61.23 
 56.55 
	
5,038,568 units (31 March 2024: 5,038,568 units) 
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 56.74 
 52.28 
	
152,462 units (31 March 2024: 152,462 units)
	
Axis Short Term Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 201.15 
 228.17 
	
6,113,415 units (31 March 2024: 7,548,504 units)
	
Axis Crisil IBX SDL May 2027 Index Fund-Direct Plan-Growth
 38.67 
 35.64 
	
3,215,316 units (31 March 2024: 3,215,316 units)
	
Axis Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Direct Plan-Growth
 - 
 32.47 
	
Nil (31 March 2024: 13,233 units)
	
Axis Strategic Bond Fund -Direct plan Growth
 72.76 
 66.51 
	
2,423,475 units (31 March 2024: 2,423,475 units)
	
Axis Money Market  - Direct Plan - Growth
 40.58 
 - 
	
28,256 units (31 March 2024:NIL)
	
Bandhan Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 32.75 
 30.40 
	
845,823 units (31 March 2024: 845,823 units)
	
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 105.51 
 97.16 
	
5,451,773 units (31 March 2024: 5,451,773 units)
	
Bandhan Bond Fund-Short Term - Direct Plan - Growth
 41.73 
 38.35 
	
698,262 units (31 March 2024: 698,262 units)
	
DSP Low Duration Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 19.53 
 18.11 
	
973,263 units (31 March 2024: 973,263 units)
	
DSP Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 41.91 
 38.58 
	
1,715,129 units (31 March 2024: 1,715,129 units)
	
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 103.99 
 95.50 
	
3,195,709 units (31 March 2024: 3,195,709 units)
	
ICICI Prudential Short Term Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 72.64 
 66.83 
	
1,133,953 units (31 March 2024: 1,133,953 units)
	
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 7.69 
 48.57 
	
251,828 units (31 March 2024: 1,725,839 units)
	
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 279.81 
 123.24 
	
6,63,555 Units (31st March, 2024:  6,62,496) 
	
ICICI Prudential Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 34.91 
 43.03 
	
64,700 Units (31st March, 2024: 86,930 Units)
	
ICICI Prudential Long Term Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 20.75 
 75.44 
	
213,889 units (31 March 2024: 858,747 units)
	
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 150.13 
 151.98 
	
39,016 units (31 March 2024: 42,991 units)
	
Kotak Dynamic Bond Fund - Direct Plan-Growth
 - 
 35.31 
	
Nil (31 March 2024: 961,479 units)
	
Kotak Banking and PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 71.64 
 66.00 
	
1,075,722 units (31 March 2024: 1,075,722 units)
	
Kotak Bond Short Term Plan - Direct Plan - Growth
 71.53 
 65.76 
Note: 11 Investments - Current
276
277
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
	
1,276,236 units (31 March 2024: 1,276,236 units)
	
Kotak Nifty SDL Apr 2027 Top 12 Equal Weight Index Fund-Direct Plan-Growth 
 54.93 
 78.76 
	
4,561,698 units (31 March 2024: 7,092,638 units)
	
Mirae Asset Dynamic Bond Fund-Direct Plan-Growth
 - 
 21.31 
	
NIL  (31 March 2024: 1,336,396 units)
	
Mirae Asset Nifty SDL Jun 2027 Index Fund-Direct Plan-Growth 
 102.74 
 94.66 
	
8,526,590 units (31 March 2024: 8,526,590 units)
	
Mirae Asset Overnight Direct Plan-Growth 
 25.07 
 0.01 
	
21,383 units (31 March 2024: 12 units)
	
Nippon India Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 172.87 
 224.39 
	
8,211,606 units (31 March 2024: 11,556,011 units)
	
Nippon India Liquid Fund - Direct Plan-Growth
 33.56 
 34.08 
	
5,288 units (31 March 2024: 5,768 units)
	
SBI Arbitarge Oppurtinuties Direct Plan-Growth
 31.37 
 15.17 
	
888,325 units (31 March 2024: 463,286 units)
	
SBI Banking and PSU Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 161.81 
 149.23 
	
49,992 units (31 March 2024: 49,992 units)
	
SBI Corporate Bond Fund-Direct Plan - Growth
 20.06 
 37.68 
	
1,285,371 units (31 March 2024: 2,626,294 units)
	
SBI Magnum Constant Maturity Fund - Direct Plan -Growth 
 23.85 
 55.01 
	
367,606 units (31 March 2024: 930,692 units)
	
SBI Dynamic Bond Fund - Direct Plan -Growth
 52.57 
 14.14 
	
1,370,540 units (31 March 2024: 402,240 units)
	
Tata Fixed Maturity Plan Series 61 Scheme A (91 days) - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 50.21 
	
Nil units (31 March 2024: 4,999,750 units)
	
Tata Corporate Bond Fund Direct Plan-Growth
 0.49 
 - 
	
39,248 Units (31 March 2024: Nil)
	
UTI Liquid Direct Plan-Growth
 58.68 
 - 
	
13,806 Units (31 March 2024: Nil)
	
UTI Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 37.65 
	
Nil  (31 March 2024: 1,867,741 units)
	
UTI Crisil SDL Maturity June 2027 Index Fund - Direct Plan - Growth 
 34.25 
 62.48 
	
2,900,078 units (31 March 2024: 5,739,008 units)
 2,397.45 
 2,479.18 
Total
 2,397.45 
 2,479.18 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,397.45 
 2,479.18 
Note: 11 Investments - Current (Contd..)
Note: 12(a) Trade Receivables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Unsecured, considered good
 5,062.41 
 4,533.53 
(b)	 Credit impaired
 383.85 
 498.33 
 5,446.26 
 5,031.86 
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (435.79)
 (558.93)
Net Trade receivables
 5,010.47 
 4,472.93 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 12(a) Trade Receivables (Contd..)
Notes:
(i)	Allowance For Expected Credit Loss
	
In determination of the allowance for credit losses on receivables, the Group has used the practical expedient by computing the 
expected credit losses based on provision matrix, which has taken into account historical credit loss experience and adjusted for 
forward looking information. The Group also analyses all its receivables periodically for recoverability assessment and wherever they 
have analysed that the receivable may be credit impaired on account of non recoverability, loss allowance on such receivables have 
been provided in full.
	
Details of allowances for expected credit loss are provided hereunder:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
 558.93 
 559.94 
Provisions created/ (written back) during the year (net) (a)
 (124.64)
 1.18 
Adjustments (Exchange Difference)
 1.50 
 (2.19)
Closing at the end of the year
 435.79 
 558.93 
Bad debts and advances written off (b)
143.69
111.06
Total charge to consolidated statement of profit & loss (a+b)
19.05
112.24
(ii)	Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule:  
	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled
Not Due 
Less than 
6 Months 
6 Months 
- 1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
 3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed - considered good
262.76 
 2,991.66 
 1,345.00 
 195.81 
193.32  27.62 
 46.24 
 5,062.41 
(ii)	 Undisputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 2.23 
 4.27 
 17.54  71.74 
 264.43 
 360.21 
(iii)	Disputed - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	Disputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.64 
 23.64 
Total
 262.76  2,991.66 
 1,347.23 
 200.08 
210.86 99.36 
 334.31 
5,446.26 
Less: Allowance for credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 2.23 
 4.27 
 17.54  71.74 
 288.07 
 383.85 
Net trade receivables before 
credit losses
262.76  2,991.66 
 1,345.00 
 195.81 
193.32 27.62 
 46.24 
5,062.41 
Expected loss rate
0.00%
0.59%
1.68%
1.63%
1.96%
4.56%
7.53%
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit losses
 17.69 
 22.54 
 3.19 
 3.78 
 1.26 
 3.48 
 51.94 
Total 
262.76  2,973.97 
 1,322.46 
 192.62 
189.54 26.36 
 42.76 
5,010.47 
278
279
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 12(a) Trade Receivables (Contd..)
	
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled
Not Due 
Less than 
6 Months 
6 Months 
- 1 year
1-2 
years 
2-3 
years 
More than 
 3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed - considered good
 298.46 
 2,118.74 
 1,492.32 
 358.34 
 173.29 
 50.85 
 41.53 
 4,533.53 
(ii)	 Undisputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 3.28 
 7.53 
 44.92 
 55.72 
 363.24 
 474.69 
(iii)	Disputed - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	Disputed - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.64 
 23.64 
Total
 298.46  2,118.74 
 1,495.60 
 365.87 
218.21 
106.57 
 428.41 
5,031.86 
Less: Allowance for credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 3.28 
 7.53 
 44.92 
 55.72 
 386.88 
 498.33 
Net trade receivables before 
credit losses
 298.46  2,118.74 
 1,492.32 
 358.34 
173.29 
 50.85 
 41.53 
4,533.53 
Expected loss rate
0.00%
1.05%
1.69%
2.19%
1.07%
2.20%
5.39%
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit losses
 - 
 22.35 
 25.19 
 7.84 
 1.86 
 1.12 
 2.24 
 60.60 
Total 
 298.46  2,096.39 
 1,467.13 
 350.50 
171.43 
 49.73 
 39.29 
4,472.93 
(iii)	 There are no outstanding receivable due from directors or other officers of the Group.
(iv)	 Trade receivables have been pledged to secure borrowings of the Group, wherever applicable (Refer Note 20 and Note 24).
(v)	 Refer Note 46 for receivables from related parties.
(vi)	 The Group's exposure to customers is diversified and there is no concentration of credit risk with respect to any particular customer.
Note: 12(b) Contract Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contract Assets
 - 
 9.31 
Total
 - 
 9.31 
Notes: 
(a)	
Contract assets have been pledged to secure borrowings of the group, wherever applicable (Refer Note 20 and Note 24).
(b	
 Significant changes in contract assets:
	
Contract assets have increased as the Group has provided higher services ahead of the agreed payment schedules for fixed-
price contracts.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 13 Cash And Cash Equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
 3.43 
 1.94 
Balances with banks
	
In current accounts
 782.73 
 394.78 
	
Deposits of original maturity of less than three months
 356.79 
 466.45 
Total
 1,142.95 
 863.17 
Note: 14 Other Bank Balances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Other bank balances
	
In deposit account*
 68.20 
 3.73 
Earmarked balances
	
In unclaimed dividend accounts
 0.41 
 0.21 
Total
 68.61 
 3.94 
*Lodged as security against bank guarantee H 68.20 Mn as at 31 March 2025 (31 March 2024: H NIL)
Note: 15 Loans - Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Loans to employees
 0.57 
 0.87 
Total
 0.57 
 0.87 
Note:
(a)	
There are no outstanding loans due from directors or other officers of the Group.
(b)	 There are no loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to promoters, directors, KMPs, and the related parties (as defined 
under Companies Act, 2013) or other parties (including employees) either severely or jointly with any other person that are 
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment during the current or previous year. Loans granted to 
employees are unsecured in nature and are interest free. In respect of these loans, the schedule of repayment of principal amount 
has been stipulated and the employees are repaying the principal amount as stipulated in a regular manner. The terms and conditions 
under which these loans were granted are not prejudicial to the interest of the Group.
280
281
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 16 Other Financial Assets - Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise stated)
Accruals under other export incentives
 41.43 
 26.95 
Security deposits
	
Considered good
 0.21 
 - 
	
Considered doubtful
 0.06 
 - 
	
Less: Provision for doubtful balances
 (0.06)
 - 
Balances with government authorities
	
Considered good
 288.58 
 187.16 
	
Considered doubtful
 4.60 
 - 
	
Less: Provision for doubtful balances
 (4.60)
 - 
Advance to suppliers
	
Considered good
 205.66 
 155.89 
	
Considered doubtful
 12.82 
 30.98 
	
Less: Provision for doubtful advances
 (12.82)
 (30.98)
Prepaid expenses
 79.23 
 49.86 
Employee advances
 24.49 
 16.17 
Total
 639.60 
 436.03 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance Income Tax  (Net of provision for income tax)
 30.55 
 60.37 
Total
 30.55 
 60.37 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise stated)
At amortised cost
Security deposits 
Considered good
 18.79 
 5.76 
Considered doubtful
 5.08 
 2.75 
Less: Allowance for credit loss 
 (5.08)
 (2.75)
Interest receivables
 12.37 
 4.21 
Accruals under duty drawback
 11.42 
 4.18 
Other receivables
Considered good
 0.36 
 24.13 
Considered doubtful
 55.57 
 51.53 
Less: Allowance for credit loss 
 (55.57)
 (51.53)
Carried at FVTPL
Derivative asset 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 29.18 
 34.53 
Foreign currency options
 16.15 
 29.57 
Interest rate swaps
 2.86 
 6.61 
Total
 91.13 
 108.99 
Note: 17 Income Tax Assets (Net) - Current
Note: 18 Other Current Assets
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 19A Equity Share Capital
(a)	Authorised Share Capital
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 7,00,00,000 
 700.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
 7,00,00,000 
 700.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 7,00,00,000 
 700.00 
(b)	Issued, Subscribed And Fully Paid -Up Shares
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 6,63,54,112 
 663.54 
Changes during the year
Exercise of options - proceeds received (refer note 47)
 1,81,380 
 1.81 
As at 31 March 2024
 6,65,35,492 
 665.35 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 6,65,35,492 
 665.35 
(c)	Equity Shares Held By The Parent Company of The Holding Company
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
No.
% holding
No.
% holding
Equity shares:
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the ultimate 
holding company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
(d)	Details Of The Shareholders Holding More Than 5% Of Equity Shares Of 
The Holding Company
Name of the shareholders
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
No.
% holding
No.
% holding
Equity shares:
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the ultimate 
holding company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
Mr Madan Mohan Mohanka
 53,48,502 
8.04%
 53,48,502 
8.04%
Mr Manish Mohanka
 72,78,925 
10.94%
 72,78,925 
10.94%
282
283
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
(e)	Rights, Preferences And Restrictions Attached To Equity Shares
	
The Holding Company has one class of equity shares having par value of H10/-. Each equity shareholder is entitled to vote in the 
same proportion as the equity capital paid  (whether fully paid or partly paid) held by the shareholder bears to the total paid up 
equity capital of the company. Each equity shareholder is entitled to dividend in proportion of the amount paid up as and when the 
Holding Company declares and pays dividend after obtaining shareholders' approval. Dividends are paid in Indian Rupees. In the event 
of liquidation, the Equity Shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Holding Company after distribution of all 
preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
(f)	Shares Reserved For Issue Under Options
	
Pursuant to approved employee stock option scheme 2011, the Holding Company has granted Nil(31 March 2024: 498,628) nos of 
employees stock options of which Nil (31 March 2024: 242,343) of the options have been exercised (also Refer Note 47).
(g)	Shares Held By The Promoters And Promoter Group
Name of the Promoters
As at 31 March 2025
Number of 
Shares 
% of Total 
Shares 
% change during 
the period 
Equity shares:
Promoters
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka
 53,48,502 
8.04%
0.00%
Mr. Mehul Mohanka
 13,315 
0.02%
0.02%
Mr. Manish Mohanka
 72,78,925 
10.94%
0.00%
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the Holding Company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
0.00%
Name of the Promoters
As at 31 March 2024
Number of 
Shares 
% of Total 
Shares 
% change during 
the period 
Equity shares:
Promoters
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka
 53,48,502 
8.04%
(0.02%)
Mr. Mehul Mohanka
 3,315 
(0.00%^)
(3.02%)
Mr. Manish Mohanka
 72,78,925 
10.94%
(0.03%)
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited, the Holding Company
 3,71,28,203 
55.80%
0.71%
Promoter Group
Marudhar Food and Credit Limited
 - 
 - 
(1.96%)
	
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Holding Company
	
Note:
	
The change in shareholding is on account of purchase of equity shares from the open market.
(h)	 No equity shares were allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares or pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received 
in cash during the last five years. Further, none of the shares were bought back by the Company during the last five years.
Note: 19A Equity share Capital (Contd..)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 1,00,00,000 
 100.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
 1,00,00,000 
 100.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 1,00,00,000 
 100.00 
Note: 19B Preference Share Capital
(a)	Authorised Share Capital
	
Compulsorily Convertible Participatory Preference shares
	
Redeemable Preference shares
Particulars
Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
As at 1 April 2023
 2,50,00,000 
 250.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
 2,50,00,000 
 250.00 
Changes during the year
 - 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 2,50,00,000 
 250.00 
(b)	 Preference are yet to be issued and are included above for disclosure purpose only. Classification of the preference share as equity 
or liability will be determined at the time they are issued.
(c)	 No preference shares were allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares or pursuant to contract(s) without payment being 
received in cash during the last five years. Further, none of the shares were bought back by the Holding Company during the 
last five years.
Note: 19C Other Equity
Particulars
Refer below
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Reserves and surplus
Securities premium
(i)
 907.76 
 907.76 
Capital Reserve
(ii)
 1,269.83 
 1,269.83 
General reserve
(iii)
 337.98 
 337.98 
Retained earnings
(iv)
 10,876.91 
 9,016.64 
Share options outstanding account
(v)
 - 
 0.23 
Other reserves
Foreign currency translation reserve
(vi)
 (90.91)
 (285.36)
Cash flow hedge reserve
(vii)
 - 
 5.76 
Total
 13,301.57 
 11,252.84 
284
285
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i)	 Securities premium
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 907.76 
 903.79 
	
Exercise of options - proceeds received
 - 
 3.78 
	
Transfer within equity - exercise of options
 - 
 0.19 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 907.76 
 907.76 
(ii)	Capital Reserve
	
Balance at the beginning and end of the year
 1,269.83 
 1,269.83 
(iii) General reserve
	
Balance at the beginning and end of the year
 337.98 
 337.98 
(iv)	Retained earnings
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 9,016.64 
 7,217.70 
	
Profit for the year
 2,001.20 
 1,938.57 
	
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings 
	
-	
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligation, net of tax
 (13.85)
 (6.73)
	
-	
Transfer within equity
 5.99 
 - 
	
Appropriations:
	
Dividend paid [refer note 41(b)]
 (133.07)
 (132.90)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 10,876.91 
 9,016.64 
(v)	Share options outstanding account 
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 0.23 
 0.42 
	
Transfer within equity - termination of options
 (0.23)
 (0.19)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 - 
 0.23 
Other reserves
(vi)	Foreign currency translation reserve
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 (285.36)
 96.66 
	
Add: Adjustment for translation of Non Integral Foreign Operation
 194.45 
 (382.02)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 (90.91)
 (285.36)
(vii) Cash flow hedge reserve
	
Balance at the beginning of the year
 5.76 
 - 
	
Less: Transfers within equity
 (5.76)
	
Add: Fair value changes of cash flow hedges, net of tax
 - 
 5.76 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 - 
 5.76 
Total
 13,301.57 
 11,252.84 
Nature And Purpose Of Other Reserves
(i)	 Securities premium reserve
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium received on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
(ii)	Capital reserve
	
The excess of fair value of net assets acquired over consideration paid in a business combination is recognised as Capital reserve on 
Consolidation. The reserve is not available for distribution.
Note: 19C Other Equity (Contd..)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 19C Other equity (Contd..)
(iii)	General reserve
	
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, a general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net profit at a specified 
percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. Consequent to the introduction of the Companies Act 2013, the requirement 
to mandatory transfer a specified percentage of net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn.
(iv)	Retained earnings
	
Retained Earnings are the profits that the Group has earned till date, less any transfer to general reserve, dividends or other 
distributions paid to shareholders.
(v)	Share options outstanding account
	
The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under the 
Group's Employee stock option plan. Refer note 47.
(vi)	Foreign currency translation reserve
	
Exchange differences arising on translation of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated separately in foreign currency translation reserve. The amounts recognised are 
transferred to the consolidated statement of profit and loss on disposal of the related foreign subsidiaries.
(vii)Cash flow hedge reserve
	
The cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of hedging instruments designated as cash flow 
hedges are recognised in cash flow hedge reserve. Such changes recognised are reclassified to the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss when the hedged item affects the profit or loss or are included as an adjustment to the cost of the related non-financial 
hedged item in accordance with the Group's accounting policy.
Note: 20 Borrowings - Non Current
Secured
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Secured
	
Term Loans from banks* (Refer (a) & (b) below)
 1,179.50 
 1,411.31 
	
Less: Current maturities of long term borrowings (Refer Note 24)
 (195.39)
 (256.16)
Total (A)
 984.11 
 1,155.15 
Secured
	
Vehicle loans from banks and financial instituions* (Refer (c) below)
 11.12 
 10.61 
	
Less: Current maturities of long term borrowings (Refer Note 24)
 (4.58)
 (3.49)
Total (B)
 6.54 
 7.12 
Total Secured Borrowings (C=A+B)
 990.65 
 1,162.27 
286
287
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
(a)	Details Of Secured Term Loan Facilities From Banks Are As Follows:
Terms of Repayment
As at 
 31 March 
2025* 
As at 
 31 March 
2024* 
Currency 
Maturity 
Date Interest Rate 
Repayable in 28 unequal quarterly installments starting from 
28 June 2018 in the following manner:(a) first 4 installments 
of 0.50% each (b) next 4 installments of 1.00% each (c) 
next 6 installments of 2.00% each (d) next 4 installments of 
4.00% each (e) next 6 installments of 6.00% each (f) next 4 
installments of 7.50% each
 - 
 62.55 
 USD 
28-Mar-25
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
Repayable in 20 unequal quarterly installments starting 
from 22 October 2019 in the following manner:(a) first 
4 installments of 2.50% each (b) next 6 installments of 
4.00% each (c) next 2 installments of 6.00% each (d) next 4 
installments of 8.00% each (e) next 2 installments of 5.00% 
each (f) next 2 installments of 6.00% each
 - 
 50.04 
 USD 
22-Jul-24
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
Repayable in 28 unequal quarterly installments starting 
from 22 October 2019 in the following manner:(a) first 
4 installments of 0.50% each (b) next 4 installments of 
1.00% each (c) next 6 installments of 2.00% each (d) next 4 
installments of 4.00% each (e) next 6 installments of 6.00% 
each (f) next 4 installments of 7.50% each
 179.50 
 275.24 
 USD 
22-Jul-26
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
Repayable in 16 equal quarterly installments starting from 19 
February 2021 
 - 
 23.48 
 USD 19-Nov-24
Benchmarked 
to SOFR plus 
markup
Repayable in 24 quarterly installments, the first installment 
being due on March 29, 2025. The terms of repayment are 
as follows:
(i)	 4 equal quarterly installments of H 20 Mn each,
(ii)	 15 equal quarterly installments of H 40 Mn each,
(iii)	4 equal quarterly installments of H 60 Mn each, and
(iv)	1 installments of H 80 Mn.
 1,000.00 
 1,000.00 
 INR 
28-Mar-31
Benchmarked 
to Repo Rate 
plus markup
	
* based on closing rate
(b)	 The term loans of H 179.50 Mn (31 March 2024: H 387.83 Mn) are secured by first charge on pari-passu basis with the existing 
lender wherever applicable on property, plant and equipment (both moveable and immovable) and right-of-use land of the Holding 
Company and second charge on the current assets to be shared on pari-passu basis with the other working capital
	
Term Loan of H Nil (31 March 2024: H 23.48 Mn) is secured by Stand-By Letter of Credit given by the Holding Company to Axis Bank 
for loan disbursed to one of the step down subsidiary.
	
Term loan from Axis Bank Limited of H 1,000.00 Mn (31 March 2024: H 1,000.00 Mn) is secured by first pari passu charge on entire 
fixed assets of a subsidiary company and second pari passu charge on entire current assets of the said subsidiary company. The 
Holding Company has also provided Corporate Guarantee for the same
Note: 20 Borrowings - Non Current (Contd..)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 20 Borrowings - Non current (Contd..)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Derivative liabilities
	
Foreign currency options
 3.88 
 9.49 
Total
 3.88 
 9.49 
(c)	 Vehicle loans of H 4.94 Mn (31 March 2024: H7.75 Mn) is secured by hypothecation of vehicle purchased and are repayable in forty 
eight (31 March 2024: forty eight) monthly equated installments commencing from the subsequent month in which the loan is taken 
carrying fixed interest ranging from 7.97% per annum (31 March 2024: 7.97% per annum).
	
Vehicle loan of H 2.07 Mn (31 March 2024: H 2.86 Mn) is secured by hypothecation of vehicle purchased and is repayable in equal 
monthly installments of H 0.05 Mn each during the period upto 30 May 2028.
	
Vehicle loan of H 4.11 Mn (31 March 2024: H Nil) is secured by hypothecation of vehicle purchased and is repayable in equal biweekly 
installments of H 0.03 Mn each during the period upto November 2029.
Note: 21 Other Financial Liabilities -  Non Current
Note: 22 Provisions -  Non Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for long term service award
 0.41 
 0.53 
Total
 0.41 
 0.53 
Note: 23 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to:
Deferred tax liabilities
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 48.16 
 43.24 
	
Undistributed earnings of Joint Venture
 26.24 
 50.16 
	
Investments at Fair Value
 64.92 
 37.39 
	
Right-of-Use Assets
 12.35 
 4.67 
	
Other temporary difference
 9.19 
 6.28 
Total (A)
 160.86 
 141.74 
Deferred tax assets
	
Allowance for expected credit loss
 39.49 
 39.33 
	
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 36.34 
 33.34 
	
Lease liabilities
 12.90 
 5.44 
	
Other temporary difference
 10.12 
 10.31 
Total (B)
 98.85 
 88.42 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (A-B)
 62.01 
 53.32 
Refer note 38 for tax expenses
288
289
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 24 Borrowings - Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Secured 
Rupee loan from banks (Refer (a) below)
 842.58 
 850.94 
Foreign currency factoring loan from banks (Refer (b) below)
 250.15 
 - 
Foreign currency loans from banks (Refer (c) below)
 167.32 
 158.58 
Current Maturities of Long Term Debt
	
Term loan from banks
 195.39 
 256.16 
	
Vehicle loans from banks and financial institutions
 4.58 
 3.49 
Unsecured 
Foreign currency term loans from banks (Refer (d) below)
 168.62 
 - 
Total
 1,628.64 
 1,269.17 
Nature of Security:
(a)	
All the above facilities are secured by first charge over entire current assets (both present and future) of the Holding Company on 
pari-passu basis with other banks and second charge on property, plant and equipment (both moveable and immovable) and right-
of-use land of the Holding Company on pari-passu basis with other Banks.The loan is repayable over the period of 3-9 months.
(b)	 Foreign currency factoring loan from banks represents factoring arrangements entered by the respective subsidiary with recourse 
for its trade receivable with local bank which is secured by first charge on trade receivables of the respective subsidiary.
(c)	
Foreign currency loan from bank of H 167.32 Mn (31 March 2024: H 158.58 Mn) is secured by Stand-By Letter of Credit given by the 
Holding Company to Citi Bank for loan disbursed to one of the step down subisdiary.
(d)	 Foreign currency term loan from bank of H 168.62 Mn is repayable in 60 days from date of loan credited.
(e)	
With respect to one of the subsidiary,Working Capital facilities sanctioned from Axis Bank Limited are secured by first pari passu 
charge on entire current assets of the respective subsidiary and second pari passu charge on the entire fixed assets of the respective 
subsidiary and in respect of DBS Bank are secured aganist the equivalent amount of term deposits. However as on reporting date 
the respective subsidiary has not drawn or utilised any amount from such facility.
Note: 25 Trade Payables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 116.63 
 116.92 
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
	
(i)	 Acceptances
 32.42 
 50.65 
	
(ii)	 Others
 2,074.17 
 1,666.37 
Total 
 2,223.22 
 1,833.94 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled
Not 
Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
(a)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 48.19 
 52.31 
 7.38 
 2.21 
 6.54 
 116.63 
(b)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 525.58 
 921.54 
 635.75 
 12.91 
 4.25 
 6.56 
 2,106.59 
(c)	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d)	 Disputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 525.58 
969.73 
 688.06  20.29 
 6.46 
 13.10  2,223.22 
Notes:
(a)	Trade Payables Ageing Schedule:
	
(i)	 As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled
Not 
Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
(a)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 0.06 
 28.98 
 59.52 
 7.40 
 4.94 
 16.02 
 116.92 
(b)	 Undisputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 692.14 
 560.97 
 452.15 
 6.47 
 1.98 
 3.31 
 1,717.02 
(c)	 Disputed dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d)	Disputed total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 692.20 
589.95 
 511.67  13.87 
 6.92 
 19.33  1,833.94 
	
(ii)	As at 31 March 2024
b)	
Refer Note 46 for payables to related parties.
Note: 25 Trade Payables (Contd..)
290
291
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 26 Other Financial Liabilities- Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 6.56 
 7.81 
Unclaimed dividend
 0.41 
 0.21 
Derivative liabilities
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 36.59 
 3.73 
	
Foreign currency options
 - 
 2.18 
Other payables
	
Capital creditors
 0.10 
 426.97 
	
Security deposit 
 1.48 
 1.43 
	
Employee related liabilities
 150.93 
 168.59 
Total
 196.07 
 610.92 
Note: 27 Provisions - Current
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 34.1)
	
Provision for gratuity
 71.37 
 48.13 
	
Provision for compensated absences
 141.22 
 115.67 
(b)	Others
	
Provision for warranty [Refer note below]
 35.37 
 29.59 
	
Provision for long term service award
 0.16 
 0.02 
Total
 248.12 
 193.41 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Movement in Provision for warranty:
Opening Balance
 29.59 
 28.02 
Provision created during the year
 30.18 
 20.67 
Provision used during the year
 (24.40)
 (19.10)
Closing Balance
 35.37 
 29.59 
-	
Long Term
 - 
 - 
-	
Short Term
 35.37 
 29.59 
Note:
Nature Of Provisions :
The Group has given warranties on certain products and services, undertaken to repair or replace the items that failed to perform 
satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made as on 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 represent the amount of the expected 
cost of meeting such obligation of rectification/ replacement.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 28 Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax (net of advances)
 307.17 
 187.82 
Total
 307.17 
 187.82 
Note: 29 Other Current Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advances received from customers
 384.75 
 609.96 
Deferment of revenue
 108.52 
 86.35 
Grant relating to export benefits
 4.32 
 47.03 
Other payables
	
Statutory dues (Contribution to PF and ESIC, GST, Withholding Taxes, Entry Tax, etc.)
 150.14 
 270.28 
Total
 647.73 
 1,013.62 
Note: 30 Revenue From Operations
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue from operations*
 16,386.51 
 14,927.14 
Total
 16,386.51 
 14,927.14 
The group has recognised the following amounts relating to revenue in the consolidated statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
(i)	 Sale of products
 14,645.52 
 13,718.55 
(ii	 Sale of services
 1,473.01 
 920.40 
 16,118.53 
 14,638.95 
(iii)	Other operating revenue
	
Sale of scrap
 99.01 
 130.68 
	
Commission income
 22.32 
 34.44 
	
Duty drawback and other export incentives
 126.69 
 102.20 
	
Service fees
 10.91 
 13.12 
	
Others
 9.05 
 7.75 
Total
 16,386.51 
 14,927.14 
* Revenue from operations includes revenue over a period of time amounting to less than 10% of the total revenues.
292
293
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 30 Revenue from operations (Contd..)
(i)	Disaggregation Of Revenue From Contracts With Customers:
	
(a)	
The Group derives revenue from the transfer of goods and services in the following geographical regions: 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
North America
 1,574.64 
 1,511.44 
South America
 4,545.42 
 4,368.82 
EMER (Europe, Middle East and Russia)
 2,735.31 
 1,888.15 
Africa
 3,005.60 
 2,291.01 
Asia Pacific (South East Asia and Australia)
 1,128.41 
 1,172.45 
India
 3,129.15 
 3,407.08 
Total
 16,118.53 
 14,638.95 
	
(b)	 Refer Note 42 for revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated on the basis of major businesses.
(ii)	The Group Has Recognised The Following Revenue Related Contract Liabilities:
Particulars
Notes 
As at 
31 March 2025
As at 
31 March 2024
Contract assets 
12(b)
 - 
 9.31 
Total contract assets
 - 
 9.31 
Contract liabilities - Deferment of revenue
29
 108.52 
 86.35 
Contract liabilities - Advances received from customers
29
 384.75 
 609.96 
Total contract liabilities
 493.27 
 696.31 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue recognised that was included in the contract liabilities balance at the 
beginning of the year:
Sale contracts
 561.23 
 184.41 
(iii) Revenue recognised in relation to contract liabilities:
	
The following table shows how much of the revenue recognised in the current reporting period relates to carried-forward 
contract liabilities.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 30 Revenue From Operations (Contd..)
(iv) The Following Table Shows Reconciliation Of Revenue Recognised With 
Contract Price.
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Contract Price
 16,156.98 
 14,676.55 
Adjustments for:
Refund Liabilities - Claims/ liquidating damages 
 (16.28)
 0.07 
Contract liabilities - Unfulfilled obligations at the beginning of the year recognised as 
revenue during the year
 86.35 
 48.68 
Contract liabilities - Unfulfilled obligations at the end of the year*
 (108.52)
 (86.35)
Total
 16,118.53 
 14,638.95 
	
* These unfulfilled obligations are expected to be settled within the next 12 months.
Note: 31 Other Income
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
(a) Interest income
	
on financial instruments at amortised cost
 42.99 
 25.72 
	
on income tax refund
 0.28 
 15.38 
(b)	Other non-operating income 
	
Net gain on sale of investments classified at FVTPL
 72.18 
 25.27 
	
Liabilities/ provisions no longer required written back
 55.13 
 - 
	
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 (0.83)
 3.89 
	
Net gain on foreign currency transaction and translations 
 150.04 
 16.00 
	
Net gain /(losses) on fair value changes (refer table below)
 87.27 
 118.41 
	
Miscellaneous receipts
 24.48 
 17.38 
Total
 431.54 
 222.05 
Net Gain /(Losses) On Fair Value Changes
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Change in fair value of investments classified as FVTPL
 123.50 
 148.80 
Change in fair value of derivatives classified as FVTPL
 (36.23)
 (30.39)
Total
 87.27 
 118.41 
Note: 32 Cost Of Materials Consumed
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening stock
 1,900.87 
 1,581.73 
Add: Purchases
 7,357.45 
 7,278.74 
Less: Closing stock
 (2,081.17)
 (1,900.87)
Total
 7,177.15 
 6,959.60 
294
295
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 33 Changes In Inventories Of Finished Goods And Work-In-
Progress
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Inventories at the end of the year: 
Finished Goods 
 1,139.89 
 925.54 
Work-in-progress 
 587.54 
 576.38 
 1,727.43 
 1,501.92 
Less : Inventories at the beginning of the year: 
Finished Goods 
 925.54 
 496.03 
Work-in-progress 
 576.38 
 541.06 
 1,501.92 
 1,037.09 
(Increase) in finished goods and work-in-progress 
 (225.51)
 (464.83)
Exchange Difference 
 32.88 
 (39.63)
Net (Increase) in finished goods and work-in-progress
 (192.63)
 (504.46)
Note: 34 Employee Benefits Expense
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Salaries and wages (including bonus)
 2,222.83 
 1,945.94 
Contribution to provident and other funds (refer note 34.1)
 118.46 
 110.40 
Staff welfare expenses
 150.78 
 142.29 
Total
 2,492.07 
 2,198.63 
Note: 34.1 Employee Benefits Obligations
(i)	Post-Employment Obligations
	
(a)	Defined contribution plan
	
	
The Group makes Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund and Other Fund contributions to defined contribution plans for 
qualifying employees. Under the Schemes, the Group is required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs to 
fund the benefits.  The contributions payable to these plans by the Group are at rates specified in the rules of the schemes.
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
i)	 Contribution to Provident Fund *
 43.71 
38.57
ii)	 Contribution to Superannuation Fund *
 14.14 
13.33
iii)	 Contribution to Other Funds other than India*
 42.19 
41.33
 100.04 
93.23
	
	
(*) recognised under 'Contribution to provident and other funds' in Note 34.
	
(b)	Defined benefit plan- Gratuity
	
	
The Group provides for gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan covering eligible employees. As per scheme, the Gratuity Trust fund 
managed by the Trust, makes payment to vested employees on retirement, death, incapacitation or termination of employment, of an 
amount based on the respective employee's eligible salary (half month's salary) depending upon the tenure of service subject to a 
revised maximum limit of amount payable under Payment of Gratuity Act. Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity plan are determined 
by actuarial valuation as set out in Note 2.17 based upon which, the Group makes contribution to the Gratuity fund.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
(ii)	Other Long Term Employee Benefit Plans
	
The leave obligations cover the Group's liability for other long term benefits.
	
Compensated absences cover the Group's liability for sick and earned leave. As the Group does not have an unconditional right to 
defer the payment beyond 12 months the entire amount has been treated as current.
(iii) Balance Sheet Recognition
	
(a)	Gratuity
	
	
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet and the movements in the net defined benefit obligation (Gratuity) over the years 
are as follows:
Particulars
Present value 
of obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Net amount
As at 1 April 2024
 139.03 
 (90.90)
 48.13 
Current service cost
 15.02 
 - 
 15.02 
Interest expense/ (income)
 9.78 
 (6.38)
 3.40 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 24.80 
 (6.38)
 18.42 
Remeasurements
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 
expense/ (income)
 - 
 0.28 
 0.28 
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in financial assumptions
 14.00 
 - 
 14.00 
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in experience
 (1.21)
 - 
 (1.21)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 12.79 
 0.28 
 13.07 
Employer contributions/ premium paid
 (8.25)
 (8.25)
Benefit payments
 (11.19)
 11.19 
 - 
As at 31 March 2025
 165.43 
 (94.06)
 71.37 
Particulars
Present value 
of obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Net amount
As at 1 April 2023
 125.32 
 (58.95)
 66.37 
Current service cost
 12.25 
 - 
 12.25 
Interest expense/ (income)
 9.11 
 (4.19)
 4.92 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 21.36 
 (4.19)
 17.17 
Remeasurements
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 
expense/ (income)
 - 
 0.38 
 0.38 
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in financial assumptions
 9.39 
 - 
 9.39 
Actuarial (gain)/ loss from change in experience
 (1.25)
 - 
 (1.25)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 8.14 
 0.38 
 8.52 
Employer contributions
 - 
 (44.24)
 (44.24)
Benefit payments
 (16.10)
 16.10 
 - 
Past year short fall in liability
 0.31 
 - 
 0.31 
As at 31 March 2024
 139.03 
 (90.90)
 48.13 
Note: 34.1 Employee Benefits Obligations (Contd..)
296
297
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 34.1 Employee Benefits Obligations (Contd..)
(iv) Significant Estimates: Actuarial Assumptions
	
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate
6.50% to 6.75%
7.00% to 7.10%
Rate of Salary Increase
8.50% to 9.00%
7.00% to 8.50%
Rate of Employee Turnover
	
Upto 30 years
9.00% to 16.00%
9.00% to 10.00%
	
From 31 years to 44 years
4.00% to 5.00%
4.00% to 10.00%
	
More than 44 years
2.00% to 16.00%
2.00% to 10.00%
Mortality Rate During Employment
IALM 12-14 Ultimate
IALM 12-14 Ultimate
	
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors.
	
The expected return on plan assets is determined after taking into consideration composition of the plan assets held, assessed risks 
of assets management, historical results of the return on plan assets, and other relevant factors. 
(v)	Sensitivity Analysis
	
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
Particulars
% change compared to base due to sensitivity
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Discount Rate (- / + 1%)
9.50%
(9.39%)
8.27%
(8.96%)
 15.72 
 (15.53)
 10.36 
 (8.73)
Salary Growth Rate (- / + 1%)
(8.79%)
8.03%
(8.71%)
7.16%
 (14.54)
 13.29 
 (7.98)
 8.97 
Attrition Rate (- / + 50%)
2.66%
(1.40%)
1.20%
(1.31%)
 4.40 
 (2.32)
 1.79 
 (1.43)
Mortality Rate (- / + 10%)
0.86%
(0.93%)
0.10%
(0.10%)
 1.42 
 (1.54)
 0.10 
 (0.10)
	
The above sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely 
to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to 
significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit 
method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet.
(vi) The Major Categories Of Plan Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Funds Managed by Insurer
97.68%
97.41%
Bank balance
2.32%
2.59%
Total *
100.00%
100.00%
	
* Excluding Tega McNally Minerals Limited ("TMML") (formely known McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 34.1 Employee Benefits Obligations (Contd..)
	
In case of TMML, the defined benefit plans are funded with insurance companies of India and it does not have any liberty to manage 
the funds provided to insurance companies. Thus the composition of each major category of plan assets has not been disclosed.
(vii) Risk Exposure
	
Valuations are performed on certain basic set of pre-determined assumptions and other regulatory framework which may vary over 
time. Thus, the Group is exposed to various risks in providing the above gratuity benefit which are as follows:
	
Interest Risk:
	
The plan exposes the Group to the risk of fall in interest rates. A fall in interest rates will result in an increase in the ultimate cost of 
providing the above benefit and will thus result in an increase in the value of the liability (as shown in consolidated financial statements).
	
Liquidity Risk:
	
This is the risk that the Group is not able to meet the short-term gratuity payouts. This may arise due to non-availability of enough 
cash/ cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid assets not being sold in time.
	
Salary Escalation Risk:
	
The present value of the defined benefit plans calculated with the assumption of salary increase rate of plan participants in future. 
Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan participants from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the 
present value of obligation will have a bearing on the plan's liability.
	
Demographic Risk:
	
The Group has used certain mortality and attrition assumptions in valuation of the liability. The Group is exposed to the risk of actual 
experience turning out to be worse compared to the assumption.
	
Regulatory Risk:
	
Gratuity benefit is paid in accordance with the requirements of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (as amended from time to time). 
There is a risk of change in regulations requiring higher gratuity payouts (e.g. Increase in the maximum limit on gratuity of H 2.00 Mn).
(viii) Defined Benefit Liability And Employer Contributions
	
The Group expects to contribute H 43.65 Mn (31 March 2024: H 18.42 Mn) to the funded retiring gratuity plan within the 
next twelve months.
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 3.37 years to 12 years (31 March 2024: 3.17 years to 12 years).
Note: 35 Finance Costs
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Interest expense on
	
Leases [refer note 3(b)]
 60.27 
 66.28 
	
Bank borrowings and others*
 188.52 
 224.40 
Other borrowing costs
 9.17 
 8.83 
Applicable loss on foreign currency transactions and translations
 11.08 
 20.03 
Total
 269.04 
 319.54 
* Includes interest on income tax of H 2.08 Mn (31 March 2024: H Nil)
298
299
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Consumption of stores and spare parts
 145.03 
 158.34 
Power and fuel
 397.59 
 406.35 
Rent 
 37.34 
 44.70 
Repairs to buildings
 25.52 
 28.78 
Repairs to machinery
 127.11 
 130.65 
Repairs to others
 80.10 
 57.35 
Insurance expenses
 69.55 
 54.02 
Bank charges
 9.84 
 8.49 
Rates and taxes
 44.54 
 43.44 
Fabrication and other expenses
 395.81 
 396.20 
Travelling and conveyance
 380.16 
 341.69 
Commission to selling agents
 86.22 
 56.54 
Marketing fees
 1.03 
 2.86 
Packing and forwarding (net)
 589.66 
 340.86 
Product installation expenses
 281.92 
 97.19 
Postage, telephone and fax
 29.26 
 27.87 
Sales promotion expenses
 70.61 
 65.95 
Legal and professional fees
 229.28 
 313.69 
Directors' sitting fees
 1.58 
 1.39 
Allowance for expected credit loss (including bad debts and advances written off) 
 [refer note12]
 19.05 
 112.24 
Warranty expenses
 30.18 
 20.67 
Expenditure on corporate social responsibility activities
 26.34 
 22.83 
Miscellaneous expenses*
 434.11 
 381.55 
Total
 3,511.83 
 3,113.65 
Note: 36 Depreciation And Amortisation Expenses
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment [refer note 3(a)]
 795.07 
 455.87 
Depreciation on Right of Use Asset [refer note 3(b)]
 182.64 
 157.43 
Amortisation of other intangible assets [refer note 3(d)]
 35.61 
 23.52 
Total
 1,013.32 
 636.82 
Note: 37 Other Expenses
* includes H Nil (31 March 2024: H 10 Mn) contribution through electoral bond to All India Trinamool Congress
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 38 Income Tax Expense
This note provides an analysis of the Group's income tax expense, shows amounts that are recognised directly in equity and how 
the tax expense is affected by non-assessable and non-deductible items. It also explains significant estimates made in relation to the 
Group’s tax positions.
(a)	Movement In Deferred Tax Liability/ (Assets)
	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Charged/ (credited) to
Opening
Profit and Loss 
Account
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Closing
Property, plant & equipment and Intangible asset 
 251.23 
 23.86 
 - 
 275.09 
Right-of-Use Assets
 140.47 
 24.52 
 - 
 164.99 
Investments
 37.39 
 31.80 
 - 
 69.19 
Allowance for expected credit loss
 (139.86)
 (47.47)
 - 
 (187.33)
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 (59.23)
 (7.55)
 (4.80)
 (71.58)
Accumulated loss
 (144.35)
 (109.63)
 - 
 (253.98)
Lease liabilities
 (149.15)
 (9.99)
 - 
 (159.14)
Others*
 (72.49)
 (71.55)
 - 
 (144.04)
Total
 (135.99)
 (166.01)
 (4.80)
 (306.80)
	
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Charged/ (credited) to
Opening
Profit and Loss 
Account
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Closing
Property, plant & equipment and Intangible asset 
 248.15 
 3.08 
 - 
 251.23 
Right-of-Use Assets
 124.45 
 16.02 
 - 
 140.47 
Investments
 32.37 
 5.02 
 - 
 37.39 
Allowance for expected credit loss
 (271.72)
 131.86 
 - 
 (139.86)
Amounts allowable for tax purpose on payment basis
 (57.21)
 0.36 
 (2.38)
 (59.23)
Accumulated loss
 (11.12)
 (133.23)
 - 
 (144.35)
Lease liabilities
 (134.19)
 (14.96)
 - 
 (149.15)
Others*
 (45.56)
 (28.87)
 1.94 
 (72.49)
Total
 (114.83)
 (20.72)
 (0.44)
 (135.99)
	
* Others majorly includes deferred tax (assets) on unrealised profit on inventory which is offset by deferred tax liabilities created on undistributed earnings of joint venture.
	
Deferred Tax Charge/ (Credit) for the period in Statement of Profit and Loss excludes exchange (gain)/ loss of H 7.36 Mn (31 March 
2024: H (12.18) Mn) on account of re-statement of period end deferred tax assets and liabilities.
(b)	Income Tax Expense
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year
 751.65 
 578.05 
Adjustments for current tax of prior years
 (2.22)
 (13.99)
Total current tax expense
 749.43 
 564.06 
300
301
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Deferred tax
Decrease/ (increase) in deferred tax assets
 (246.19)
 (44.84)
(Decrease)/ increase in deferred tax liabilities
 80.18 
 24.12 
Exchange difference on translation
 7.36 
 (12.18)
Total deferred tax expense
 (158.65)
 (32.90)
Total tax expense
 590.78 
 531.16 
Note: 38 Income Tax Expense (Contd..)
(c)	Reconciliation Of Tax Expense And The Accounting Profit Multiplied By Tax Rate:
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Profit before tax
 2,591.98 
 2,469.73 
Tax on above#
 751.00 
 631.67 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
	
Items not deductible in tax
 (35.64)
 (4.70)
	
Items on which tax rate is different
 2.22 
 0.36 
	
Adjustments for current tax of prior years
 (2.22)
 (13.99)
	
Tax on undistributed profit of joint venture
 (22.75)
 8.31 
	
Deferred tax asset created on unabsorbed business loss
 (91.24)
 - 
	
Others
 (10.59)
 (90.49)
Total tax expense
 590.78 
 531.16 
	
# The statutory tax rate applicable to various entities in the group range from 17.00% - 30.00% (31 March 2024: 17.00% - 30.00%) 
Note: 39 Fair Value Measurements
Financial Instruments By Category
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
FVTPL
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Amortised cost
Financial assets
Investments
-	
Mutual funds and perpetual bonds
 2,397.45 
 - 
 2,479.18 
 - 
Trade receivables
 - 
 5,010.47 
 - 
 4,472.93 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 1,142.95 
 - 
 863.17 
Other bank balances
 - 
 68.61 
 - 
 3.94 
Loans
 - 
 0.57 
 - 
 0.87 
Other financial assets
 - 
 79.78 
 - 
 69.88 
Derivative assets
 57.89 
 - 
 100.04 
 - 
Total financial assets
 2,455.34 
 6,302.38 
 2,579.22 
 5,410.79 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
 - 
 2,619.29 
 - 
 2,431.44 
Derivative liabilities
 40.47 
 - 
 15.40 
 - 
Trade payables 
 - 
 2,223.22 
 - 
 1,833.94 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 159.48 
 - 
 605.01 
Total financial liabilities
 40.47 
 5,001.99 
 15.40 
 4,870.39 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 39 Fair value measurements (contd..)
(i)	 Fair value hierarchy
	
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a) 
recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial 
statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Group has classified 
its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows 
underneath the table.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value - recurring fair value measurements
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
At 31 March 2025
Financial assets
Investments
- Mutual funds
 2,397.45 
 - 
 - 
 2,397.45 
Derivative financial assets
 - 
 57.89 
 - 
 57.89 
Total financial assets
 2,397.45 
 57.89 
 - 
 2,455.34 
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
 - 
 40.47 
 - 
 40.47 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 40.47 
 - 
 40.47 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value - recurring fair value measurements
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
At 31 March 2024
Financial assets
Investments
- Mutual funds
 2,479.18 
 - 
 - 
 2,479.18 
Derivative financial assets
 - 
 100.04 
 - 
 100.04 
Total financial assets
 2,479.18 
 100.04 
 - 
 2,579.22 
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities
 - 
 15.40 
 - 
 15.40 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 15.40 
 - 
 15.40 
	
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date. This includes mutual funds that are 
actively traded at NAVs.
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives, 
fixed maturity mutual funds) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as 
little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is 
generally the case for unlisted equity securities.
	
There are no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
302
303
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 39 Fair Value Measurements (contd..)
(ii)	Valuation technique used to determine fair value
	
(a)	
Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecasted cash flow information 
where applicable.
	
(b)	 Investments (Mutual funds) carried at fair value are generally based on available NAVs.
	
(c)	
Fair value of borrowings is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows. The carrying amounts of other borrowings 
with floating rate of interest are considered to be close to the fair value.
	
(d)	 The carrying amounts of remaining financial assets and liabilities are considered to be the same as their fair values.
	
(e)	
Management uses its best judgement in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However, there are inherent 
limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, for substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented 
below are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Group could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of 
respective dates. As such, fair value of financial instruments subsequent to the reporting dates may be different from the 
amounts reported at each reporting date.
(iii)	Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
	
Except as detailed in the following table, the management consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities 
recognised in the financial statements approximates their fair values.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Carrying amount
Fair value
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
 11.12 
 11.04 
 10.61 
 10.67 
Total financial liabilities
 11.12 
 11.04 
 10.61 
 10.67 
Note: 40 Financial Risk Management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (i.e. foreign currency risk, interest 
rate risk and price risk).
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk:
Particulars
Exposure arising from
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and 
other financial assets measured at amortised cost.
Diversification of bank deposits and investments. 
Entering into transactions with customers of 
repute / customers having sound financial position.
Liquidity risk
Financial liabilities that are settled by delivering 
cash or another financial asset.
Projecting cash flows and considering the level 
of liquid assets necessary to meet the liabilities.
Market risk – foreign exchange
Future commercial transactions and recognised 
financial assets and liabilities not denominated in 
Indian rupee (H)
Entering into forward contracts, options and 
interest rate swaps.
Market risk – interest rate
Long-term borrowings at variable rates.
Entering into derivative contracts such as 
interest rate swaps and currency swaps.
Market risk – security price risk
Investments in mutual funds & perpetual bonds.
Portfolio diversification.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 40 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
(A) Credit Risk
	
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to 
a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables and contract assets) 
including deposits with banks, investments and other financial instruments. The Group periodically monitors the recoverability and 
credit risks of its other financial assets including security deposits and other receivables.
	
i)	 Trade receivables
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed by the management subject to the Group's established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing. Outstanding customer receivables are 
regularly monitored.
	
	
At each reporting date the Company measures loss allowance for certain class of financial assets based on historical trend 
industry practice and the business environment in which the Group operates. The assumptions and estimates applied for 
determining credit loss are reviewed periodically. The company also uses lifetime of expected credit loss model based on 
provisional matrix for estimating the allowance for excepted credit losses.
	
ii)	 Financial instruments and cash deposits
	
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and investments is managed by the Group in accordance with the Group’s policy. 
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. 
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential 
failure to make payments.
	
	
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 
is the carrying amounts of trade receivables, investments, balances with bank and other financial assets.
(B) Liquidity Risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are 
settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
	
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic 
nature of the underlying businesses, Group’s treasury maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity position and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.
	
(i)	 Maturities of financial liabilities
	
	
The tables below analyse the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual maturities:
	
	
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows:
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
31 March 2025
Carrying 
Value
Contractual 
Cash Flows
Less than 
 1 year
1 - 3 
years
3 - 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivatives
Borrowings 
 2,619.29 
 2,619.29 
 1,628.64 
 390.07 
 340.58 
 260.00 
Lease liabilities 
 677.20 
 736.83 
 189.68 
 228.95 
 61.51 
 256.69 
Other financial liabilities
 1.99 
 1.99 
 1.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 2,223.22 
 2,223.22 
 2,223.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest payable on above borrowings**
 6.56 
 296.50 
 87.05 
123.84 
 72.25 
 13.36 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities
 5,528.26 
 5,877.83 
 4,130.58 
742.86 
474.34 
 530.05 
304
305
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
31 March 2025
Carrying 
Value
Contractual 
Cash Flows
Less than 
 1 year
1 - 3 
years
3 - 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Derivatives (net settled)
Foreign exchange forward/ option/ swap 
contracts
 40.47 
 40.47 
 36.59 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
Total derivative liabilities
 40.47 
 40.47 
 36.59 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
Note: 40 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
** Based on closing rates
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
31 March 2024
Carrying 
Value
Contractual 
Cash Flows
Less than 
 1 year
1 - 3 
years
3 - 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Non-derivatives
Borrowings 
 2,431.44 
 2,431.43 
 1,269.16 
 442.10 
 320.17 
 400.00 
Lease liabilities 
 648.71 
 709.58 
 165.26 
 209.92 
 82.99 
 251.41 
Other financial liabilities
 428.61 
 428.61 
 428.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 1,833.94 
 1,833.94 
 1,833.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest payable on above borrowings**
 7.81 
 394.08 
 102.25 
 157.21 
 97.61 
 37.01 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities
 5,350.51 
 5,797.64 
 3,799.22 
809.23 
500.77 
 688.42 
Derivatives (net settled)
Foreign exchange forward/ option/ swap 
contracts
 15.40 
 15.40 
 5.91 
 9.49 
 - 
 - 
Total derivative liabilities
 15.40 
 15.40 
 5.91 
 9.49 
 - 
 - 
	
	
** Based on closing rates
(C) Market Risk
	
(i)	 Foreign currency risk
	
	
The Group deals with foreign currency bank accounts, trade receivables, borrowings, trade payables and is therefore exposed 
to foreign exchange risk associated with exchange rate movement.
	
	
The Group operates internationally and portion of the business is transacted in several currencies and consequently the 
Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its sales in overseas and purchases from overseas suppliers in various 
foreign currencies. Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods, commodities and 
services in the respective currencies. The Group primarily uses derivatives to hedge its risk against foreign currency balances 
of borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables. Such exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising 
foreign exchange forward contracts and options. Further, the Group also has variable interest rate loan in foreign currency. To 
manage its risk against interest rate movements the Group has taken an interest rate swap. The Group also enter into derivative 
contracts to hedge forecast sales and purchase transactions using forward contracts.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 40 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
Foreign currency risk exposure
	
	
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk for major currencies at the end of the reporting period expressed in H (foreign currency amount multiplied by closing rate), 
are as follows:-
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
USD
GBP
BWP
SEK
ZAR
RUB
SGD
GHS
Financial assets
Trade receivables$
 - 
 1.94 
 - 
 117.06 
 2,004.08 
 - 
 - 
 283.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash & Cash equivalents
 - 
 0.66 
 0.03 
 0.55 
 195.88 
 0.10 
 - 
 181.57 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00^ 
 3.53 
Other advances
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Offset by derivatives:
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 - 
 (21.52)
 (155.14)
 (144.81)
 (1,042.10)
 - 
 - 
 (1,194.25)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency 
risk (assets)
 - 
(18.92)
 (155.11)
 (27.20)
 1,157.86 
 0.10 
 - 
 (729.53)
 -  0.01  0.00^ 
 3.53 
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
 - 
 (2.00)
 - 
 (178.11)
 (292.35)
 - 
 - 
 (371.33)
 - 
 0.83 
 - 
 (3.16)
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (37.79)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (167.32)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Offset by derivatives:
Foreign exchange forward contracts/ 
Foreign Currency option contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 196.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency 
risk (liabilities)
 - 
 (2.00)
 -  (178.11)
 (301.36)
 - 
 - 
 (371.33)
 -  0.83 
 - 
(3.16)
Net exposure
 - 
(20.92)
 (155.11)
 (205.31)
 856.50 
 0.10 
 - 
 (1,100.86)
 -  0.84  0.00^ 
 0.37 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
USD
GBP
BWP
SEK
ZAR
RUB
SGD
GHS
Financial assets
Trade receivables$
 - 
 5.02 
 - 
 143.71 
 1,483.68 
 - 
 581.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash & Cash equivalents
 1.08 
 0.56 
 0.03 
 0.52 
 130.50 
 0.06 
 0.00^ 
 17.02 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00^ 
 1.41 
Other advances
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Offset by derivatives:
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 - 
 (19.21)
 (55.14)
 (159.87)
 (1,797.56)
 - 
 - 
 (330.86)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency 
risk (assets)
 1.08 
(13.63)
(55.11)
 (15.64)
 (183.38)
 0.06  0.00^ 
 267.82 
 - 
 0.01  0.00^ 
 1.41 
306
307
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 40 Financial risk management (Contd..)
	
	
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group
	
	
$ The Company also has exposure for contract assets amounting to H Nil [31 March 2024: H 9.31 Mn (In EUR - H 0.23 Mn and in USD - H 9.08 Mn) ]
	
	
Sensitivity
	
	
The sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated financial instruments.
Particulars
Impact on profit before tax/ equity
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
USD
GBP
BWP
SEK
ZAR
RUB
SGD
GHS
As at 31 March 2025
H appreciates by 5%*
 - 
 1.05 
 7.76 
10.27
(42.82)
(0.00)^
(0.00)^
55.04
-
(0.00)^
 (0.00)^ 
 (0.02)
H depreciates by 5%*
 - 
 (1.05)
 (7.76)
(10.27)
42.82
0.00^
0.00^
(55.04)
-
0.00^
 0.00^ 
 0.02 
As at 31 March 2024
H appreciates by 5%*
 (0.05)
 0.68 
 2.76 
7.02
6.94
(0.00)^
(0.00)^
21.81
0.08
(0.00)^
 (0.00)^ 
 0.18 
H depreciates by 5%*
 0.05 
 (0.68)
 (2.76)
(7.02)
 (6.94)
0.00^
0.00^
(21.81)
(0.08)
0.00^
 0.00^ 
 (0.18)
	
	
* Holding all other variables constant
	
	
^Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Company
	
(ii)	Price risk
	
	
(a)	Exposure
	
	
	
Security price risk is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to change in market traded prices. The Group invests its surplus funds primarily 
in liquid schemes of mutual funds (debt instruments) which are categorised as low risk products from liquidity and interest rate perspectives. The carrying amount of 
the Group investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss at the end of the reporting period.[Refer Note 11].
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
CLP
AUD
CAD
EUR
USD
GBP
BWP
SEK
ZAR
RUB
SGD
GHS
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (205.60)
 (158.93)
 - 
 - 
 (704.07)
 (1.69)
 - 
 - 
 (5.03)
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (6.57)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (569.89)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Offset by derivatives:
Foreign exchange forward contracts/ 
Foreign Currency option contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80.89 
 779.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency 
risk (liabilities)
 - 
 - 
 -  (124.71)
 44.59 
 - 
 -  (704.07)
 (1.69)
 - 
 - 
(5.03)
Net exposure
 1.08 
(13.63)
(55.11)
 (140.35)
 (138.79)
 0.06  0.00^  (436.25)
 (1.69)
 0.01  0.00^ 
(3.62)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 40 Financial risk management (Contd..)
	
	
(b)	Sensitivity
	
	
	
The Group has invested in growth model of these securities as at the year end. The sensitivity analysis below is presented 
with reference to changes in NAV of these securities:-
Particulars
Impact on profit before tax/ equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
NAV - Increases by 1% *
 23.97 
 24.79 
NAV - Decreases by 1% *
 (23.97)
 (24.79)
	
	
	
* Holding all other variables constant
	
(iii)	Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s 
long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
	
	
The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings with variable rates, which expose the Group to cash flow 
interest rate risk.
	
	
The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk as 
defined in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market 
interest rates.
	
	
(a)	Interest rate risk exposure
	
	
	
On Financial Liabilities:
	
	
	
The exposure of the Group’s financial liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Variable rate borrowings#
 2,439.55 
 2,420.83 
Total borrowing
 2,439.55 
 2,420.83 
Particulars
Impact on profit before tax/ equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense rates – increase by 50 basis points (50 bps)*
 (12.20)
 (12.10)
Interest expense rates – decrease by 50 basis points (50 bps)*
 12.20 
 12.10 
	
	
	
* Long Term Borrowings amounting to H 179.50 Mn (31 March 2024: H 387.83 Mn) is covered through Interest rate swaps
	
	
(b)	Sensitivity
	
	
	
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/ lower interest expense from borrowings as a result of changes in interest rates as below:
	
	
	
* Holding all other variables constant
308
309
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 40 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
(iv)	Impact of hedging activities
	
	
(a)	Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:
	
	
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Type of hedge and risk
Nominal value
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio*
Weighted 
average 
strike rate for 
out-standing 
hedging 
instruments
Change in intrinsic 
value of out-
standing hedging 
instruments since 
inception of the 
hedges
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Cash flow hedge
Foreign exchange risk
(a)	 Foreign exchange 
forward contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Type of hedge and risk
Nominal value
Carrying amount 
of hedging 
instrument
Maturity 
date
Hedge 
ratio*
Weighted 
average 
strike rate for 
out-standing 
hedging 
instruments
Change in intrinsic 
value of out-
standing hedging 
instruments since 
inception of the 
hedges
Change in the 
value of hedged 
item used to 
determine hedge 
ineffectiveness
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Cash flow hedge
Foreign exchange risk
(a)	 Foreign exchange 
forward contracts
 330.86 
 - 
 8.05 
 - 
April 
2024 - 
July 2024
1:1
SEK 1:H8.06
 8.05 
 (8.05)
	
	
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
	
	
	
	
* The foreign currency forwards are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales (SEK); therefore, the hedge ratio is 1:1.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 40 Financial Risk Management (Contd..)
	
	
(b)	Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance
	
	
	
(i)	
As at 31 March 2025
Type of hedge
Change in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
Amount 
reclassified 
from cash flow 
hedging reserve 
to profit or loss
Line item 
affected in 
statement of 
profit and loss 
because of the 
reclassification
Cash flow hedge
(a)	 Foreign exchange risk
 - 
 - 
 7.70 
Other Income
Type of hedge
Change in the 
value of the 
hedging instrument 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income
Hedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognised in 
profit or loss
Amount 
reclassified 
from cash flow 
hedging reserve 
to profit or loss
Line item 
affected in 
statement of 
profit and loss 
because of the 
reclassification
Cash flow hedge
(a)	 Foreign exchange risk
 7.70 
 0.35 
 - 
Not Applicable
	
	
	
(ii)	 As at 31 March 2024
310
311
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 41 Capital Management
(a)	Risk management
	
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to:
 
 
safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits 
for other stakeholders, and
 
 
maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
	
The capital structure of the Group is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balance of key elements in order to meet 
its strategic and day-to-day needs. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic 
conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, long term 
borrowings and short term borrowings.
	
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
	
The Group’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors 
and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. The Group will take appropriate steps in order 
to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
(B) Dividends Paid And Proposed
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Equity shares
(i)	 Dividend declared and paid during the year
	
Final dividend paid during the year
 133.07 
 132.90 
(ii)	Proposed dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
	
The Directors have recommended the payment of H 2 per equity share of H 10 each 
for the year ended 31 March 2025 (31 March 2024 :H 2). This proposed dividend is 
subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
 133.07 
 133.07 
(C) Net Debt Reconciliation
	
This section sets out an analysis of debt and the movements in net debt for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
 1,142.95 
 863.17 
Non-current borrowings
 (990.65)
 (1,162.27)
Current borrowings
 (1,428.67)
 (1,009.52)
Current maturities of long term borrowings
 (199.97)
 (259.65)
Lease Liabilities
 (677.20)
 (648.71)
Net Derivative Liabilities
 17.42 
 84.64 
Interest accrued on long term borrowings
 (2.83)
 (5.28)
Interest accrued on short term borrowings *
 (3.73)
 (1.87)
Total
 (2,142.68)
 (2,139.49)
	
* Net-off interest receivable on account of subvention of interest of H Nil (31 March 2024: H 0.66 Mn)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Other assets
Liabilities from financing activities
Total
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
Non-
current 
borrowings
Current 
borrowings
Lease 
liabilities 
Net 
derivatives 
liabilities
Net debt as at 1 April 2024*
 863.17 
 (1,427.20)
 (1,011.39)
 (648.71)
 84.64 (2,139.49)
Cash flows
 254.96 
 199.03 
 (372.80)
 - 
 - 
 81.19 
Acquisition of lease
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (173.19)
 - 
 (173.19)
Principal repayment of lease
 - 
 - 
 - 
 183.42 
 - 
 183.42 
Interest expense
 - 
 (97.72)
 (99.97)
 (60.27)
 - 
 (257.96)
Interest paid
 - 
 100.83 
 98.11 
 60.27 
 - 
 259.21 
Payment on Derivative Settlement (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (21.74)
 (21.74)
Non-cash movements:
Unrealised foreign exchange
 24.82 
 30.75 
 (46.36)
 (43.31)
 1.85 
 (32.25)
Others Adjustments
 - 
 0.86 
 - 
 4.59 
 (51.16)
 (45.71)
Derivative Gain (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.84 
 3.84 
Net debt as at 31 March 2025*
 1,142.95 
 (1,193.45)
 (1,432.41)
 (677.20)
 17.43 (2,142.68)
Note: 41 Capital Management (Contd..)
	
*balances include interest accrued on borrowings
Particulars
Other assets
Liabilities from financing activities
Total
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
Non-
current 
borrowings
Current 
borrowings
Lease 
liabilities 
Net 
derivatives 
liabilities
Net debt as at 1 April 2023*
 457.21 
 (1,690.25)
 (1,416.51)
 (514.17)
 51.76 (3,111.95)
Cash flows
 462.45 
 268.35 
 400.31 
 - 
 - 
 1,131.11 
Recognised on adoption of IND AS 116
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (359.97)
 - 
 (359.97)
Acquisition of Lease
 - 
 - 
 - 
 129.12 
 - 
 129.12 
Principal repayment of lease
 - 
 (156.62)
 (76.61)
 (66.28)
 - 
 (299.51)
Interest expense
 - 
 159.77 
 92.78 
 66.28 
 - 
 318.83 
Interest paid
 - 
 - 
 (14.26)
 - 
 - 
 (14.26)
Subvention interest received
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (77.12)
 (77.12)
Payment on derivative 
settlement (net)
Unrealised foreign exchange
 (56.49)
 (8.45)
 2.90 
 96.18 
 (1.12)
 33.02 
Other Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 96.77 
 96.90 
Derivative Gain (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.35 
 14.35 
Net debt as at 31 March 2024*
 863.17 
 (1,427.20)
 (1,011.39)
 (648.71)
 84.64 (2,139.49)
	
*balances include interest accrued on borrowings
312
313
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 42 Segment Information
The Group is engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and installation of process equipment and accessories.On a review of 
all the relevant aspects including, in particular, the system of internal financial reporting to the Executive Committee, which is the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) and considering the economic characteristics of the operations, the Group is of the view that it 
operates in two manufacturing segments ‘Consumables’ and ‘Equipments’ used for the global mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk solids 
handling industry and are considered operating segments as per Ind AS 108 - 'Segment Reporting'. Equipment business represents the 
operations of a subsidiary Company - Tega Mcnally Minerals Limited ( formerly McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited).
1:	
Consumables - This part of business is engaged in manufacturing and distribution of specialized ‘critical to operate’ and recurring 
consumable products for the global mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk solids handling industry.
2:	
Equipments - This part of business is engaged in manufacturing and marketing of crushing, screening, grinding, material handling and 
mineral processing equipments with integrated customer support and after sales service.
Other Information
(i)	
Revenue from external customers along with breakup between India and arising outside India.
Region
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
India
 3,387.12 
 3,686.29 
Outside India
 12,999.39 
 11,240.85 
Total
 16,386.51 
 14,927.14 
(ii)	
Consolidated Statement of Segment Revenue, Results, Assets and Liabilities
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Segment Revenue:
	
Consumables
 14,301.24 
 12,905.15 
	
Equipments
 2,156.61 
 2,060.53 
Total
 16,457.85 
 14,965.68 
Less: Inter Segment Revenue
 (71.34)
 (38.54)
Total Segment Revenue from operations
 16,386.51 
 14,927.14 
Segment Results before interest, tax and depreciation:
	
Consumables
 3,148.69 
 2,981.00 
	
Equipments
 251.29 
 180.00 
Total
 3,399.98 
 3,161.00 
	
Less: Inter Segment Eliminations
 (1.89)
 (1.28)
Total Segment Results before interest, tax and depreciation
 3,398.09 
 3,159.72 
	
Add: Other income
 431.54 
 222.05 
	
Less: Finance costs
 269.04 
 319.54 
	
Less: Depreciation and amortisation expense
 1,013.32 
 636.82 
	
Add: Share of profit of joint venture
 44.71 
 44.32 
Profit before tax
 2,591.98 
 2,469.73 
	
Less: Tax Expenses
 590.78 
 531.16 
Profit for the year
 2,001.20 
 1,938.57 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Region
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
India
 3,623.02 
 3,587.42 
Outside India
 3,102.63 
 2,537.30 
Total
 6,725.65 
 6,124.72 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Segment Assets:
	
Consumables
 14,527.53 
 12,248.54 
	
Equipments
 3,410.71 
 3,582.15 
	
Unallocable Assets
 3,045.46 
 3,080.22 
	
Less: Inter Segment Eliminations
 (31.68)
 (9.52)
Total Assets
 20,952.02 
 18,901.39 
Segment Liabilities:
	
Consumables
 5,245.47 
 5,324.63 
	
Equipments
 1,668.83 
 1,599.37 
	
Unallocable Liabilities
 102.48 
 68.72 
	
Less: Inter Segment Eliminations
 (31.68)
 (9.52)
Total Liabilities
 6,985.10 
 6,983.20 
Note: 42 Segment Information (Contd..)
	
Notes:
	
a)	
Unallocable assets and Unallocable liabilities mainly represents investements and tax assets and liabilties.	
	
	
b)	
Investments in mutual funds and derivatives that are managed by the treasury department are not considered to be 
segment assets. 
(iii)	 Details of non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, capital work-in-progress, investment properties, 
intangible assets,intangible assets under development, goodwill on consolidation and other non current assets) based on geographical 
area is as below:	
	
Note: No Single customer represents 10% or more of the Group's total revenue during the year ended 31 March 2025 
and 31 March 2024.
Note: 43 Earnings Per Share
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Computation of Earnings for equity Shares
A
Net profit attributable to the owners of the Holding company
 2,001.20 
 1,938.57 
B
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year other than which are dilutive
 6,65,35,492 
 6,64,50,328 
C
Effect of potential ordinary shares on employee stock options outstanding
 - 
 1,90,525 
D=(B+C) Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year(dilutive)
 6,65,35,492 
 6,66,40,853 
Earnings per equity share
(Face Value H 10/- per share)
A/B
Earnings per share - Basic (H)
 30.08 
 29.17 
A/D
Earnings per share - Diluted (H)
 30.08 
 29.09 
314
315
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the entity
Place of 
business/ 
country of 
incorporation
Relationship
Accounting 
method
Carrying amount
As at 
March 31, 
2025
As at 
March 31, 
2024
Quoted 
fair value
% of 
ownership 
interest
Hosch Equipment (India) 
Limited
India
Joint Venture
Equity 
method
 221.29 
 311.69 
@
50%
Total equity accounted 
investments
 221.29 
 311.69 
Name of the entity
 Principal place 
of Business/ 
Country of 
Incorporation 
Ownership Interest held by the 
group
Ownership interest  held by the 
non controlling Interest
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
%
%
%
%
Subsidiaries:
Tega Industries, Inc.
USA
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Industries Australia Pty. Ltd.
Australia
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
Canada
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Technicos Ltda
Brazil
99.99%
99.99%
0.01%
0.01%
Tega Holdings Pte Limited
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega McNally Minerals Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Subsidiaries of a subsidiary:
Tega Investments South Africa 
Proprietary Limited
South Africa
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Industries Africa Proprietary Limited
South Africa
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
Australia
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Losugen Pty Ltd
Australia
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Industries Chile SpA
Chile
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Edoctum S.A.
Chile
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Industries Peru S.A.C#
Peru
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
Tega Industries Ghana Limited**
Ghana
100.00%
 - 
 - 
-
Note: 44 Interest In Other Entities
(a)	Subsidiaries
	
The group’s subsidiaries at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital 
consisting solely of equity shares that are held directly by the group, and the proportion of ownership interests held equals the voting 
rights held by the group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
#from 23rd January 2024
**Inc as on 4 January 2025
(b)	Non-Controlling Interest (NCI)
	
As noted from the above table, the non-controlling interests are not material to the group.
(c)	Interests In Joint Venture
	
Set out below are the details of the joint venture of the group as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024. The entity listed below has 
share capital consisting solely of equity shares. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business, 
and the proportion of ownership interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights held.
	
@ Unlisted equity, no quoted price available
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Summarised balance sheet
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current assets
	
Cash and cash equivalents
 9.67 
 9.77 
	
Other assets
 229.15 
 404.78 
Total current assets
 238.82 
 414.55 
Total non-current assets
 17.88 
 25.10 
Current liabilities
	
Financial liabilities 
 21.39 
 23.30 
	
Other liabilities
 23.92 
 18.56 
Total current liabilities
 45.31 
 41.86 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
 0.54 
 1.01 
Other liabilities
 0.12 
 5.23 
Total non-current liabilities
 0.66 
 6.24 
Net assets
 210.73 
 391.55 
Particulars
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue
 279.43 
 294.45 
Interest income
 0.78 
 2.18 
Depreciation and amortisation
 2.21 
 3.96 
Finance costs
 0.25 
 0.51 
Income tax expense
 26.04 
 30.36 
Profit from continuing operations
 89.42 
 88.63 
Other comprehensive income/ (loss)
 (0.23)
 (0.09)
Total comprehensive income
 89.19 
 88.54 
Dividends Paid
 270.00 
 22.50 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contingent liabilities – joint venture
 16.78 
 16.78 
Total Contingent liabilities
 16.78 
 16.78 
Note: 44 Interest In Other Entities (Contd..)
	
(i)	 Contingent liabilities in respect of joint venture
	
(ii)	Summarised financial information for joint venture
	
	
The tables below provide summarised financial information for that joint venture which is material to the group. The information 
disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint venture and not the Holding Company's 
share of those amounts.
	
	
Note- Hosch Equipment (India) Limited is having financial and technical collaboration with M/s Hosch (GB) Limited U.K., 
pioneers in the manufacture of scrapers, having its registered office and manufacturing facilities at West Bengal, India
	
	
Summarised statement of profit and loss
316
317
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 44 Interest In Other Entities (Contd..)
	
	
Reconciliation to carrying amounts
Particulars
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening net assets
 391.54 
 325.50 
Profit for the year
 89.42 
 88.63 
Other comprehensive income
 (0.23)
 (0.09)
Dividends paid
 (270.00)
 (22.50)
Closing net assets
 210.73 
 391.54 
Group’s share in %
50%
50%
Group’s share in H
 105.33 
 195.73 
Goodwill
 115.96 
 115.96 
Carrying amount
 221.29 
 311.69 
	
(iii)	Share of Profit
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Share of profits from joint venture
 44.71 
 44.32 
Total share of profits from joint venture
 44.71 
 44.32 
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Share of other comprehensive income from joint venture
 (0.12)
 (0.04)
Total share of other comprehensive income from joint venture
 (0.12)
 (0.04)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i) Contingent liabilities - Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt
Disputed Excise Duty
 4.37 
 4.37 
Disputed Service Tax
 1.30 
 1.30 
Disputed Income Tax
 85.30 
 66.38 
Disputed Sales Tax
 4.36 
 4.36 
Disputed Goods & Service Tax
 5.61 
 - 
Civil Suits filed by Contractor for Asansol Factory (Including Interest)
 - 
 2.10 
	
(iv)	Share of Other Comprehensive Income
	 (v)	
The joint venture has entered into a 36 months leave and license agreement with Tega Industries Limited and TPW Engineering 
Limited,for sub-leasing of office space at Godrej Waterside,Salt Lake,Kolkata and leasing of office space at New Alipore,Kolkata 
respectively.The agreement is pending for registration under the Registration Act, 1908
Note: 45 A Contingent Liabilities (To The Extent Not Provided For)
In respect of the contingent liabilities mentioned in (i) above, pending resolution of the respective proceedings, it is not practicable for 
the Group to estimate the timings of cash outflows, if any. The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above 
contingent liabilities.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 45 B Commitments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for 
 26.70 
 113.19 
Note: 45 C The Company has evaluated the impact of the Supreme Court Judgment in case of "Vivekananda Vidyamandir And 
Others Vs The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner (II) West Bengal" and the related circular (Circular No. C-I/1(33)2019/Vivekananda 
Vidya Mandir/284) dated 20 March 2019 issued by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation in relation to non-exclusion of certain 
allowances from the definition of "basic wages" of the relevant employees for the purposes of determining contribution to provident fund 
under the Employees' Provident Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. While further clarification on applicability and operation of 
the Order is awaited from the Provident Fund authorities, based on estimates by the management, the impact of the Order is not expected 
to be material on the consolidated financial statements. The management will continue to assess the impact of further developments 
relating to retrospective application of the Supreme Court's judgement considering the additional guidance as and when issued by the 
statutory authorities.
Note: 46 Related Party Transactions
Related Party Disclosure Pursuant To Ind As 24 Prescribed Under The Act 
Details of related parties:
Description of relationship
Names of related parties
Ultimate Holding Company
Nihal Fiscal Services Private Limited
Others with whom transaction taken 
place during the year or previous year
Fellow Subsidiaries
Trafalgar Consulting International Company Pvt Ltd.
MM Rosewood Buildinfra Pvt. Ltd. 
Maple Orgtech (India) Limited (upto 18 September 2024)
MM Aqua Technologies Limited (upto 18 September 2024)
Joint Venture
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited 
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
Madan Mohan Mohanka -Chairman and Non Executive Non Independent Director 
(erstwhile Chairman and Whole-time Director till 31st January 2025)
Mehul Mohanka - Managing Director & CEO
Syed Yaver Imam - Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (erstwhile Whole Time 
Director till 31st May 2024)
Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha - Independent Director
Madhu Dubhashi - Independent Director 
Ashwani Maheshwari - Independent Director 
Anand Sen - Independent Director (wef. 14th November 2024)
Sharad Kumar Khaitan- Chief Financial Officer (wef. 10 July 2023)
Manjuree Rai - Company Secretary
Relatives of KMP
Manju Mohanka
Manish Mohanka
Post Employment Benefit Plan
Tega India Ltd Employes Gratuity Fund
Tega India & Associate Companies Super Annuation Fund
Tega Industries (SEZ) Ltd Gratuity Trust
Tega Industries (SEZ) Ltd Super Annuation Fund
318
319
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Description of relationship
Names of related parties
Entities in which KMP/ Relatives of KMP 
can exercise significant influence
TPW Engineering Limited 
Marudhar Food and Credit Limited (Merged with Nihal Fiscal Services Private 
Limited wef. 14 June 2023)
Maple Orgtech (India) Limited (wef. 18 September 2024)
MM Aqua Technologies Limited (wef. 18 September 2024)
Note: 46 Related Party Transactions (Contd..)
Note: Related parties have been identified by the Management.
Details of related party transactions for the year ended 31 March 2025 and balances outstanding as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Ultimate 
Holding 
Company
Joint 
Venture
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Post 
Employment 
Benefit Plan
KMP
Relatives 
of KMP
Entities in 
which KMP/ 
Relatives 
of KMP can 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Total
Purchase of goods
 - 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.14 
Sale of goods & service
 - 
 11.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.32 
 12.10 
Recovery of expenses
 - 
 0.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.71 
 1.86 
Re-imbursement of expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.05 
Sales commission income
 - 
 22.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.32 
Contribution to post employment 
benefit plan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14.30 
Director comission
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.16 
 - 
 - 
 8.16 
Director sitting fees
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.58 
 - 
 - 
 1.58 
Dividend received
 - 
 135.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 135.00 
Dividend paid
 74.26 
 - 
 - 
 10.76 
 14.56 
 - 
 99.58 
Rent/ Service Charges/ Hire 
Charges received
 - 
 3.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.90 
Rent/ Service Charges/ Hire 
Charges paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.17 
 0.55 
 1.72 
Business Support Service Income
 - 
 9.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.64 
 10.50 
Refund of Security Deposit (Given) 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.57 
 0.57 
Interest Expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
Loans and advances given/ 
(recovered) (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balances outstanding at the 
end of the year
Trade Receivables
 - 
 1.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 2.06 
 3.32 
Advances/ Deposit /Other 
Receivables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
 0.13 
Trade Payables
 - 
 0.11 
 - 
 1.09 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
 1.25 
Provisions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77.45 
Financial Liabilities
 - 
 0.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 46 Related party Transactions (Contd..) 
Details of related party transactions for the year ended 31 March 2024 and balances outstanding as at 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Ultimate 
Holding 
Company
Joint 
Venture
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Post 
Employment 
Benefit Plan
KMP
Relatives 
of KMP
Entities in 
which KMP/ 
relatives of 
KMP can 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Total
Purchase of goods
 - 
 0.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
Sale of goods & service
 - 
 14.69 
 5.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.29 
Recovery of expenses
 - 
 1.87 
 0.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.97 
 7.50 
Re-imbursement of expenses
 - 
 - 
 0.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.63 
Sales commission income
 - 
 24.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.27 
Contribution to post employment 
benefit plan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 42.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 42.85 
Dividend received
 - 
 11.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.25 
Dividend paid
 74.26 
 - 
 - 
10.76
14.56
 99.58 
Rent/ Service Charges/ Hire Charges 
income
 - 
 3.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.88 
Rent/ Service Charges/ Hire Charges 
expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.12 
 4.26 
 5.38 
Business Support Service Income
 - 
 9.94 
 0.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.86 
Security deposits given/ (recovered) (net)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.06 
 - 
 0.06 
Balances outstanding at the end 
of the year
Trade Receivables
 - 
 1.10 
 0.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.52 
Security Deposit
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.17 
 0.57 
 0.74 
Trade Payables
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.60 
 0.70 
Other Payables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.16 
Provisions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.41 
Financial Liabilities
 - 
 0.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
Other terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Transactions related to dividend were on the same terms and conditions that applied to all shareholders. All other transactions were made 
on normal commercial terms and conditions and at market rates.All outstanding balances are unsecured and repayable in cash.
320
321
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Short term employee benefits
 117.88 
 126.15 
Post employment benefits
 6.79 
 6.32 
Other long term employee benefits
 0.34 
 0.65 
Total employee benefits expense
 125.01 
 133.12 
Perquisites
 2.14 
 1.81 
Sitting fees
 1.52 
 1.35 
Commission/ Incentive to Directors 
 8.93 
 14.75 
Retainership fees
 2.63 
 15.76 
Total other expenses
 15.22 
 33.67 
Note: 46 Related party Transactions (Contd..) 
Remuneration to KMP
During the year, the Group has recognised an amount of H 140.23 Mn (31 March 2024: H 166.79 Mn) as remuneration to key managerial 
personnel. The details of such remuneration is as below:
Note: Refer note 44(c) for details of share of profit of the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 and investment outstanding as 
at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 relating to Joint Venture.
Note: 47 Share-Based Payments
(a) The share-based payment plan is an employee option plan of the Holding company. The options are equity settled options.
(b) Set Out Below Is The Summary Of Options
Particulars
Year ended 31 March 2025
Year ended 31 March 2024
Average 
exercise price/ 
share in H 
No. of options
Average 
exercise price/ 
share in H 
No. of options
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
 39.38 
 2,96,288 
Granted during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the year
 - 
 - 
 30.77 
 1,81,380 
Expired during the year
 - 
 - 
 52.96 
 1,14,908 
Forfeited during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
Vested and exercisable
 - 
 - 
(c)	Share Options Outstanding At The End Of The Year Have The Following 
Exercise Period And Exercise Prices:
Grant
Grant Date
Exercise period
Exercise Price/ 
Share in H
Share Options as 
on 31 March 2025
Share Options as 
on 31 March 2024
Grant I
04-Mar-11
2 years from the date of listing
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant II
04-Mar-11
2 years from the date of listing
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant III
16-Nov-12
2 years from the date of listing
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant IV
02-Jul-13
2 years from the date of listing 
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant V
28-Jan-15
2 years from the date of listing 
76.92
 - 
 - 
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2025 was H Nil (31 
March 2024: H 981.23)
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 47 Share-Based Payments (Contd..)
(d)	Contractual Life Of Options
Grant
Grant Date
Expiry Date
Exercise Price/ 
Share in H
Share Options as 
on 31 March 2025
Share Options as 
on 31 March 2024
Grant I
04-Mar-11
13-Dec-23
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant II
04-Mar-11
13-Dec-23
30.77
 - 
 - 
Grant III
16-Nov-12
13-Dec-23
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant IV
02-Jul-13
13-Dec-23
76.92
 - 
 - 
Grant V
28-Jan-15
13-Dec-23
76.92
 - 
 - 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at end of period 
 (in years)
-
-
(e)	Fair Value Of Options Granted
	
No grants were issued during the year.
(f)	Expense Arising From Share-Based Payment Transactions
	
Total expenses arising from share-based payment transactions recognised in profit or loss as part of employee benefit expense were 
Nil (31 March 2024: Nil).
(g)	The existing Employee Stock Option Scheme 2011 has been aligned with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2021 and the same was approved in Board Resolution dated 11 February 2022 and shareholder’s 
resolution vide postal ballot dated 3 April 2022. The Holding Company has received in-principle approval from the stock exchange 
for the said scheme. During the current year Nil (31 March 2024: 181,380) equity shares has been exercised.
322
323
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 48 Additional Information Required by Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013:
Particulars
Net Assets (total assets 
minus total liabilities)
Share in Profit or (Loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income 
(OCI)
Share in total comprehensive 
income (OCI)
Name of the Entity
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount 
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or (Loss)
Amount 
As % of 
Consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
Consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
Parent
Tega Industries Limited
31 March 2025
93.66%
 13,080.10 
87.91%
 1,759.24 
(0.68%)
 (1.23)
80.58%
 1,758.01 
31 March 2024
94.85%
 11,305.09 
65.25%
 1,265.01 
(1.92%)
 7.35 
81.79%
 1,272.36 
Subsidiaries - Foreign
1
Tega Industries, Inc.
31 March 2025
1.79%
 250.71 
0.74%
 14.83 
 - 
 - 
0.68%
 14.83 
31 March 2024
1.93%
 230.02 
0.66%
 12.82 
 - 
 - 
0.82%
 12.82 
2
Tega Industries Australia Pty. ltd.
31 March 2025
0.69%
 95.70 
(0.81%)
 (16.16)
 - 
 - 
(0.74%)
 (16.16)
31 March 2024
0.94%
 112.12 
0.76%
 14.78 
 - 
 - 
0.95%
 14.78 
3
Tega Industries Ghana Limited**
31 March 2025
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
31 March 2024
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
4
Tega Industries Canada Inc.
31 March 2025
1.40%
 194.88 
1.63%
 32.67 
 - 
 - 
1.50%
 32.67 
31 March 2024
1.40%
 167.11 
3.90%
 75.61 
 - 
 - 
4.86%
 75.61 
5
Tega Do Brasil Servicos Technicos Ltda
31 March 2025
0.04%
 5.12 
0.13%
 2.58 
 - 
 - 
0.12%
 2.58 
31 March 2024
0.02%
 2.84 
0.06%
 1.11 
 - 
 - 
0.07%
 1.11 
6
Tega Holdings Pte Limited
31 March 2025
30.61%
 4,275.43 
(6.37%)
 (127.54)
 - 
 - 
(5.85%)
 (127.54)
31 March 2024
35.81%
 4,267.39 
10.72%
 207.80 
 - 
 - 
13.36%
 207.80 
7
Tega Holdings Pty Ltd
31 March 2025
1.98%
 276.96 
(1.04%)
 (20.80)
 - 
 - 
(0.95%)
 (20.80)
31 March 2024
2.51%
 298.96 
(1.12%)
 (21.79)
 - 
 - 
(1.40%)
 (21.79)
8
Losugen Pty Ltd
31 March 2025
2.20%
 306.80 
2.14%
 42.96 
 - 
 - 
1.97%
 42.96 
31 March 2024
2.23%
 266.30 
3.46%
 67.00 
 - 
 - 
4.31%
 67.00 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Net Assets (total assets 
minus total liabilities)
Share in Profit or (Loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income 
(OCI)
Share in total comprehensive 
income (OCI)
Name of the Entity
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount 
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or (Loss)
Amount 
As % of 
Consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
Consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
9
Tega Industries Chile SpA*
31 March 2025
11.44%
 1,598.06 
11.02%
 220.50 
0.05%
 0.10 
10.11%
 220.60 
31 March 2024
10.58%
 1,260.41 
13.82%
 267.84 
(0.01%)
 0.05 
17.22%
 267.89 
10 Tega Investments South Africa Proprietary 
Limited
31 March 2025
0.31%
 42.79 
(0.04%)
 (0.74)
 - 
 - 
(0.03%)
 (0.74)
31 March 2024
0.34%
 40.41 
(0.02%)
 (0.38)
 - 
 - 
(0.02%)
 (0.38)
11 Tega Industries Africa Proprietary Limited
31 March 2025
8.34%
 1,164.27 
11.49%
 229.93 
 - 
 - 
10.54%
 229.93 
31 March 2024
7.26%
 864.68 
4.40%
 85.37 
 - 
 - 
5.49%
 85.37 
Subsidiaries - Indian
12 Tega McNally Minerals Limited
31 March 2025
15.41%
 2,152.25 
9.09%
 181.97 
-6.92%
 (12.50)
7.77%
 169.47 
31 March 2024
16.64%
 1,982.79 
0.22%
 4.34 
2.16%
 (8.28)
(0.25%)
 (3.94)
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries
31 March 2025
0.00%^
 0.00^ 
0.00%^
 0.00^ 
 0.00%^ 
 0.00^ 
0.00%^
 0.00^ 
31 March 2024
 0.00%^ 
 0.00^ 
 0.00%^ 
 0.00^ 
 0.00%^ 
 0.00^ 
 0.00%^ 
 0.00^ 
Joint venture - Indian
1
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited
31 March 2025
1.51%
 210.73 
2.23%
 44.71 
(0.07%)
 (0.12)
2.04%
 44.59 
31 March 2024
3.29%
 391.55 
2.29%
 44.32 
0.01%
 (0.04)
2.85%
 44.28 
Adjustment arising out of Consolidation
31 March 2025
-69.36%
 (9,686.88)
-18.14%
 (362.95)
107.60%
 194.35 
-7.73%
 (168.60)
31 March 2024
-77.80%
 (9,271.48)
-4.40%
 (85.26)
99.76%
 (382.07)
-30.05%
 (467.33)
Total 31 March 2025
100.00%
13,966.92
100.00%
2,001.20
100.00%
180.60
100.00%
2,181.80
Total 31 March 2024
100.00%
11,918.19
100.00%
1,938.57
100.00%
 (382.99)
100.00%
1,555.58
Note: 48 Additional Information Required by Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013: (Contd..)
^ Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group.
* includes information related to Tega Industries Chile SpA and its subsidiaries.
**Incorporated as on 4th January, 2025.
324
325
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 49 Reconciliation Of Quarterly Bank Returns
(a)	Holding Company
	
For the year ended 31 March 2025
	
The Holding Company has filed quarterly returns/ statements with the banks in lieu of the sanctioned working capital facilities which 
are in agreement with the books of accounts. Quarterly returns/ statements for the quarter ended 31 March 2025 is yet to be filed 
by the Holding Company, as the same is not yet due.
	
For the year ended 31 March 2024
	
The Holding Company has filed quarterly returns/ statements with the banks in lieu of the sanctioned working capital facilities which 
are in agreement with the books of accounts. Quarterly returns/ statements for the quarter ended 31 March 2024 is yet to be filed 
by the Holding Company, as the same is not yet due.
(b)	Tega Mcnally Minerals Limited (Formerly Known Mcnally Sayaji Engineering 
Limited), A Subsidiary Company
	
For the year ended 31 March 2025
	
The Company has filed quarterly returns/ statements with the banks in lieu of the sanctioned working capital facilities which are in 
agreement with the books of accounts. Quarterly returns/ statements for the quarter ended 31 March 2025 is yet to be filed by the 
Company, as the same is not yet due.
	
For the year ended 31 March 2024
	
The Company has filed quarterly returns/ statements with the Banks in lieu of the sanctioned working capital facilities which are in 
agreement with the books of accounts other than those as set out below:
Quarter
Particulars
Name of the bank
Amount as 
per books of 
account
Amount as 
reported in 
the quarterly 
returns/ 
statements
Amount of 
difference
Reason for 
difference
30 June 2023
Inventories
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 591.21 
 591.24 
 (0.03)
Refer note 
below
30 June 2023
Receivables
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 683.09 
 689.97 
 (6.88)
30 September 2023
Inventories
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 733.06 
 733.06 
 - 
30 September 2023
Receivables
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 642.04 
 676.61 
 (34.57)
31 December 2023
Inventories
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 704.84 
 704.84 
 - 
31 December 2023
Receivables
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 675.64 
 685.26 
 (9.62)
31 March 2024
Inventories
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 695.65 
 695.65 
 - 
31 March 2024
Receivables
 Working Capital Lenders* 
 717.91 
 725.17 
 (7.26)
	
* Axis Bank Limited and DBS Limited are represented as Working Capital Lenders.
	
The Bank returns were prepared and filed before the completion of all financial statement closure activities including Ind AS related 
adjustments/reclassifications, as applicable, which led to these differences between the books of accounts and the bank returns which 
were based on provisional books of accounts.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 50 Additional Regulatory Information
(a)	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 ('Code') relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment received 
Indian Parliament approval and Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India and 
subsequently on 13 November 2020 draft rules were published and invited for stakeholders’ suggestions. However, the date on 
which the Code will come into effect has not been notified. The Group will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect 
and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes effective.
(b)	 The Group has no transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 other than transactions entered into by a subsidiary which is as reproduced below:
	
As at 31 March 2025:
Name of the struck off company
Nature of 
transaction 
with struck off 
company
Transactions 
during the year 
March 31, 2025
Balance 
outstanding 
as at 
March 31, 2025
Relationship 
with the struck 
off companies
Siddhardha Constructions (Pvt) Ltd.
Trade receivables*
 - 
 0.06 Not Applicable
Name of the struck off company
Nature of 
transaction 
with struck off 
company
Transactions 
during the year 
March 31, 2024
Balance 
outstanding 
as at 
March 31, 2024
Relationship 
with the struck 
off companies
Unitech Cement Pvt Ltd
Trade receivables*
 - 
 0.03 Not Applicable
W A Equipment Private Limited
Trade receivables*
 - 
 0.36 Not Applicable
Jain Mineral Industries Private Limited
Advance from 
Customer
 - 
 0.09 Not Applicable
	
* Provision already made against the above trade receivables of H 0.06 Mn
	
As at 31 March 2024:
	
* Provision already made against the above trade receivables of H 0.36 Mn
(c)	 The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority 
or other lender in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve Bank of India.
(d)	 There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
(e)	 The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
(f)	 The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous year.
(g)	 The Group has complied with the number of layers as prescribed in section 2(89) of the Companies Act read with Companies 
(Restriction on number of layers) Rules, 2017.
(h)	 The Group has not revalued its Property, plant and equipment (including Right of Use Assets) or intangible assets or both during the 
current or previous year.
(i)	
The Holding Company has raised funds on short term and long term basis from banks and financial institutions, and have been applied 
for the purpose for which they have been obtained.
326
327
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 50 Additional Regulatory Information (Contd..)
(j)	
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) to any other person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the understanding (whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise) that the Intermediary shall
	
(i)	
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons/ entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Group (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
	
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(k)	 The Group has not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the group shall:
	
(i)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(l)	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a new requirement for companies under the proviso to Rule 3(1) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules 2021 requiring companies, which uses 
accounting software for maintaining its books of account, shall use only such accounting software which has a feature of recording 
audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an edit log of each change made in the books of account along with the date when 
such changes were made and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
	
The Holding Company and its subsidiary and joint venture, which are incorporated in India and whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, have used an accounting software for maintaining their books of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has been operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software except for instances mentioned below:
	
a.	
In case of Holding Company and 1 joint venture, the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility was not enabled at the 
database level to log any direct data changes for certain accounting software.
	
b.	
In case of 1 subsidiary company, the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility has not been enabled throughout the year.
	
Further, there are no instance of audit trail feature being tampered where such feature has been enabled. Furthermore, the audit trail 
has been preserved by the Holding Company and such subsidiary and joint venture as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention where such feature has been enabled.
(m)	Figures for the previous period have been regrouped/ reclassified wherever necessary to conform to current year’s classification. The 
impact of such reclassification/ regrouping is not material to these financial statements.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
as at and for the Year ended 31 March 2025
(All amounts in H million, unless otherwise stated)
Note: 51 Details Of Research And Development Expenditure 
Recognised As An Expense
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2025
Year ended 
31 March 2024
Employee benefits expense
 53.36 
 48.23 
Travelling expenses 
 10.61 
 6.91 
Product development
 0.46 
 0.75 
Patent cost
 4.09 
 3.94 
Total
 68.52 
 59.83 
Signature to Note 1 to 51 above.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Firm Registration Number: 001076N/N500013
Chartered Accountants
Anamitra Das	
Madan Mohan Mohanka	
Mehul Mohanka
Partner	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 062191	
DIN: 00049388	
DIN: 00052134
Place : Gurugram	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
	
Manjuree Rai	
Sharad Kumar Khaitan
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No. A12858
	
Place : Kolkata	
Place : Kolkata
	
Date : 15 May 2025	
Date : 15 May 2025
329
Notice
328
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the 49th (Forty-Ninth) Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of Tega Industries 
Limited (the “Company”) will be held on Friday, September 
19, 2025, at 11:00 A.M. (IST), through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”), to transact the 
following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone 
Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, 
together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditors thereon.
2.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Syed Yaver Imam 
(DIN: 00588381), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment.
3.	
To declare Final Dividend of H 2/- (Rupees Two) per equity 
share twenty percent (20%) of face value of H 10/- (Rupees 
Ten) each for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4.	 Ratification of the remuneration 
payable to the Cost Auditors
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory modification(s) and/or 
re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the 
remuneration of H 4,00,000/- (Rupees Four Lacs only) per 
annum excluding applicable tax plus reimbursement of 
travelling and other out-of-pocket expenses payable to 
M/s. Mani & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
000004), appointed as the Cost Auditors of the Company 
by the Board of Directors for conducting audit of the cost 
records of the Company and other miscellaneous work 
related to it for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2026, be 
and is hereby ratified.”
5.	 Appointment 
of 
Secretarial 
Auditors
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
 	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 24A of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations) read with 
Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made 
thereunder and other applicable provisions (including any 
statutory modification(s) and /or re-enactment(s) thereof, 
for the time being in force), based on the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, approval 
of the Members be and is accorded for the appointment of 
Mrs. Sweety Kapoor, Practising Company Secretary 
(Membership No. FCS 6410, Certificate of Practice No. 5738) 
holding a Peer Review Certificate No. 6742/2025, as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company to carry out the audit of 
the secretarial and related records of the Company and issue 
the Secretarial Audit Report for a term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years commencing from Financial Year 2025-26 till Financial 
Year 2029-30, based on such terms and conditions as may 
be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors and the 
Secretarial Auditor.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors, 
be and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds and 
things and execute all such documents, instruments and 
writings as may be required and to delegate all or any of 
its powers herein conferred to any Director or Director(s) 
as may be considered necessary to give effect to the 
aforesaid resolution.”
6.	 Approve the remuneration payable 
to Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka, 
(DIN: 00049388) Chairman and 
Non-Executive Director of the 
Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following resolution 
as a Special Resolution:
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
	
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the provisions 
of Regulation 17 (6) (ca) and other applicable provisions 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations) read with the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (including 
any statutory modification(s) and/or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force), pursuant to the recommendation 
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the 
Board of Directors, approval of the Members, be and is 
hereby accorded for payment of remuneration to Mr. Madan 
Mohan Mohanka (DIN: 00049388) as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director and Chairman of the Company, 
details whereof set out in the Explanatory Statement, being 
an amount exceeding 50% (fifty percent) of the total annual 
	
By the Order of the Board of Directors
	
	
Sd/-
Place: Kolkata	
	
	
Manjuree Rai
Date: May 15, 2025	
   	
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
Membership No. A12858
remuneration payable to all the Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company, within the overall limit of 2% (two percent) of 
the net profits of the Company for the Financial Year 2025-
26, as approved by the members through Postal Ballot on 
January 26, 2025.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors, 
be and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds and 
things and execute all such documents, instruments and 
writings as may be required and to delegate all or any of 
its powers herein conferred to any Director or Director(s) 
as may be considered necessary to give effect to the 
aforesaid resolutions.”
330
331
Notice
NOTES:
1.	
The relevant Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) setting out material 
facts concerning the business with respect to Item No. 4, 5 
and 6 is annexed hereto and forms part of this Notice.
2.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), inter-alia, vide 
its General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020 
and 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, followed by General 
Circular Nos. 20/2020 dated May 05, 2020, and subsequent 
circulars issued in this regard, the latest being 09/2024 
dated September 19, 2024 (collectively referred to as “MCA 
Circulars”) has permitted the holding of the AGM through 
Video Conferencing (“VC”) or through Other Audio-Visual 
Means (“OAVM”), without the physical presence of the 
Members at a common venue.
	
Further, Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), 
vide its Circulars dated May 12, 2020, January 15, 2021, May 
13, 2022, January 05, 2023 and October 03, 2024 (“SEBI 
Circulars”) and other applicable circulars issued in this regard, 
have provided relaxations from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
3.	
In compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, 
SEBI Listing Regulations and MCA Circulars, the 49th AGM 
of the Company is being held through VC/OAVM on Friday, 
September 19, 2025, at 11:00 A.M. (IST). The proceedings of 
the AGM will be deemed to be conducted at the Registered 
Office of the Company situated at Godrej Waterside, Tower-
II, Office No. 807, 8th Floor, Block DP-5, Salt Lake Sector V, 
Bidhannagar, Kolkata – 700091.
4.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a member entitled to 
attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy 
to attend and vote on their behalf and the proxy need not 
be a member of the Company. Since this AGM is being held 
pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC/OAVM, physical 
attendance of members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, 
the facility for appointment of proxies by the members will not 
be available for this AGM and hence the proxy form, attendance 
slip, and route map of AGM are not annexed to this Notice.
5.	
Institutional/Corporate Members (i.e. other than Individuals, 
HUF, NRI, etc.), are required to send a scanned copy 
(PDF/JPG Format) of their respective Board or governing 
body Resolution/Authorisation etc., authorising their 
representative to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM on 
their behalf and to vote through remote e-Voting. The said 
Resolution/Authorisation shall be sent by e-mail on the 
Scrutinizer’s e-mail address at aklabhcs@gmail.com with a 
copy marked to compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com.
6.	
The Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM shall 
be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Act.
7.	
The Company has engaged the services of MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited (“MUFG”) (formerly Link Intime India 
Private Limited) for providing facility for voting through 
remote e-voting, participation in the AGM through VC/OAVM 
facility and e-voting during the AGM. The procedure for 
participating in the meeting through VC/OAVM is explained 
at Note No. 33 below.
8.	
Procedure for registration of email address: Notice of the 
49th AGM and other documents are being sent through 
electronic mode to those Members whose email addresses 
are registered with the Company and/or Company’s Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) and/or Depositories. 
Therefore, those Members, whose email addresses are not 
registered with the Company and/or Company’s RTA or with 
their respective Depository Participant/s (“DPs”), and who 
wish to receive the Notice and the Annual Report and all 
other communications sent by the Company, from time to 
time, can get their email address registered by following the 
steps as given below:-
	
a. 	
For the Members holding shares in physical form, please 
send scan copy of a signed request letter mentioning 
your folio number, complete address, email address to 
be registered along with scanned self- attested copy of 
the PAN and any document (such as Driving License, 
Passport, Bank Statement, AADHAAR) supporting 
the registered address of the Member, by email to 
the Company’s email address at compliance.officer@
tegaindustries.com or to the email address of the 
Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”), 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (“MUFG”) (formerly 
Link Intime India Private Limited) at rnt.helpdesk@
in.mpms.mufg.com
	
b. 	
For the Members holding shares in demat form, please 
update your email address through your respective 
Depository Participant/s.
	
The physical copy of the Notice along with the Annual Report 
shall be made available to the Members who request for the 
same in writing to the Company.
9.	
SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN) by every participant in the securities market. 
Members holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, 
requested to submit PAN details to their depository 
participants, with whom they are maintaining their demat 
accounts. Members holding shares in physical form can 
submit their PAN details to MUFG. Members may register 
their PAN themselves with the RTA through the link: https://
web.in.mpms.mufg.com/helpdesk/Service_Request.html.
10.	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, pertaining 
to their name, postal address, e-mail address, telephone/
mobile numbers, PAN, registering of nomination, power of 
attorney registration, Bank Mandate details, etc., to their DPs 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
in case the shares are held in electronic form and to the RTA 
in prescribed Form ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI 
Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 
dated May 07, 2024.
11.	
Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/CIR/2022/8 dated January 
25, 2022, has mandated the Listed Companies to issue 
securities in demat form only while processing service 
requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim 
from Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/ Exchange of 
securities certificate; Endorsement; Sub-division/Splitting of 
securities certificate; Consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios; and Transposition. In view of this and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and for ease of 
portfolio management, Members holding shares in physical 
form are requested to consider converting their holdings to 
dematerialised form. Members can contact the Company or 
MUFG for assistance in this regard.
12.	
Accordingly, Members are requested to make service 
requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR-4. 
For Transmission cases, Members are requested to submit 
Form ISR-5 as specified vide SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/
HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated May 07, 2024.
13.	
Remote e-voting will commence at 09:00 A.M. (IST) on 
Monday, September 15, 2025, and will end at 05:00 P.M. (IST) 
on Thursday, September 18, 2025, when remote e-voting will 
be blocked by MUFG.
14.	
Voting rights will be reckoned on the paid-up value of 
shares registered in the name of the Members on Friday, 
September 12, 2025 (cut-off date). Only those Members 
whose names are recorded in the Register of Members 
of the Company or in the Register of Beneficial Owners 
maintained by the Depositories as on the cut-off date will be 
entitled to cast their votes by remote e-voting or e-voting 
during the AGM. Those who are not Members on the cut-off 
date should accordingly treat this Notice as for information 
purposes only. Any Non-Individual Member or Member 
holding securities in physical form who acquires shares of 
the Company and becomes a Member of the Company 
after the dispatch of the Notice and holding shares as on 
the cut-off date i.e. Friday, September 12, 2025, may obtain 
the login details by registering for e-voting facility of MUFG. 
However, if the Member is already registered with MUFG 
for e-voting, then the existing User ID and password can be 
used for remote e-voting. The detailed process is laid down 
in the Instructions to remote e-voting and joining the Annual 
General Meeting at Note No. 33.
	
Additionally, Individual Members holding shares in demat 
mode, who acquire shares of the Company and becomes a 
Member of the Company after dispatch of the Notice and 
holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e, Friday, September 
12, 2025 can register directly with the Depository/ their 
respective Depository Participant/s (“DPs”) or through their 
demat account, to access e-voting page of MUFG, without 
having to register again with MUFG for participating in the 
e-voting process. The detailed procedure in this regard has 
been explained in Note No. 33.
15.	
In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of the names as per the 
Register of Members of the Company will be entitled to vote 
at the meeting.
16.	
Nomination facility: As per the provisions of Section 72 of 
the Act, the facility for making nomination is available to the 
Members in respect of the shares held by them. Members 
who have not yet registered their nomination are requested 
to register the same by submitting Form No. SH-13. If a 
Member desires to opt-out or cancel the earlier nomination 
and record a fresh nomination, the Member may submit the 
same in Form ISR-3 or Form SH-14, as the case may be.
17.	
All the aforementioned forms, can be downloaded from 
the Company’s website at https://www.tegaindustries.com/
investor#agm-tab or the RTA’s website at www.in.mpms.
mufg.com. Members are requested to submit the said form 
to their DPs in case the shares are held in electronic form 
and to MUFG at rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com in case 
the shares are held in physical form, quoting their folio no(s).
18.	
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 15, 
2025, have recommended payment of final dividend of H 
2/- (Rupees Two) per equity share 20% (twenty percent) of 
face value of H 10/-(Rupees Ten) each for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025.The record date for the purpose of 
final dividend is September 08, 2025. The dividend so 
recommended by the Board, if declared by the members at 
the Annual General Meeting, shall be paid within statutory 
time limit to those members (a) whose names appear 
as beneficial owners at the end of the business hours on 
September 08, 2025 in the list of beneficial owners to be 
provided by NSDL and CDSL in respect of shares held in 
electronic (demat) form and (b) whose names appear in the 
Register of Members of the Company on September 08, 
2025, after giving effect to valid transmission/ transposition 
requests lodged with the Company as of the close of business 
hours on September 08, 2025.
19.	
Pursuant to Finance Act 2020, dividend income is taxable 
in the hands of shareholders w.e.f. April 01, 2020 and the 
Company is required to deduct tax at source from dividend 
paid to shareholders at the prescribed rates. For the 
prescribed rates for various categories, the shareholders are 
requested to refer to the Finance Act, 2020 and amendments 
thereof. The shareholders are requested to update their 
PAN with the Company/ MUFG (in case of shares held in 
physical mode) and depositories (in case of shares held 
in demat mode).
332
333
Notice
	
A Resident individual shareholder with PAN and who 
is not liable to pay income tax can submit a yearly 
declaration in Form No. 15G/15H, to avail the benefit of 
non-deduction of tax at source, by email to the Company 
at  compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com or  to MUFG 
at rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com or by clicking the URL 
https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/formsreg/submission-of-
form-15g-15h.html. Shareholders are requested to note that 
in case their PAN is not registered, the tax will be deducted 
at a higher rate of 20%.
	
Non-resident shareholders can avail beneficial rates under 
tax treaty between India and their country of residence, 
subject to providing necessary documents i.e. No Permanent 
Establishment and Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax 
Residency Certificate, Form 10F, any other document which 
may be required to avail the tax treaty benefits by sending 
an email to compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com or to 
MUFG at rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com or by clicking the 
URL https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/formsreg/submission-of-
form-15g-15h.html.
	
The aforesaid declarations and documents need to 
be submitted by the shareholders by on or before 
September 08, 2025.
20.	
SEBI has made it mandatory for all listed companies to use 
the Bank Account details furnished by the Depositories and 
the Bank Account details maintained by the RTA for payment 
of Dividend through Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) to 
investors wherever ECS and Bank details are available.
21.	
Shareholders holding the shares in electronic mode may 
please note that their dividend would be paid through 
National Electronic Clearing System (NECS) or Electronic 
Clearing Services (ECS) at the available RBI locations or 
NEFT. The dividend would be credited to their bank account 
as per the mandate given by the Shareholders to their 
Depository Participant(s). Where either the bank details 
such as Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (‘MICR’) and 
Indian Financial System Code (‘IFSC’), amongst others, that 
are required for making electronic payment are not available 
or the electronic payment instructions have failed or have 
been rejected by the bank, companies or their Registrars 
and Transfer Agents may use physical payment instruments 
for making cash payments to the investors. Companies shall 
mandatorily print the bank account details of the investors 
on such payment instruments.
22.	
Effective April 1, 2024, SEBI has mandated that the shareholders, 
who hold shares in physical mode and whose folios are not 
updated with any of the KYC details [viz., (i) PAN (ii) Choice 
of Nomination (iii) Contact Details (iv) Mobile Number (v) 
Bank Account Details and (vi) Signature], shall be eligible to 
get dividend only in electronic mode. Accordingly, payment of 
final dividend, subject to approval at the AGM, shall be paid 
to physical holders only after the above details are updated 
in their folios. Shareholders are requested to complete their 
KYC by writing to the Company’s RTA.
23.	
Relevant documents referred to in the accompanying notice 
or explanatory statement, the Register of Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel and their shareholding, maintained 
under Section 170 of the Act, and the Register of Contracts 
or Arrangements in which directors are interested, 
maintained under Section 189 of the Act read with rules 
issued thereunder will be available for inspection by the 
members in physical form  at the registered office on all 
working days, except Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, 
from 11:00 A.M. (IST) to 01:00 P.M. (IST) up to the date of 
the AGM or in electronic mode at the commencement of 
the meeting and shall remain open and accessible to the 
members during the continuance of the meeting upon log-in 
to the MUFG e-voting system at https://instavote.linkintime.
co.in. Members seeking to inspect such documents can send 
an email to compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com.
24.	
Non-resident Indian Members are requested to inform 
MUFG, immediately of:
	
a)	
Change of their residential status on return to India for 
permanent settlement.
	
b)	
Particulars of their bank account maintained in India 
with complete name, branch, account type, account 
number and address of the bank with pin code number, 
if not furnished earlier.
25.	
Attention of the Members is invited that as per section 124(5) 
of the Act read with Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016 (‘IEPF Rules, 2016’), the dividend remaining unpaid 
or unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years  in 
Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company is required to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”), constituted by the Central Government. After 
transfer of unpaid / unclaimed dividend amount to IEPF, no 
claim lies against the Company. Further, all the shares on 
which dividends remain unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 
seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred to the 
demat account of the IEPF Authority as notified by the MCA.
	
Further, the provisions also provide the manner of transfer 
of the unpaid and unclaimed dividends to the IEPF after they 
remain Unpaid / Unclaimed for 7 Years and the manner of 
transfer of those shares to IEPF for which dividend has not 
been claimed by the shareholders for seven consecutive years.
	
Details of shareholders with their unpaid/unclaimed 
dividends for the FY 2023-24 has been uploaded on the 
website of the Company at https://www.tegaindustries.com/
images/media/01-Details_of_unpaid_dividend_for_the_
Financial_Year_2023-24.pdf. Members should check their 
dividends from the website and if they find that their name is 
in unpaid / unclaimed list, then they should immediately write 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
to the Company’s email address at compliance.officer@
tegaindustries.com or to the email address of the Company’s 
RTA, at  rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com. for claiming their 
unpaid / unclaimed dividends.
26.	
Details of Director retiring by rotation / seeking 
appointment/ re-appointment at this Meeting is provided in 
the “Annexure” to the Notice.
27.	
A recorded transcript of the meeting shall be uploaded on 
the website of the Company and the same shall also be 
maintained in the safe custody of the Company.
28.	
The Board has appointed Mr. Atul Kumar Labh, Practicing 
Company Secretary (Membership No. FCS 4848, CP 
No. 3238) as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote 
e-voting process and voting process at AGM in a fair and 
transparent manner.
29.	
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of 
voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast during the AGM, 
thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting 
and prepare, within two working days of conclusion of AGM, 
a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast 
in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person 
authorised by him in writing, who shall countersign the same.
30.	
The Results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall 
be placed on the Company’s website www.tegaindustries.
com and on the website of MUFG immediately after the 
result is declared by the Chairman; and results shall also be 
communicated to the Stock Exchanges.
31.	
Any member desirous of receiving any information/
clarification on Financial Statements or operations of the 
Company is requested to forward his/her queries to the 
Secretarial Department of the Company at compliance.
officer@tegaindustries.com at least 10 working days prior 
to AGM, so that required information can be made available 
at the AGM specifying his/her name along with Demat 
account details.
32.	
Members are requested to contact MUFG, contact person 
Mr. Kuntal Mustafi [Phone: (033) 69066200, Email ID: rnt.
helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com]if they have any queries or for 
redressal of their complaints or Ms. Manjuree Rai, Company 
Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company, at the 
Registered Office of the Company [Phone: (033) 40939000; 
Email: compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com].
33.	
Instructions for remote e-Voting and joining the 
Annual General Meeting are as follows:
	
The remote voting period begins at 09:00 A.M. (IST) 
Monday, September 15, 2025 and will end at 05:00 
P.M. (IST) on Thursday, September 18, 2025. During 
this period, members of the company, holding shares either 
in physical form or in dematerialised form as of the cut-
off date of  Friday, September 12, 2025, may cast their vote 
electronically. The remote e-voting module shall be disabled 
by MUFG for voting thereafter. A person who is not a 
member as of the cut-off date should treat this notice for 
informational purposes only.
	
Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 09, 2020, under Regulation 
44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, listed entities are required 
to provide remote e-voting facilities to their shareholders in 
respect of all shareholder resolutions.
	
Currently, there are multiple e-voting service providers 
(ESPs) providing e-voting facilities to listed entities in India. 
This necessitates registration on various ESPs and the 
maintenance of multiple user IDs and passwords by the 
shareholders. To increase the efficiency of the voting process, 
pursuant to a public consultation, it has been decided to 
enable e-voting for all the demat account holders, by way of 
a single login credential through their demat accounts or the 
websites of depositories or depository participants. Demat 
account holders would be able to cast their vote without 
having to register again with the ESPs, thereby not only 
facilitating seamless authentication but also enhancing the 
ease and convenience of participating in the e-voting process.
Login 
method 
for 
Individual 
shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode is given below:
Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with NSDL
METHOD 1 - Individual shareholders 
registered with NSDL IDeAS facility
Shareholders who have registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
a)	
Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com and click on “Beneficial 
Owner” icon under “Login”.
b)	
Enter User ID and Password. Click on “Login”
c)	
After successful authentication, you will be able to see 
e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on 
“Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services.
d)	
Click on “MUFG Intime” or “evoting link displayed alongside 
Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote 
website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period
OR
Shareholders who have not registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
a)	
To register, visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com and select 
“Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click on https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
b)	
Proceed with updating the required fields.
334
335
Notice
c)	
Post successful registration, users will be provided with Login 
ID and password.
d)	
After successful login, you will be able to see e-Voting services 
under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” 
under e-Voting services.
e)	
Click on “MUFG Intime” or “evoting link displayed alongside 
Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote 
website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period.
METHOD 2 - Individual shareholders directly 
visiting the e-voting website of NSDL
a)	
Visit URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
b)	
Click on the “Login” tab available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section.
c)	
Enter User ID (i.e., your sixteen-digit demat account number 
held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen.
a)	
Post successful authentication, you will be re-directed 
to NSDL depository website wherein you will be able to 
see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on 
“Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services.
b)	
Click on “MUFG Intime” or “evoting link displayed alongside 
Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote 
website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period.
Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with CDSL
METHOD 1 – Individual shareholders 
registered with CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility
Shareholders who have registered/ opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility:
a)	
Visit 
URL: 
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Home/
Login or www.cdslindia.com.
b)	
Click on New System Myeasi Tab
c)	
Login with existing my easi username and password
d)	
After successful login, user will be able to see e-voting option. 
The evoting option will have links of e-voting service providers 
i.e., MUFG Intime, for voting during the remote e-voting period.
e)	
Click on “MUFG Intime” or “evoting link displayed alongside 
Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote 
website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period.
OR
Shareholders who have not registered for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility:
a)	
To register, visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/
Registration/EasiRegistration 
/ 
https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasitoken/Registration/EasiestRegistration
b)	
Proceed with updating the required fields.
c)	
Post registration, user will be provided username and password.
d)	
After successful login, user able to see e-voting menu.
e)	
Click on “MUFG Intime” or “evoting link displayed alongside 
Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote 
website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period.
METHOD 2 - Individual Shareholders 
directly visiting the e-voting website of 
CDSL
a)	
Visit URL: https://www.cdslindia.com
b)	
Go to e-voting tab.
c)	
Enter Demat Account Number (BO ID) and PAN No. and 
click on “Submit”.
d)	
System will authenticate the user by sending OTP on 
registered Mobile and Email as recorded in Demat Account
e)	
After successful authentication, click on “MUFG Intime” or 
“evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you 
will be redirected to InstaVote website for casting the vote 
during the remote e-voting period.
Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with Depository Participant
Individual shareholders can also login using the login credentials 
of your demat account through your depository participant 
registered with NSDL / CDSL for e-voting facility.
a)	
Login to DP website
b)	
After Successful login, user shall navigate through 
“e-voting” option.
c)	
Click on e-voting option, user will be redirected to NSDL 
/ CDSL Depository website after successful authentication, 
wherein user can see e-voting feature.
d)	
After successful authentication, click on “MUFG InTime” or 
“evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you 
will be redirected to InstaVote website for casting the vote 
during the remote e-voting period.
Login method for shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode / Non-Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode
Shareholders holding shares in physical mode / Non-Individual 
Shareholders holding securities in demat mode as on the cut-off 
date for e-voting may register for InstaVote as under:
a)	
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Shareholders who have not registered for 
INSTAVOTE facility:
b)	
Click on “Sign Up” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab and register 
with your following details:
	
A.	
User ID:
	
NSDL demat account – User ID is 8 Character DP ID 
followed by 8 Digit Client ID.
	
CDSL demat account – User ID is 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.
	
Shareholders holding shares in physical form – User ID is 
Event No + Folio Number registered with the Company.
	
B.	
PAN:
	
Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN)
	
(Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with 
the Depository Participant (DP)/ Company shall use the 
sequence number provided to you, if applicable).
	
C.	
DOB/DOI:
	
Enter the Date of Birth (DOB) / Date of Incorporation 
(DOI) (As recorded with your DP / Company - in DD/
MM/YYYY format)
	
D.	
Bank Account Number:
	
Enter your Bank Account Number (last four digits), as 
recorded with your DP/Company.
	
*Shareholders holding shares in NSDL form, shall provide ‘D’ above
	
**Shareholders holding shares in physical form but have not recorded ‘C’ and 
‘D’, shall provide their Folio number in ‘D’ above
	
Set the password of your choice
	
(The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least 
one special Character (!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least 
one alphabet and at least one capital letter).
	
Enter Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code
	
Click “Submit” (You have now registered on InstaVote).
Shareholders who have registered for 
INSTAVOTE facility:
c)	
Click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
	
A.	
User ID: Enter your User ID
	
B.	
Password: Enter your Password
	
C.	
Enter Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code
	
D.	
Click “Submit”
d)	
Cast your vote electronically:
	
A.	
After successful login, you will be able to see the 
“Notification for e-voting”.
	
B.	
Select ‘View’ icon.
	
C.	
E-voting page will appear.
	
D.	
Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by 
selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ (If you 
wish to view the entire Resolution details, click on the 
‘View Resolution’ file link).
	
E.	
After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, 
click on ‘Submit’.
	
	
A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to 
confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to change your 
vote, click on ‘No’ and accordingly modify your vote.
Guidelines for institutional shareholders 
(“Custodian / corporate body / mutual 
fund”)
STEP 1 – Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund Registration
a)	
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in.
b)	
Click on “Sign Up” under “Custodian / Corporate 
Body/ Mutual Fund”
c)	
Fill up your entity details and submit the form.
d)	
A declaration form and organization ID is generated and sent 
to the Primary contact person email ID (which is filled at 
the time of sign up). The said form is to be signed by the 
Authorised Signatory, Director, Company Secretary of the 
entity & stamped and sent to insta.vote@linkintime.co.in.
e)	
Thereafter, Login credentials (User ID; Organisation ID; 
Password) is sent to Primary contact person’s email ID. (You 
have now registered on InstaVote)
STEP 2 – Investor Mapping
a)	
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and login with 
InstaVote Login credentials.
b)	
Click on “Investor Mapping” tab under the Menu Section
c)	
Map the Investor with the following details:
	
A.	
‘Investor ID’ –
	
	
i. 	
NSDL demat account – User ID is 8 Character 
DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID i.e., 
IN00000012345678
	
	
ii.	
CDSL demat account – User ID is 16 Digit 
Beneficiary ID.
	
B.	
‘Investor’s Name - Enter Investor’s Name as 
updated with DP.
	
C.	
‘Investor PAN’ - Enter your 10-digit PAN.
	
D.	
‘Power of Attorney’ - Attach Board resolution or 
Power of Attorney.
	
	
*File Name for the Board resolution/ Power of Attorney shall be – DP 
ID and Client ID or 16 Digit Beneficiary ID. Further, Custodians and 
Mutual Funds shall also upload specimen signatures.
	
E.	
Click on Submit button. (The investor is now mapped 
with the Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual 
Fund Entity). The same can be viewed under the 
“Report Section”.
336
337
Notice
STEP 3 – Voting through remote e-voting
The corporate shareholder can vote by two methods, during the 
remote e-voting period.
METHOD 1 - Votes Entry
a)	
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and login with 
InstaVote Login credentials.
b)	
Click on “Votes Entry” tab under the Menu section.
c)	
Enter the “Event No.” for which you want to cast vote.
	
Event No. can be viewed on the home page of InstaVote 
under “On-going Events”.
d)	
Enter “16-digit Demat Account No.” for which you 
want to cast vote.
e)	
Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by 
selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ (If you wish 
to view the entire Resolution details, click on the ‘View 
Resolution’ file link).
f)	
After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, 
click on ‘Submit’.
	
A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm 
your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to change your vote, click on 
‘No’ and accordingly modify your vote.
OR
METHOD 2 - Votes Upload
a)	
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and login with 
InstaVote Login credentials.
b)	
After successful login, you will be able to see the 
“Notification for e-voting”.
c)	
Select “View” icon for “Company’s Name / Event number”.
d)	
E-voting page will appear.
e)	
Download sample vote file from “Download Sample 
Vote File” tab.
f)	
Cast your vote by selecting your desired option 'Favour / 
Against' in the sample vote file and upload the same under 
“Upload Vote File” option.
g)	
Click on ‘Submit’. ‘Data uploaded successfully’ message 
will be displayed.
	
(Once you cast your vote on the resolution, you will not be 
allowed to modify or change it subsequently).
Helpdesk:
Shareholders holding securities in physical 
mode / non-individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode:
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual 
Shareholders holding securities in demat mode facing any 
technical issue in login may contact INSTAVOTE helpdesk by 
sending a request at enotices@in.mpms.mufg.com or contact on: - 
Tel: 022 – 4918 6000.
Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode:
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode may 
contact the respective helpdesk for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e., NSDL and CDSL.
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in 
login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.
co.in or call at : 022 - 4886 7000
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in 
login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@
cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 
1800 22 55 33
Forgot Password:
Shareholders holding securities in physical 
mode / non-individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode:
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual 
Shareholders holding securities in demat mode have forgotten the 
USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both then the shareholder can 
use the “Forgot Password” option available on: https://instavote.
linkintime.co.in
 
 
Click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
 
 
Click “forgot password?”
 
 
Enter User ID, Organisation ID and Enter Image Verification 
code (CAPTCHA).
 
 
Click on “SUBMIT”.
In case shareholders have a valid email address, Password will be 
sent to his / her registered e-mail address. Shareholders can set 
the password of his/her choice by providing information about the 
particulars of the Security Question and Answer, PAN, DOB/DOI, 
Bank Account Number (last four digits) etc. The password should 
contain a minimum of 8 characters, at least one special character 
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
(!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least 
one capital letter.
User ID:
NSDL demat account – User ID is 8 Character DP ID followed by 
8 Digit Client ID.
CDSL demat account – User ID is 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.
Shareholders holding shares in physical form – User ID is Event No 
+ Folio Number registered with the Company.
In case Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund has forgotten 
the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both then the shareholder 
can use the “Forgot Password” option available on: https://
instavote.linkintime.co.in
•	
Click on ‘Login’ under “Custodian / Corporate Body/ 
Mutual Fund” tab
•	
Click “forgot password?”
•	
Enter User ID, Organization ID and Enter Image Verification 
code (CAPTCHA).
•	
Click on “SUBMIT”.
In case shareholders have a valid email address, Password will be 
sent to his / her registered e-mail address. Shareholders can set 
the password of his/her choice by providing information about the 
particulars of the Security Question and Answer, PAN, DOB/DOI 
etc. The password should contain a minimum of 8 characters, at 
least one special character (!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least 
one alphabet and at least one capital letter.
Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with NSDL/ CDSL has 
forgotten the password:
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode have 
forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both, then 
the Shareholders are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at above mentioned depository/ 
depository participants website.
 
 
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential.
 
 
For shareholders/ members holding shares in physical 
form, the details can be used only for voting on the 
resolutions contained in this Notice.
 
 
During the voting period, shareholders/ members can login 
any number of time till they have voted on the resolution(s) 
for a particular “Event”.
Process and manner for attending the 
annual general meeting through InstaMeet:
Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instameet.
in.mpms.mufg.com. and click on “Login”.
 
 
Select the “Company Name” and register with your 
following details:
 
 
Select Check Box Demat Account No. / Folio No. / PAN
 
 
Shareholders holding shares in NSDL/ CDSL demat 
account shall select the check box - Demat Account 
No. and enter the 16-digit demat account number.
 
 
Shareholders holding shares in physical form shall select 
check box – Folio No. and enter the Folio Number 
registered with the company.
 
 
Shareholders shall select check box – PAN and 
enter 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN). 
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN 
with the Depository Participant (DP)/ Company 
shall use the sequence number provided by MUFG 
Intime, if applicable.
 
 
Mobile No: Mobile No. as updated with DP is displayed 
automatically. Shareholders who have not updated their 
Mobile No with the DP shall enter the mobile no.
 
 
Email ID: Email Id as updated with DP is displayed 
automatically. Shareholders who have not updated their 
email ID with the DP shall enter the email ID.
 
 
Click  “Go to Meeting” – You are now registered for 
InstaMeet, and your attendance is marked for the meeting.
Instructions for Shareholders to speak 
during the Annual General Meeting through 
InstaMeet:
i.	
Shareholders who would like to express their views/ ask 
questions during the meeting may register themselves as a 
speaker by sending their request in advance at least 7 days 
prior to meeting mentioning their name, demat account 
number/folio number, email id and mobile number at 
compliance.officer@tegaindustries.com. The shareholders 
who do not wish to speak during the AGM but have queries 
may send their queries in advance 10 days prior to meeting 
mentioning their name, demat account number/folio 
number, email id and mobile number at compliance.officer@
tegaindustries.com. These queries will be replied to by the 
company suitably by email.
ii.	
Those shareholders who have registered themselves 
as a speaker will be allowed to express their views/ask 
questions during the meeting. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of speakers depending on the 
availability of time.
338
339
Notice
iii.	
Shareholders will get confirmation of registration as speaker 
on first cum first serve basis depending upon the limitation 
of number of maximum speakers.
iv.	
Shareholders will receive “speaker serial number” from 
MUFG once they mark attendance for the meeting.
v.	
Other shareholders who do not get registered as speaker, 
may ask questions to the panelist, via active chat-board 
during the meeting.
vi.	
Please remember speaker serial number and start your 
conversation with panelist by switching on video mode and 
audio of your device.
Shareholders are requested to speak only when moderator of the 
meeting/ management announce the name and serial number of 
the speaker for speaking.
Instructions for shareholders/ members 
to vote during the annual general meeting 
through InstaMeet:
Once the electronic voting is activated by the scrutinizer during 
the meeting, Shareholders/ members who have not exercised their 
vote through the remote e-voting can cast the vote as under:
i.	
On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link for e-voting 
“Cast your vote”.
ii.	
Enter your 16-digit Demat Account No. / Folio No. and 
OTP (received on the registered mobile number/registered 
email Id) received during registration for InstaMeet and 
click on ‘Submit’.
iii.	
After successful login, you will see “Resolution Description” 
and against the same the option “Favour/ Against” for voting.
iv.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option i.e. “Favour/
Against” as desired. Enter the number of shares (which 
represents no. of votes) as on the cutoff date under 
‘Favour/Against’.
v.	
After selecting the appropriate option i.e. favour/against 
as desired and you have decided to vote, click on “Save”. A 
confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm 
your vote, click on “Confirm”, else to change your vote, click 
on “Back” and accordingly modify your vote.
vi.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not 
be allowed to modify or change your vote subsequently.
vii.	
Shareholders/Members, who will be present in the Annual 
General Meeting through InstaMeet facility and have not 
cast their vote on the resolutions through remote e-voting 
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be 
eligible to vote through e-voting facility during the meeting. 
Shareholders/Members who have voted through Remote 
e-voting prior to the Annual General Meeting will be eligible 
to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting 
through InstaMeet. However, they will not be eligible to vote 
again during the meeting.
viii.	 Shareholders/Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through their PC/Tablets/ Laptops connected through 
broadband for a better experience.
ix.	
Shareholders/Members are required to use internet with a 
good speed (preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to avoid 
any disturbance during the meeting.
x.	
Please note that Shareholders/Members connecting from 
Mobile Devices or Tablets or through laptops connecting 
via Mobile Hotspot may experience audio/visual loss due to 
fluctuation in their network. It is therefore recommended to 
use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate any kind of 
aforesaid glitches.
xi.	
In case Shareholders/ Members have any queries regarding 
login/ e-voting, they may send an email to instameet@
in.mpms.mufg.com or contact on Tel. No.: 022 – 4918 
6000 / 4918 6175.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
(PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013)
The following Explanatory Statement sets out all the material facts 
relating to Item No. 4, 5, & 6 of the accompanying Notice.
Item No. 4
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act and 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (“the Rules”), the 
Company is required to appoint a cost auditor to audit the cost 
records of the Company.
The Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee have approved the appointment of M/s Mani & Co., 
Cost Accountants, Firm Registration No. 000004 as Cost Auditors 
of the Company for the Financial Year 2025-26. The remuneration 
of the Cost Auditors has been fixed at H 4,00,000/- (Rupees Four 
Lacs only) per annum excluding applicable tax plus reimbursement 
of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred, if any, in connection with 
the cost audit. The remuneration of the cost auditors is required 
to be subsequently ratified by the Members, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and Rule 14 of the Rules.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are concerned or interested in the 
Resolution as set out in Item No. 4 of this Notice.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as set out in 
Item No. 4 of this Notice for the approval of the Members.
Item No. 5
The Company is required to appoint a Secretarial Auditor, in 
accordance with the provisions of Regulation 24A of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations) 
read with Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) 
and the Rules framed thereunder, to carry out the audit of the 
secretarial and related records of the Company and issue a 
Secretarial Audit Report.
The Board and the Audit Committee, recommends the 
appointment of Mrs. Sweety Kapoor, Practicing Company 
Secretary, bearing Membership No. FCS 6410 and Certificate of 
Practice No. 5738, and Peer Review Certificate No. 6742/2025. In 
this regard it is to be noted, that she satisfies the eligibility criteria 
as laid down in Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
her appointment has been recommended for a term of 5 (five)
consecutive years commencing from Financial Year 2025-26 till 
Financial Year 2029-30.
Pursuant to Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
details are as under:
Profile: Mrs. Sweety Kapoor is a Practicing Company Secretary 
having Membership No. FCS 6410 and C.P. No. 5738, holding a 
Peer Review Certificate. She has experience of more than 20 years 
in the area concerned with Secretarial and Legal Compliances of 
listed as well as unlisted Companies and is also engaged in providing 
Compliance Related Services. Apart from that, she is empaneled 
as Peer Reviewer by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).
Term of appointment: Proposed to be appointed for a term 
of 5 (five) consecutive years, to conduct Secretarial Audit from 
Financial Year 2025-26 till Financial Year 2029-30.
The proposed fees to be paid to the Secretarial Auditors is 
H1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lac only) per annum. The said fees 
excludes applicable taxes and out-of-pocket expenses.
The Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee shall be authorised to revise the fees as deemed 
necessary, from time to time.
The Company has received her consent to be appointed as a 
Secretarial Auditor, if appointed and she has confirmed that she 
has not incurred any disqualifications and the same is within the 
limit as prescribed by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(ICSI). It is to be noted that her scope of work and remuneration, 
will be as decided by mutual agreement between her and the 
Board of Directors.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are concerned or interested in the 
Resolution as set out in Item No. 5 of this Notice.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as set out in 
Item No. 5 of this Notice for the approval of the Members.
Item No. 6
Pursuant to Regulation 17 (6) (ca) and other applicable provisions 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations), the approval of 
Members by special resolution shall be obtained every financial 
year, in which the annual remuneration payable to a single Non-
Executive Director exceeds 50% (fifty percent) of the total annual 
remuneration payable to all Non-Executive Director, giving details 
of the remuneration thereof.
340
341
Notice
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka has been re-designated as Non- 
Executive Non-Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Company by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 
December 19, 2024, based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee upon the relinquishment 
of the position of Whole time Director, for a period of 5 (five) 
years with effect from February 01, 2025.
Further, the Members of the Company. through Postal 
Ballot dated January 26, 2025 approved the re-designation 
of Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka as Non- Executive Non-
Independent Director and Chairman of the Company. The 
remuneration, payable to Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka, consists of 
H 8,35,000/- (Rupees Eight Lakhs Thirty Five Thousand only) 
per month, medical expenses for self and spouse, at actuals, 
whether incurred in India or abroad including premium on 
medical insurance and related travel expenses to a maximum of 
H 15,00,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Lakhs only) per annum, maintenance 
of the Chairman’s office and reimbursement of travel, stay, and 
entertainment expenses, Club Fee at actuals as incurred in the 
course of business as per the Company’s policy. The Chairman’s 
office, including staff salaries, is maintained by the Company, and is 
not an allowance.
The approval of the Members is being sought, since the 
remuneration as enumerated above, may exceed 50% (fifty percent) 
of the total annual remuneration payable to all the 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company, within the overall limit 
of 2% (two percent) of the net profits of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2025-26.
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka being the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director, along with his relatives including 
Mr. Mehul Mohanka, Managing Director and Group CEO of the 
Company are deemed to be interested. No other Key Managerial 
Personnel or Directors of the Company and their relatives are 
in any way concerned or interested financially or otherwise, in 
the Resolution.
The Board recommends the Special Resolution as set out in Item 
No. 6 of this Notice for the approval of the Members.
Tega Industries Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the Director 
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam
Date of Birth/Age
19/05/1959; Age: 66
DIN
00588381
Nationality 
Indian
Date of first appointment on the Board 
July 19, 2005 
Remuneration details last drawn 
Refer to Corporate Governance Report
Relationship with other Directors and 
KMP of the Company 
None
Qualifications
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from Jadavpur University. Further, he has 
completed Advance Management Programme from IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Lucknow, XLRI 
Jamshedpur and International Management Programme jointly conducted by Stanford and 
National University of Singapore.
Expertise in specific functional areas
Mr. Imam has been associated with the Company for over 44 years. With an engineering 
background, he has been involved in various functions of the Company including Project 
marketing, Sales, Product management, Engineering and Research & Development. 
His instrumental role in the globalization of the Company signifies his involvement in 
expanding the Company’s presence beyond its domestic market. He was also a part of 
the executive team of the Company for the last 2 (two) decades.
List of Directorship in other Indian Public 
Companies
Hosch Equipment (India) Limited - Unlisted
List of Membership/Chairmanship of 
Committees of other Indian Public 
Companies
NIL
Listed entities from which the Director 
has resigned in the past three years
NIL
Number of shares held in the Company as 
on March 31, 2025
29,510
Number of meetings of the Board 
attended during FY 2024-25
7 (Seven) out of 7 (Seven) Board meetings.
ANNEXURE
Details of director seeking re-appointment at the annual general meeting
342
343
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Non-Independent Director
Independent Directors
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam
Mr. Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha
Mrs. Madhu Dubhashi
Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari
Mr. Anand Sen
Audit Committee
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
Mrs. Madhu Dubhashi - Chairperson Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari - Chairman
Mr. Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha - Member Mr. Jagdishwar Prasad Sinha - Member
Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari - Member
Mrs. Madhu Dubhashi - Member
Mr. Anand Sen - Member
Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
Mrs. Madhu Dubhashi - Chairperson Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari - Chairman
Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari - Member
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam - Member
Mr. Mehul Mohanka - Member
Mr. Mehul Mohanka - Member
Mr. Anand Sen - Member
Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Risk Management Committee Sustainability Committee
Mr. Anand Sen - Chairman
Mr. Anand Sen - Chairman
Mr. Mehul Mohanka - Member
Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari - Member
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam - Member
Mr. Mehul Mohanka - Member
Mr. Ashwani Maheshwari - Member
Mr. Manoj Kumar Sinha - Member
Mr. Sharad Kumar Khaitan - Member Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Finance & Operations Committee
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka - Member
Mr. Mehul Mohanka - Member
Mr. Syed Yaver Imam - Member
Mr. Sharad Kumar Khaitan - Member
Ms. Manjuree Rai - Secretary
Board of Directors
Chairman & Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Madan Mohan Mohanka
Managing Director & Group CEO
Mr. Mehul Mohanka
Non-Executive Directors
Board Committees
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Sharad Kumar Khaitan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Ms. Manjuree Rai
Chief Risk Officer
Ms. Manjuree Rai
Statutory Auditors
Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Internal Auditors
BDO India LLP
Secretarial Auditors
Sweety Kapoor 
Practicing Company Secretary
Corporate Identification Number 
L25199WB1976PLC030532
Registered Office
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, Office No.807,
8th Floor, Block DP-5, Salt Lake Sector V, Bidhannagar, Kolkata – 700091
Telephone No.: +91 33 4093 9000
Facsimile No.: +91 33 4093 9075
Website: www.tegaindustries.com
Listing
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
BSE Limited
Depositories
National Securities Depository Limited 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents 
(RTAs)
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (formerly Link Intime India 
Private Limited)
Rasoi Court, 5th Floor 
20, R.N. Mukherjee Road 
Kolkata - 700 001.
Telephone No: 33 6906 6800
Email: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
Registered office 
Godrej Waterside, Tower-II, Office No.807, 
8th Floor, Block DP-5, Salt Lake Sector V, 
Bidhannagar, Kolkata – 700091
Telephone No.: +91 33 4093 9000
Facsimile No.: +91 33 4093 9075
Website: www.tegaindustries.com
