 
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED 
 
No. 69/70, Sipcot, Hosur 635 126, Tamilnadu, INDIA 
 
Telephone:  + 91 4344.405500 
Telefax 
:  + 91 4344 405620 / 405630 
E-mail       :  wil@wendtindia.com 
Web        : www.wendtindia.com 
CIN:        : L85110KA1980PLC003913 
 
 
Regd. Office:  Flat. No. A2-105, Cauvery Block,  
National Games Housing Complex, Koramangala, Bangalore-47.  
 
Phone + 91 80 2570 1423/ 24, Fax + 91 80 2570 1425.  
 
 
28th June 2025 
 
 
BSE Limited 
25th Floor, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Dalal Street,                                                               Stock Code: 505412 
 
Mumbai 400 001 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Plot No. C/1, G Block 
Bandra - Kurla Complex, Bandra (E)  
 
 
Stock Code: WENDT 
Mumbai 400 051 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Annual Report for the financial year ended 31st March 2025 and the Annual 
General Meeting updates pursuant to Regulation 34 of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulations, 2015. 
 
Further to our intimation dated 23rd April 2025 regarding the convening of the 43rd Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the Company on Monday, 21st July 2025 at 03.00 P.M. IST 
through Video Conferencing (‘VC’), in compliance with the various circulars issued by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI and pursuant to the applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act 2013 (‘the Act’) and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), we submit an electronic copy of 
the Annual Report of the Company comprising the audited financial statements, Directors’ 
report and Auditors’ report thereon for the financial year ended 31st March 2025 and the 
Notice convening the 43rd AGM of the Shareholders. 
 
The electronic copies of the Annual Report and the AGM notice have been sent today to all 
the Members holding shares in dematerialised form whose e-mail addresses are available 
with their Depository Participants (‘DP’) as well as to the Members holding shares in 
physical form whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent (RTA) for communication purposes. Further, a letter providing a 
weblink for accessing the Annual Report and the AGM notice was also dispatched to those 
shareholders who have not registered their email addresses. The documents have also 
been uploaded on the website of the Company at www.wendtindia.com and that of the RTA 
at https://evoting.kfintech.com/ and this submission will enable the AGM related 
documents to be available on the website of the stock exchanges for access by any 
Member. 
 
The Company has vide a publication dated 25th June 2025 as well as by a communication 
uploaded on the website of the Company informed about the process for registration of 
their e-mail addresses to receive the Annual Report, Notice and the login credentials for 
participating in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility. Detailed instructions for voting 
electronically and attending the meeting through VC is available in the Notice convening 
the AGM.  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 20 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time 
and the provisions of Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Members have been 
provided with the facility to cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting services 
provided by KFin on all Resolutions set forth in the Notice. The facility for voting will also 
 
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED 
 
No. 69/70, Sipcot, Hosur 635 126, Tamilnadu, INDIA 
 
Telephone:  + 91 4344.405500 
Telefax 
:  + 91 4344 405620 / 405630 
E-mail       :  wil@wendtindia.com 
Web        : www.wendtindia.com 
CIN:        : L85110KA1980PLC003913 
 
 
Regd. Office:  Flat. No. A2-105, Cauvery Block,  
National Games Housing Complex, Koramangala, Bangalore-47.  
 
Phone + 91 80 2570 1423/ 24, Fax + 91 80 2570 1425.  
 
 
be made available during the AGM and Members attending the Meeting who have not cast 
their vote(s) by remote e-voting will be able to vote during the AGM through Instapoll. 
 
Members (individuals holding shares in demat mode) can avail remote e-voting facility, by 
using a single login credential in websites of Depositories/Depository Participants (‘DPs’). 
The process and manner of remote e-voting in pursuance of the SEBI circular is set out in 
the AGM Notice.  
 
The remote e-voting period commences on Wednesday, 16th July 2025 (09.00 a.m. IST) 
and ends on Sunday, 20th July 2025 (05.00 p.m. IST). During this period, Members of the 
Company, holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialised form, as on the        
cut-off date i.e. 14th July 2025 may cast their vote electronically in the manner and process 
set out in the AGM Notice. The voting rights of the Members shall be in proportion to their 
shareholding in the Company as on 14th July 2025 (cut-off date). 
 
Members are being provided with a facility to attend the AGM through the video 
conferencing platform provided by the Company's Registrar and Transfer Agent viz. KFin 
Technologies Limited. Members can access the facility at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/.  
 
For 
any 
further 
information 
or 
clarification, 
Members 
can 
write 
to 
investorservices@wendtindia.com or einward.ris@kfintech.com.  
 
Kindly take note of the same. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Wendt (India) Limited 
 
 
 
 
Arjun Raj P 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: a/a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P Arjun Raj
Digitally signed by P Arjun Raj 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, 
pseudonym=1eff3ec1c4c64c70a608a238462235c1, 
2.5.4.20=8fa6d2601496ef00fae6302a7018da893f30c93
caaeb1cd19a9081f89abf6d6a, postalCode=602024, 
st=Tamil Nadu, 
serialNumber=fdec33a4333fb71bbe0778445fb5bfcb15
ee7ad0511d4f3e6237daf300c56830, cn=P Arjun Raj 
Date: 2025.06.29 00:38:49 +05'30'
01
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
rd 
NOTICE  CONVENING  THE  43 ANNUAL  GENERAL  MEETING
NOTICE is hereby given that the Forty Third Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Members of Wendt (India) Limited will be 
st
held at 03.00 p.m. Indian Standard Time on Monday, 21  July 2025 through video conferencing (‘VC’) / Other Audio Visual 
Means (‘OAVM’) to transact the following businesses.
ORDINARY BUSINESS
Item No.4 - Re-appointment of Mr. Sridharan 
Rangarajan (DIN: 01814413) as Director
Item No.1 - Adoption of Standalone Financial 
Statements
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following as an 
Ordinary Resolution: 
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
RESOLVED THAT Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan holding 
DIN 01814413, who retires by rotation and being eligible 
RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone Financial 
st
for re-appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as a 
Statements for the year ended 31  March 2025 and the 
Director of the Company liable to retire by rotation. 
Reports of the Board and Independent Auditors’ thereon 
be and are hereby considered, approved and adopted.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
Item No.2 - Adoption of Consolidated Financial 
Item No.5 - To appoint M/s. Sridharan & Sridharan 
Statements
Associates as Secretarial Auditor of the Company 
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following as an 
and to fix their remuneration
Ordinary Resolution:
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following as an 
RESOLVED THAT the Audited Consolidated Financial 
Ordinary Resolution:
st
Statements for the year ended 31  March 2025 and the 
RESOLVED THAT as recommended by Audit Committee 
Independent Auditors' Report thereon be and are hereby 
and the Board of Directors, pursuant to provisions of 
considered, approved and adopted.
Sections 179(3) and 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
Item No.3 - Declaration of Dividend
with the rules made thereunder, Regulation 24A of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following as an 
Regulations, 2015 and other applicable provisions 
Ordinary Resolution:
(including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) 
RESOLVED THAT a final dividend of Rs. 20/- per equity 
thereto or re-enactment thereof for the time being in 
share of Rs. 10/- each be declared for the financial year 
force), the appointment of  M/s. Sridharan & Sridharan 
st
ended 31  March 2025 and that the same be paid out of 
Associates (Firm Regn. No. P2022TN093500) as the 
the profits of the Company to those shareholders whose 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company to hold office for five 
th
names appear in the Register of Members as on 14  July 
financial years from the financial year 2025-26 to the 
2025 in case the shares are held in physical form and to 
financial year 2029-30 at a remuneration of Rs. 1,00,000/- 
the beneficial holders of the dematerialised shares as per 
(excluding out of pocket expenses incurred by them in 
the details provided by National Securities Depository 
connection with the Audit and applicable taxes) to be paid 
Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited in 
for the financial year 2025-26 be and is hereby approved 
th
case the shares are held in electronic form as on 14  July 
and the Board may decide the remuneration payable to 
2025.
the Secretarial Auditor for the subsequent years based on 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT an interim dividend of    
the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Rs. 30/- per equity share of Rs. 10/- each declared by the 
Board of Directors and paid for the financial year ended 
st
31  March 2025 be and is hereby confirmed.
02
Item No.6 - Ratification of Cost Auditor’s 
003498) Cost Accountants, Chennai, appointed by the 
Board of Directors to conduct the audit of the cost 
Remuneration
accounting records of the Company for the financial year 
To consider and if deemed fit, to pass the following as an 
2025-26, excluding applicable taxes and out of pocket 
Ordinary Resolution: 
expenses incurred by them in connection with the Cost 
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
Audit be and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
148(3) and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or 
amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof for the 
time being in force), the remuneration of Rs. 1,10,000 
payable to M/s. B Y & Associates (Firm registration no. 
Notes:
appoint a proxy and submission of proxy form does not 
arise in line with MCA and SEBI circulars issued in this 
1. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) vide its latest 
th
regard. 
General Circular No. 09/2024 dated 19  September 
3. The statement of material facts pursuant to Section 
2024 in furtherance to its earlier circulars 09/2023 
th
th
102 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of business 
dated 25  September 2023, 20/2020 dated 5  May 
th
item no. 4 which is an Ordinary business and business 
2020, Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated 8  April 2020, 
th
th
item nos. 5 & 6 of the Notice which are Special 
17/2020 dated 13  April 2020, 02/2022 dated 5  May 
th
businesses to be transacted at the AGM are annexed 
2022 and 10/2022 dated 28  December 2022 has 
hereto for the information of Members.
permitted companies, whose Annual General 
Meetings (AGM) due to be conducted on or before   
4. The Record date for the purpose of payment of final 
th
st
30  September 2025, to hold their AGMs through 
dividend for the financial year ended 31  March 2025 
th
Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/Other Audio Visual Means 
shall be Monday, 14  July 2025. Subject to the 
(‘OAVM‘) not requiring the physical presence of the 
provisions of the Act, the dividend as recommended by 
Members. Considering the extension provided, the 
the Board, if declared at the meeting will be paid by 
rd
th
43  AGM of the Company is being conducted through 
Tuesday, the 12  August 2025.
VC/OAVM in compliance with the provisions of the 
5. Dividends remaining unclaimed/unpaid for a period of 
Companies Act, 2013 (Act), SEBI (Listing Obligations 
seven (7) years is required to be transferred to the 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’) 
(‘Listing Regulations’) and applicable circulars issued 
Authority. The Company has transferred unclaimed/ 
in this regard. 
unencashed dividends up to the interim dividend for 
Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM shall 
financial year 2017-18 to the IEPF till the date of this 
be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum 
notice.
for the meeting under Section 103 of the Act. 
The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and 
st
2. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is 
unclaimed amounts lying with it as on 31  March 2025 
entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her 
on the website 
 and also on the 
behalf and the proxy need not be a Member of the 
website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in line with 
Company. However, as this AGM is being held 
the amendments made to the IEPF Rules during the 
through VC/OAVM, physical attendance of Members 
year. Members can ascertain the status of their 
is being dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for 
unclaimed dividend amounts from these websites.
appointment of proxies by the Members will not be 
Members who have not encashed their warrants in 
available for the AGM. Hence the Proxy Form and 
respect of the final dividend declared for financial year 
Attendance Slip are not being annexed to this Notice 
2017-18 and subsequent dividends thereon may write 
and the resultant requirements for entitlement to 
www.wendtindia.com
On behalf of the Board 
Arjun Raj P
Company Secretary
Place
Date
: Chennai
: April 23, 2025
03
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
to the Company Secretary or RTA immediately for 
source on dividend payments including the formats of 
claiming their dividends.
Form 15G/Form 15H for seeking exemption is 
available in the links 
 
As per Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
and
 Members may 
extant Investor Education and Protection Fund 
contact the Company Secretary in case of any 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
clarification in this regard.
Rules, 2016, the Company is required to transfer the 
shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid 
6. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
th
vide its master circular dated 7  May 2024 has made it 
or claimed for seven consecutive years or more to the 
st
IEPF Authority. As at 31  March 2025, the Company 
mandatory for holders of physical securities to furnish 
has transferred 11,467 shares to the IEPF Authority. 
their PAN, email address, mobile number, bank 
Further, the Company has uploaded the details of the 
account details and also to either register or declare 
above on its website for the information of Members.
opt out for nomination facility against the shares held in 
the company. Also, the forms with respect to investor 
Members are entitled to claim the shares from the 
servicing are available on the website of the Company 
IEPF Authority by making an application online along 
at 
with the requisite documents in Form IEPF-5 available 
on the website 
7. SEBI has mandated the submission of PAN by every 
 Shareholders are requested to 
participant in securities market for any updation in the 
contact the Company’s RTA or the Company in this 
folio and any Investor requests. Members holding 
regard.
shares in electronic form are therefore requested to 
submit the PAN to their Depository Participant with 
Members are requested to note that dividends 
whom they maintain their demat accounts.
declared and paid by the Company with effect from    
st
1  April 2020 are taxed in the hands of the recipient of 
8. Members, who hold shares in physical form and whose 
st
folios are not updated with any of the KYC details   
dividend i.e. shareholders. Hence, effective 1  April 
[viz., (i) PAN (ii) Contact Details (iii) Mobile Number (iv) 
2020 all dividends paid/ to be paid by the Company will 
Bank Account Details and (v) Signature], shall be 
be subject to deducting tax at the applicable rate 
eligible to get dividend only in electronic mode with 
prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 1961. Members 
st
may note that in the absence of the details of the PAN, 
effect from 1  April 2024. Accordingly, payment of final 
the Company would be required to deduct tax at a 
dividend, subject to approval by the Members in the 
higher rate prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 
AGM, shall be paid to physical holders only after the 
1961. Hence, Members who have not furnished their 
above details are updated in their folios.
PAN to the Company are requested to immediately 
Members are requested to update their KYC details on 
th
submit a copy of the same. Members seeking non-
or before 9  July 2025 so that their folios can be KYC 
th
deduction of tax on their dividends may submit Form 
updated before the cut-off date of 14  July 2025. 
15G/15H as applicable to the Company on a yearly 
Members may follow the process detailed below for 
basis at the link 
 The 
updation of their bank account for timely receipt of 
detailed information with respect to tax deduction at 
dividends:
https://ris.kfintech.com/form15/
 https://wendtindia.com/investors/.
https://wendtindia.com/investors/.
https://www.mca.gov.in/content/mca/ 
global/en/home.html.
https://ris.kfintech.com/form15/.
Type of holder
Process for updating KYC details
Physical
Members can send a request by way of 'In Person Verification' (IPV) or Post to the RTA's office or electronic mode 
with e-sign to 
or 
 by providing the following:
- 
Form ISR-1, Form ISR-2 & Form SH-13/ISR-3 duly filled up;
- 
Self-attested copy of PAN;
- 
Self-attested copy of any address proof including Aadhar, Passport etc.;
- 
Scanned copy of share certificate(s) (front and back);
- 
The cancelled cheque bearing the name of the first named shareholder, name and branch of  the  bank in 
which Members wish to receive the dividend, the bank account type, MICR Code Number and IFSC number.
Demat
Members to contact their respective DPs and register their PAN, e-mail address and bank account details in their 
demat account, as per the process recommended by the DP.
einward.ris@kfintech.com 
investorservices@wendtindia.com
04
9. Members are requested to note that in terms of the 
Accordingly, it is hereby advised to the shareholders to 
inform the Company about any such agreement to 
Listing Regulations (amended from time to time), with 
st
which the Company is not a party, within two working 
effect from 1  April 2019, shares of the Company can 
days of entering into such agreements or signing an 
be transferred only in dematerialised form. In view of 
agreement to enter into such agreements. The 
the above, Members are advised to dematerialise the 
Company will inform the details of such agreements to 
shares held by them in physical form. This will also 
the Stock Exchanges on becoming aware of it within 
eliminate all risks associated with holding securities in 
the prescribed timelines. 
physical form and provide ease in portfolio 
management. For further information, please contact 
[Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, the term 
‘directly or indirectly’ includes agreements creating an 
us at 
 or the RTA at 
obligation on the parties to such agreements to ensure 
that the listed entity shall or shall not act in a particular 
SEBI vide circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD 
manner.]
th
RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 25  January 2022 has 
11.Registration of e-mail address by Members and 
mandated the issuance of securities only in 
details for obtaining/downloading the electronic 
dematerialised form by listed entities. As an ongoing 
copy of the Annual Report and Notice convening 
measure to enhance ease of dealing in securities 
the AGM: 
markets by investors while processing the service 
requests such as issue of duplicate securities 
th
MCA vide its Circulars dated 19  September 2024,  
certificate, claims from Unclaimed Suspense Account, 
th
th
th
25  September 2023, 28  December 2022, 5  May 
renewal/ Exchange of securities certificates, 
th
2020 and 5  May 2022 and SEBI vide circulars dated         
endorsement sub-division/splitting of securities 
rd
th
th
3  October 2024, 7  October 2023, 5  January 2023 
certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ 
th
and 13  May 2022 has exempted companies from 
folios, transmission, transposition etc., the listed 
sending Annual Reports in physical mode. 
entities have been directed to adhere to processes 
Accordingly, an electronic copy of the Annual Report is 
and practices to convert the physical mode of holding 
being sent to all the Members holding shares in 
securities into electronic mode. Securities holder/ 
dematerialised form and whose e-mail addresses are 
claimants are also required to submit duly filled up 
available with the DPs as well as to all the Members 
Form ISR-4 while making the service requests, which 
holding shares in physical mode whose e-mail 
is available at
addresses are registered with the Company/RTA for 
10. Intimation of details of agreements, if any under 
communication purposes. Further, a letter providing a 
the Listing Regulations
weblink for accessing the Notice of the AGM and 
Annual Report for the financial year 2024-25 will be 
Shareholders are informed that in terms of the 
sent to those shareholders who have not registered 
provisions of the Listing Regulations, the Company is 
their email address. 
required to intimate the Stock Exchanges details of the 
agreements entered into by the shareholders, 
Procedure for obtaining the Annual Report, AGM 
promoter(s), members of the promoter(s) group, 
notice as well as electronic voting (e-voting) 
related parties, directors, key managerial personnel, 
instructions for Members whose e-mail addresses are 
employees of the Company or of its holding, subsidiary 
not registered with the DPs or with RTA is provided 
or associate company, among themselves or with the 
herein and also available on the website of the 
Company or with a third party, solely or jointly, which, 
Company. The Annual Report is also available on the 
either directly or indirectly or potentially or whose 
Company’s website at 
purpose and effect is to, impact the management or 
 websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE 
control of the Company or impose any restriction or 
Limited (‘BSE’) and National Stock Exchange of India 
create any liability upon the Company, including 
Limited (‘NSE’) at 
 and 
disclosure of any rescission, amendment or alteration 
 respectively as well as the website 
of such agreements thereto, whether or not the 
of RTA at 
Company is a party to such agreements.
investorservices@wendtindia.com
einward.ris@kfintech.com.
 https://wendtindia.com/investors/.
https://wendtindia.com 
/investors/,
www.bseindia.com
www.nseindia.com
https://evoting.kfintech.com/. 
05
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
In view of the exemptions provided, no physical or hard 
A request in this regard, can be made by sending       
copies of the Notice and Annual Report will be sent to 
an email to 
 or
Members who have not registered their e-mail 
addresses with the Company/ RTA. However, hard 
 
Members may follow the process detailed below for 
copy of annual report will be sent to the     
registration of e-mail addresses to obtain the Annual 
shareholders who request for the same.                     
Report and Notice:
einward.ris@kfintech.com
 
investorservices@wendtindia.com.
Members can send the abovementioned documents 
The Board of Directors have appointed     
addressed to M/s. KFin Technologies Limited at 
Mr. R. Sridharan of M/s. R. Sridharan & Associates or 
Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot No 31 & 32, 
failing him Ms. Srinidhi Sridharan of M/s. Srinidhi & 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, 
Sridharan Associates, Practising Company 
Hyderabad - 500 032.
Secretaries as the Scrutiniser to scrutinise the e-voting 
As an eco-friendly measure intending to benefit the 
process in a fair and transparent manner. 
society at large, we request you to be part of the e-
The Notice and the instructions for attending the AGM 
initiative and register your e-mail address to receive all 
and exercising the voting are being sent in electronic 
communication and documents including Annual 
form to all the Members whose e-mail addresses are 
reports from time to time in electronic form to the e-mail 
registered with the Company/their DPs for 
address provided by you.
communication purposes. For others who have not 
In case of any queries, Members may                    
registered their e-mail addresses, please refer the 
w r i t e  t o  
 o r  
instructions in Note 11 above. 
 by quoting their 
Folio number or DP and Client ID.
14.All documents referred to in the accompanying Notice 
12.Additional information pursuant to Listing Regulations 
and the statement under Section 102 of the Act, shall 
and Secretarial Standards on General Meetings in 
be open for inspection during normal business hours 
respect of the Director seeking re-appointment at the 
(9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.) on all working days upto the 
AGM is furnished and forms part of the Notice. The 
date of the AGM. The Register of Directors and Key 
Director has furnished the requisite declarations for his 
Managerial Personnel and their shareholding and the 
re-appointment.
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which the 
13.The businesses set out in the Notice would be 
Directors are interested, maintained under the 
transacted through electronic voting. Pursuant to 
Companies Act, 2013 will be available for inspection 
Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
by the Members electronically during the meeting. 
Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, and amendments 
Members seeking to inspect such documents can 
thereof, the Company e-voting facility will be made 
send an e-mail to
available to Members to cast their votes electronically 
on all resolutions set forth in the Notice convening the 
15.Members holding shares in physical form are 
rd
43  AGM. The Company has engaged the services of 
requested to address all correspondence relating to 
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited to provide remote      
their shareholding to the Company’s RTA or to the 
e-voting facility and voting facility during the AGM 
Instapoll to enable Members to exercise their votes in 
Company. Members holding shares in dematerialised 
a secured manner. The instructions for remote           
form may send such correspondence to their 
e-voting as well as Instapoll is provided in this Notice. 
respective DPs.
e i n w a r d . r i s @ k f i n t e c h . c o m
investorservices@wendtindia.com
 investorservices@wendtindia.com.
Type of holder
Process to be followed for registration of e-mail address 
Physical
Members are requested to send the following documents to the Company's RTA by way of 'In Person 
Verification' (IPV) or Post to the RTA's office or electronic mode with e-sign to 
 or 
•
Form ISR-1 duly filled up;
•
Self-attested copy of PAN;
•
Self-attested copy of any address proof including Aadhar, Passport etc.
Demat
Members may contact their DPs and register or update their respective e-mail addresses in the demat 
account, as per the process recommended by the DP.
einward.ris@kfintech.com
investorservices@wendtindia.com
16.Instructions for attending the AGM and voting:
electronically, through the e-voting services provided 
by M/s. KFin Technologies Limited (KFin) on all 
16.1.Instructions for remote e-Voting before the 
Resolutions set forth in this Notice. The facility for 
AGM:
voting will also be made available during the AGM and 
While Members can vote electronically during the 
Members attending the Meeting who have not cast 
AGM, they can also avail remote e-voting facility 
their vote(s) by remote e-voting will be able to vote 
provided by the Company for voting before the AGM. 
during the AGM (Instapoll). 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Members (individuals holding shares in demat mode) 
Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 20 of the Companies 
can avail remote e-voting facility, by using a single 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 as 
login credential in websites of Depositories/Depository 
amended from time to time and the provisions of 
Participants (DPs).
Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations, Members are 
provided with the facility to cast their votes 
06
The process and manner for e-Voting is as below:
i.  In case of individual shareholders holding shares in demat mode:
Type of
shareholders
Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders
holding 
securities in
demat mode
with NSDL
1. User already registered for IDeAS e-Services:
a)
Visit URL: 
b)
Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which 
is available under “IDeAS” section.
c)
A new screen will open. Enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be 
able to see e-Voting services.
d)
Click on “Access to e-Voting” appearing on the left hand side under e- Voting services and you will be able 
to see e-Voting page.
e)
Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider - KFintech and you will be 
re-directed to KFintech’s e-Voting website for casting your vote during the remote     e-Voting period.
2. User not yet registered for IDeAS e-Services
a)
To register, click on link : 
b)
Select “Register Online for
IDeAS”
or click at 
c)
Please follow steps given in point 1.
3. Directly accessing the e-Voting website of NSDL
a)
Open URL: 
b)
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
c)
A new screen will open. Enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), 
Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
d)
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein you can see e-Voting 
page. Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider - KFintech and you 
will be redirected to e-Voting website of KFin Technologies Limited for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period.
https://eservices.nsdl.com.
https://eservices.nsdl.com
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
Individual
Shareholders
holding
securities in
demat mode
with CDSL
1. Users who have opted for Easi/Easiest: 
a) Shareholders can login through their user ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-
voting page without any further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi/Easiest  is  
 and click on login icon & My Easi New. 
b) After successful login of Easi/Easiest the user will be also able to see the e-voting Menu. The Menu will 
have links of e-voting service provider i.e.KFintech. Click on KFintech e-voting service provider to cast 
your vote.
2. Users who have not opted for Easi/Easiest: 
a) Visit 
 or 
 for registration.
b) Proceed to complete registration using the DP ID, Client ID (BO ID), etc. 
c) After successful registration, please follow the steps given in point no. 1 above to cast your vote.
3. Visit  the e-voting website of CDSL 
a) Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat Account Number and PAN 
no. from a link in 
 home page. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP 
on registered Mobile & e-mail as recorded in the demat Account. 
b) After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESP where the e-voting is in 
progress.
www.cdslindia.com
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/EasiRegistration
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/EasiestRegistration
www.cdslindia.com
07
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
Type of
shareholders
Login Method
Individual
Shareholder
login through
their demat
accounts / 
Website of
Depository
Participant
a)
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP registered with 
NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility.
b)
Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e- Voting option, you will be 
redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting 
feature.
c)
Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider - KFintech and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of KFin Technologies Limited for casting your vote during the remote e-
Voting period.
Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password options available at 
respective websites.
Members are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail ID with their DPs to access e-Voting facility.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:
Login type
Helpdesk details
Securities held
with NSDL
Securities held
with CDSL
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at 
or contact the toll free no.: 1800 1020 
990 and 022- 48867000
evoting@nsdl.co.in 
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at 
 or contact at 022-
62343625, 022-62343626, 022-62343259
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com
08
ii.
In case of Members other than individuals and 
Member does not indicate either “ FOR”  or 
those holding securities in physical mode
“AGAINST” it will be treated as “ABSTAIN” and the 
shares held will not be counted under either head.
A.
In case a Member receives an e-mail from RTA 
[for Members whose e-mail addresses are 
viii. Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts 
registered with the Company/Depository 
shall choose the voting process separately for each 
Participant(s)]:
folio/demat account.
i.
Launch internet browser by typing the                 
U R L :
 o r
ix.
Voting has to be done for each item of the Notice 
separately. In case you do not desire to cast your 
vote on any specific item it will be treated as 
ii.
Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and 
abstained.
password). In case of physical folio, User ID will be 
Event number [8881] followed by folio number. In 
x.
You may cast your vote by selecting an appropriate 
case of Demat account, User ID will be your DP ID 
option and click on “Submit”.
and Client ID. However, if you are already registered 
xi.
A confirmation box will be displayed. Click “OK” to 
with KFin for e-voting, you can use your existing 
confirm else “ CANCEL” to modify. Once you have 
User ID and password for casting your vote.
voted on the resolution, you will not be allowed to 
iii.
After entering these details appropriately, click on 
modify your vote. During the voting period, Members 
“LOGIN”.
can login any number of times till they have voted on 
the Resolution(s).
iv.
You will now reach password change Menu wherein 
you are required to mandatorily change your 
xii. Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other than 
password. The new password shall comprise of 
Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.,) are also required to 
minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case 
send scanned certified true copy (PDF) of the Board 
(A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) 
Resolution/ Authorisation Letter etc., together with 
and a special character (@,#,$ etc.,). The system 
attested specimen signature(s) of the duly 
will prompt you to change your password and update 
authorised representative(s), to the Scrutiniser at
your contact details like mobile number, e-mail 
 with a copy marked to 
address etc., on first login. You may also enter a 
 The scanned image of the 
secret question and answer of your choice to retrieve 
above mentioned documents should be in the 
your password in case you forget it. It is strongly 
rd
naming format “Wendt - 43  AGM”.
recommended that you do not share your password 
with any other person and that you take utmost care 
B.
Members holding shares in dematerialised form 
to keep your password confidential.
whose e-mail addresses are not registered with 
the Company/DPs:
v.
You need to login again with the new credentials.
i.
Please follow the steps provided in Note 11 in this 
vi.
On successful login, the system will prompt you to 
Notice to obtain the User ID and password.
select e-voting event i.e., Wendt (India) Limited. 
Now you are ready for e-voting as “cast vote” page 
ii.
Please follow all steps from sl. no. (i) to sl. no. (xii) of 
opens.
16.1(ii)(A) to cast your vote by electronic means.
vii. On the voting page, enter the number of shares 
C.
Other Instructions
(which represents the number of votes) as on the 
cut-off date under “FOR/AGAINST” or alternatively, 
i.
In case of Individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode who becomes a Member of the 
you may partially enter any number in “ FOR” and 
Company after despatch of Notice of the Meeting 
partially “ AGAINST”  but the total number in 
and holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e.,       
“ FOR/AGAINST” taken together shall not exceed 
th
14  July 2025 may follow the steps mentioned under 
your total shareholding as mentioned herein above. 
point no. (i) in 16.1.
You may also choose the option ABSTAIN. If the 
 h t t p s : / / e v o t i n g . k f i n t e c h . c o m /
 
https://emeetings.kfintech.com/
 
rsaevoting@gmail.com
evoting@kfintech.com.
16.2.Instructions for attending the AGM through VC:
ii.
Any person holding shares in physical form and   
non-individual Members who becomes a Member of 
a)
Members can attend the AGM through the video 
the Company after despatch of Notice of the Meeting 
conferencing facility provided by RTA.     
and holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e.,       
Members can access the facility at 
th
14  July 2025 may obtain the User ID and password 
 Members whose 
b y  s e n d i n g  a n  e - m a i l  r e q u e s t  t o  
e m a i l  I D s  a r e  r e g i s t e r e d  w i t h  t h e  
 If the Member is already 
Company/Depository Participants(s), will receive an 
registered with KFin’ s  e-voting platform, then 
e-mail from RTA with the User ID and password.
he/she can use the existing password for logging in. 
b)
Members are requested to follow the below 
If the e-mail address or mobile number of the 
procedure to join the AGM:
Member is registered against Folio No./DP ID Client 
I D ,  t h e n  o n  t h e  h o m e  p a g e  o f  
i.
Launch internet browser (Chrome/Firefox/Safari)  by 
the Member may click 
typing  the URL: 
“ Forgot Password” and enter Folio No. or DP ID 
ii.
Enter the login credentials.
Client ID and PAN to generate a password.
If the mobile number of the Member is registered 
iii.
After logging in, click on ‘Video Conference’ option.
against Folio No./DP ID Client ID, the Member may 
iv.
Click on Camera icon appearing against AGM event 
send SMS: MYEPWD <space> E-Voting Even 
of Wendt (India) Limited, to attend the Meeting.
Number + Folio No. or DP ID Client ID to 
9212993399.
c)
The facility to join the AGM through VC/OAVM will be 
open 30 minutes before the time scheduled for the 
Example for NSDL - MYEPWD <SPACE> 
AGM and will be available for Members on first come 
In12345612345678
first served basis.
Example for CDSL - MYEPWD <SPACE> 
d)
In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, only 
1402345612345678
such joint holder who is higher in the order of       
names will be entitled to participate and vote at the 
E x a m p l e  f o r  P h y s i c a l  -  M Y E P W D  
AGM.
<SPACE>XXXX1234567890
e)
Please note that participants connecting from Mobile 
iii.
The remote e-voting period commences on         
th
th
Devices or Tablets or through laptops or devices 
16  July 2025 (09.00 a.m. IST) and ends on 20  July 
connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience 
2025 (05.00 p.m. IST). During this period, Members 
Audio/Video loss due to fluctuation in their 
of the Company, holding shares either in physical 
respective network. It is therefore recommended to 
form or in dematerialised form, as on the cut-off date 
use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate any 
th
i.e. 14  July 2025 may cast their vote electronically in 
kind of aforesaid glitches. Members are encouraged 
the manner and process set out herein above. The 
to join the Meeting through Laptop devices with 
remote e-voting module shall be disabled for voting 
Google Chrome for better experience.
thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution is cast by 
the Member, the Member will not be allowed to 
f)
To join the meeting, Members will be required to 
change it subsequently.
permit the use of Camera, if any. It is suggested to 
use an internet facility with a good speed and 
iv.
You can also update your mobile number and e-mail 
bandwidth to avoid any disturbance during the 
address in the user profile details of the folio which 
meeting. The Company will not be responsible for 
may be used for sending future communication(s).
any disruption in the proceedings caused due to 
technical issues including inadequate bandwidth or 
v.
In case of any queries, you may refer Help & FAQ 
internet at the end of the shareholder.
section in 
 (KFin 
website) or call KFin on 040-67162222; Toll Free 
g)
AGM queries to be sent in prior to the AGM: 
No.1800 3454 001.
Since the AGM is being conducted through 
https://emeetings.kfintech.com/.
evoting@kfintech.com.
https://evoting.kfintech.com/, 
https://emeetings.kfintech.com.
https://evoting.kfintech.com
09
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
By order of the Board 
Arjun Raj P                 
Company Secretary
Chennai
April 23, 2025
and will be activated once the voting is announced by 
VC/OAVM, Members who would like to express their 
the Chairman during the Meeting. Members can click 
views or ask questions can login to 
 
 
  
 
  
 ‘
’ 
.
 
 
 ‘
 
 
on the same to take them to the Instapoll page
click on Post your
Questions’  and post their queries in the window 
(iii) On clicking ‘Instapoll’, Members will reach the 
th
th
provided during the period 16  July 2025 to 18  July 
Resolution page. Please follow the instructions given 
2025. Queries received by the Company on or 
th
to vote on the resolutions.
before 18  July 2025 shall only be considered and 
responded to during the AGM.
17. The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion to 
th
their shareholding as on the cut-off date 14  July 
h)
Registration as a Speaker at the AGM: Members 
2025. The Scrutiniser shall immediately after the 
who would like to express their views or ask 
conclusion of voting at the AGM first count the votes 
questions during the AGM will have to register 
themselves as a Speaker by logging in            
cast at the meeting, thereafter unblock the votes cast 
 
 -
  
 
 
   
 
 
 '
 
through remote e voting in the digital presence of at
click on Speaker
 
 ( ) 
 
  
 
  
 
’  
 
 
  
 
 
 
least two 2 witnesses not in the employment of the
Registration in the window provided in the link during
th
th
 
 
  
 
’  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. 
 
Company and make a consolidated Scrutiniser s
the period 16
July 2025 to 18
July 2025 Those
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Report of the votes cast to the Chairman of the
Members who have registered themselves as a
th
Speaker on or before 18  July 2025 will only be 
Company. For the purpose of ensuring that 
allowed to express their views or ask questions 
Members who have cast their votes through remote 
during the AGM. Speakers are requested to submit 
e-voting do not vote again at the Meeting, the 
their questions at the time of registration, to enable 
Scrutiniser will have access, after closure of the 
the Company to respond appropriately.
period for remote e-voting for details relating to 
Members as the Scrutiniser may require except the 
i)
The Company reserves the right to restrict the 
manner in which the Members have cast their votes.
number of questions and number of speakers 
depending on the availability of time for smooth 
The results will be declared not later than two (2) 
conduct of the AGM. Please note that Members are 
working days of the conclusion of the meeting. The 
entitled to attend the AGM and ask questions only if 
results declared along with the Scrutiniser’s Report 
the Member continues to hold the shares as of cut-
will be placed on the Company’s website 
off date.
 as well as the website of RTA 
i.e., 
 immediately after 
j)
A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date, 
declaration of results by the Chairman/Authorised 
should treat the Notice for information purpose  only.
person and the Company shall simultaneously 
Detailed instructions for joining the AGM through 
forward the results to NSE & BSE for placing it on 
video conferencing is also available at 
their respective websites.
18. Resolutions passed through e-voting would be 
16.3.Instructions for voting during the AGM through 
deemed to have been passed as on the date of the 
st
Instapoll:
AGM i.e., 21  July 2025.
(i)
Only those Members present during the AGM 
19. Since the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM, the 
through Video Conference facility and who have not 
Route Map is not annexed in this Notice.
cast their vote through remote e-voting earlier are 
20. For easy and quick reference, key details required 
eligible to vote through e-voting in the AGM. 
for reference by Members is annexed to this Notice.
Members who have voted through remote e-voting 
will be eligible to attend the AGM but will not  be 
permitted to vote again.
(ii)
The facility to cast the vote at the AGM would be 
available on the left hand corner of the Video 
Conferencing screen in the form of a ‘ Thumb’ sign 
https://emeetings.kfintech.com/,
https://emeetings.kfintech.com/,
www.wendtindia.com,
https://evoting.kfintech.com
https://wendtindia.com/investors/.
10
As required under Section 102 of the Companies Act,  
Mr.  Sridharan would be of immense benefit to the 
2013 (‘Act’) the following statement sets out all material 
Company and hence,  
it is desirable to continue to avail his 
facts relating to the businesses mentioned under item nos.  
services as a Director. Accordingly, the Board 
4 to 6 of the accompanying Notice:
recommends the resolution in relation to the     
re-appointment of Mr.  
Sridharan Rangarajan as a Director 
Item No.  
4
for approval by the Members of the Company.
Mr.  
Sridharan Rangarajan is currently Non - Independent 
Memorandum of Interest 
Non-Executive Director of the Company. Mr. Sridharan 
has served the longest on the Board of the Company and 
Except Mr.  
Sridharan Rangarajan,  
being the appointee, 
will retire by rotation at this AGM pursuant to Section 
none of the other Directors or Key Managerial Personnel 
152(6)  
of the Companies Act,  
2013 and being eligible has 
of the Company or their relatives are interested or 
offered himself for re-appointment.  
concerned,  financially or otherwise in the aforesaid 
Ordinary Resolution.
Mr.  
Sridharan’s profile is provided on the website of the 
Item No5
Company and the information pursuant to Regulation 
36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
In terms of amended provisions of Regulation 24A of the 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial 
Listing Regulations,  the Board of Directors at their 
Standards on General Meetings is provided in the 
rd
meeting held on 23  April 2025 after considering the 
annexure.  The Company has received the requisite 
recommendations of the Audit Committee, had 
consent and disclosure forms from him.
recommended the appointment of M/s.  Sridharan & 
Mr.  
Sridharan Rangarajan, aged 59 years, is a member of 
Sridharan Associates (Firm registration number: 
  
 
 
 ( ) 
 
 
  
 
  
,  
 
P2022TN093500), for a tenure of five
5
consecutive
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India a graduate
years as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company for the 
member of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India and 
holds Bachelor’s degree in Commerce from Madurai 
approval of Members.  
University.  
He has over 36 years of overall experience in 
The Auditor shall hold office for the term of five (5) 
various fields like banking,  manufacturing,  contracting,  
consecutive financial years from FY 2025-26 to     
service and distribution businesses. He has rich 
FY 2029-30. M/s.  
Sridharan & Sridharan Associates have 
multinational and cross-cultural work experience from 
consented to the aforesaid appointment and confirmed 
having worked in companies like ABB, IDBI, LG 
that their appointment,  
if made,  
will be within the limits 
Electronics, METITO, Trane Inc., USA and Timken. He is 
specified under Regulation 24A (1A) of the Listing 
associated with the Murugappa Group since June 2011 as 
Regulations and the circulars issued thereunder.  
They 
the Chief Financial Officer of CUMI till January 2018 after 
have further confirmed that they are not disqualified to be 
which he took over as the President and Group CFO of the 
appointed as the Secretarial Auditor in terms of the Listing 
Murugappa Group.  He is currently on the Boards of 
Regulations.  
Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Limited,  Wendt 
(India) Limited,  
Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics 
Pursuant to Regulation 24A of Listing Regulations, the 
, 
 
 
 
 
appointment of Secretarial auditor requires the approval 
Limited
Cholamandalam
MS
General
Insurance
of the shareholders vide an ordinary resolution. As per 
Company Limited,  
E.I.D Parry (India) Limited,  
Parry Agro 
Section 177(4) of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 
Industries Limited,  PLUSS Advanced Technologies 
18(3) read with Part C of Schedule II of Listing 
Limited,  
Net Access India Limited and Sterling Abrasives 
Regulations, in line with the requirements of the amended 
Limited. The details of Directorships and full time positions 
Regulation 24A of Listing Regulations and based on the 
are available at 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board at its 
rd
meeting held on 23  April 2025 had approved the 
Mr.  
Sridharan is not paid any sitting fees and commission 
appointment and remuneration of M/s. Sridharan & 
  
-
 
  
 
.
Sridharan Associates, Secretarial Auditor. The Company 
as a Non Executive Director of the Company
will not avail any services which are prohibited under the 
The Board considers that the continued association of   
https://wendtindia.com/sridharan-
rangarajan/ .
11
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013
12
Item No. 6
Listing Regulations read along with SEBI circular dated 
st
31  December 2024 from the Secretarial Auditor. Besides 
Pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
the secretarial audit services, the Company may also 
Rules,  
2014 and any amendments thereof,  
the Company 
obtain certifications and other permissible non-secretarial 
is required to maintain cost accounting records in respect 
audit services from the Secretarial Auditor as required 
of products of the Company covered under CETA 
from time to time, for which they will be remunerated 
category of machinery and mechanical appliances.  
separately on mutually agreed terms, as approved by the 
Further,  
the cost accounting records maintained by the 
Board of Directors as recommended by the Audit 
Company is required to be audited.  The Board at its 
Committee.
rd
meeting held on 23  April 2025 based on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee,  
has approved 
the appointment and remuneration of M/s.  B Y &  
Associates,  Cost Accountants,  as the Cost Auditor to 
conduct the audit of the cost accounting records of the 
Company pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and 
Audit) Rules,  
2014 for the financial year 2025-26 at an 
enhanced remuneration of 10% amounting to     
Rs.  
1,10,000 excluding applicable taxes and out of pocket 
expenses incurred by them in connection with the audit. 
Considering the experience and expertise of M/s. 
The increase in remuneration of the Cost auditors was 
Sridharan & Sridharan Associates, the Audit Committee 
after four audit years.
recommends the candidature for appointment as 
Secretarial Auditor for a term of five consecutive years till 
The Cost audit fees commensurate with the work involved 
FY 2029-30 at a remuneration of Rs. 1,00,000/- (excluding 
and the size of teams due to advancements in software 
out of pocket expenses incurred by them in connection 
and ERP system.
with the audit and applicable taxes) to be paid for the FY 
2025-26, which is subject to the approval of the 
As per Section 148 of the Companies Act,  2013,  the 
rd
Shareholders at the 43  AGM. The remuneration payable 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is required to be 
for subsequent years shall be based on the 
ratified by the shareholders of the Company.  
Hence,  
the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of 
Ordinary Resolution is placed before the Members for 
the Board.
ratification and the Board recommends the same.  
Last year, the Secretarial Auditor was paid a remuneration  
Memorandum of Interest 
of Rs. 46,000/- excluding fee on non-audit services 
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
rendered, out of pocket expenses incurred by them in 
Company or their relatives is concerned or interested,  
connection with audit and other applicable taxes. 
financially or otherwise,  in the aforesaid Ordinary 
Considering the scope of the audit and evolving regulatory 
Resolution.
scenario, the Audit Committee and Board recommends a 
remuneration of Rs. 1,00,000 for the FY 2025-26. 
The Board recommends the resolution set forth in item no.  
5 for the approval of members.
Memorandum of Interest
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company and their respective relatives are concerned 
or interested,  financially or otherwise,  in passing the 
proposed Ordinary Resolution.  
M/s. Sridharan & Sridharan Associates is a professional 
firm offering specialised services in Corporate Law, 
Corporate Restructuring, Securities Law, FEMA and 
Advisory services. The partnership firm of Company 
Secretaries is driven by three partners who bring 
extensive knowledge and a unique holistic approach to 
various areas of expertise. The firm is a peer reviewed firm 
holding a valid certificate of peer review issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
By order of the Board 
Arjun Raj P                 
Company Secretary
Chennai
April 23, 2025
13
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
Disclosure under Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
and Clause 1.2.5 of Secretarial Standards on General Meetings
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Birth
Age
Date of Appointment (Initial)
Qualification 
Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan
01814413 
16-03-1966
59 years
th
19  October 2023
Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India, a graduate member of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India and holds 
Bachelor’s degree in Commerce from Madurai University.
He has over 36 years of overall experience in various fields like banking,
manufacturing, contracting, service and distribution businesses. He is associated
with the Murugappa Group since June 2011 as the Chief Financial Officer of CUMI
till January 2018 after which he took over as the President and Group CFO of
the Murugappa Group. 
Re-appointment as a Non-Executive Director liable to retire by rotation. 
Nil
Listed entities:
•
Wendt (India) Limited
•
Carborundum Universal Limited
•
Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Limited
•
E.I.D Parry (India) Limited
Other entities:
•
Net Access India Limited
•
Parry Agro Industries Limited 
•
Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited
•
PLUSS Advanced Technologies Limited
•
Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics Limited
•
Sterling Abrasives Limited
•
CUMI Europe s.r.o (in the process of de-registration)
•
Foskor Zirconia (Pty) Limited
•
CUMI (Australia) Pty Limited
•
Rhodius Abrasives GmbH - Member of Advisory Board
Experience in Specific
Functional Areas
Terms and conditions of
continuation of directorship
and for re-appointment as an
Independent Director
Details of Remuneration sought
to be paid (Amt in Rs.)
Directorships in other companies
(including foreign companies and
the listed entities from which  the
Director has resigned in the past
three years)
No. of meetings of the board
attended during the year 
9(9)
14
Memberships in Board
Committees of other companies
(includes membership details of
all Committees)
No. of shares in the Company
Inter-se relationship with any other
Directors or KMP of the Company
Wendt (India) Limited
1. Member - Audit Committee 
2. Chairman - Stakeholders Relationship Committee
3. Member - Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
4. Member - Risk Management committee
5. Member- Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Carborundum Universal Limited
1. Member - Stakeholders Relationship Committee
2. Member - Investment Committee
3. Member - Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
4. Member - Risk Management Committee
Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Limited
1. Member - Audit Committee 
2. Member- Stakeholders Relationship Committee
3. Member - Risk Management committee 
4. Chairman - Asset Liability & Management Committee 
5. Chairman - Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-up of cases 
of Frauds
Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited
1. Member - Audit Committee
2. Member - Investment Committee
3. Member - Management Committee
4. Member - Business Committee
5. Member - Risk Management Committee
6. Member - Policyholders Protection Committee
E.I.D Parry (India) Limited
1. Member- Loan & Investments Committee
Sterling Abrasives Limited
1. Chairman- Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics Limited
Chairman- Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
PLUSS Advanced Technologies Limited
1. Member- Compensation and Remuneration Committee
Nil
Nil
Note: For further details, please refer the Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report.
15
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) NOTICE 2024-25
INFORMATION AT GLANCE
rd
In order to enable ease of participation of the Members, key details regarding the 43  AGM is provided for 
reference:
S.No.
Particulars
Details
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
7.
Date and Time of AGM
Link for participation through Video
Conferencing (VC)
Remote e-voting
Cut-off date for e-voting
E-voting period
Help line number for e-voting
st 
Monday, 21 July 2025 at 03.00 p.m. IST
https://emeetings.kfintech.com/   
Please refer the instructions in Note 16.2 of this Notice.
Please refer instructions in Note 16.1 of this Notice
th
Monday, 14  July 2025
th
Commences at 09.00 a.m. IST on Wednesday, 16  July 2025 and ends
th
at 05.00 p.m. IST on Sunday, 20  July 2025.
6.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
contact details
Ms. Krishna Priya Maddula,
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited
E-mail: 
and 
Contact No.: 040-67161736
einward.ris@kfintech.com 
priya.maddula@kfintech.com; 
Login type
Help desk details
Securities held
with CDSL
Securities held
with NSDL
Please contact NSDL help desk by sending a
request at 
 or contact the
toll free no.: 18001020990 and 022- 48867000
evoting@nsdl.co.in
Please contact CDSL help desk by sending a
request at 
 or
contact at 022-62343625, 022-62343626, 
022-62343259
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com
8.
9.
Help line number for VC participation
Contact details of the Company
Contact: M/s. KFin Technologies Limited at 1800-3094-001 or write to
them at evoting@kfintech.com
E-mail: 
Contact: 044-30006166
investorservices@wendtindia.com 
SAFE HARBOR 
This communication contains statements relating to future business developments and economic performance that 
could constitute 'forward looking statement.’ While these forward-looking statements represent the Company's 
judgments and future expectations, several factors could cause actual developments and results to differ materially 
from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to 
reflect future events or circumstances. Further investors are requested to exercise their own judgment in assessing 
various risks associated with the Company and the effectiveness of the measures being taken by the Company in 
tackling them as those enumerated in this report are only as perceived by the management. 
CONTENTS
Pages
Financial Track Record
09 - 17
Report of the Directors 
18 - 101
Economic Overview 
Quality 
Industry Structures and Development  
Safety Health and Environment 
Company Performance Overview 
 
Recognition and Awards 
Information Technology 
 
Opportunities and Threats 
Future Prospects and Outlook 
 
Internal Financial Controls 
Consolidated Financial Summary 
 
Major HR Initiatives 
Dividend 
 
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
Corporate Social Responsibility 
 
Secretarial Audit Report 
102 - 105
Report on Corporate Governance
106 - 125
General Shareholder Information
126 - 132
Independent Auditor's Report on Standalone Financial Statements
133 - 145
Standalone Financial Statements
146 - 202 
Independent Auditor's Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
203 - 213
Consolidated Financial Statements
214 - 272
02
Annual Report 2024-25
Company Overview
Wendt (India) Limited was incorporated in 1980 as a Joint Venture between Wendt GmbH and The House of Khataus. 
In 1991, Carborundum Universal Ltd (CUMI) of Murugappa Group acquired the Khataus stake in the business. Since 
then, Wendt has been a 37.50% & 37.50% Joint Venture between Wendt GmbH and CUMI. The public holds the 
balance 25% equity. 
 
Wendt was established mainly to cater the requirement of Cutting Tool Industry and commenced its Commercial 
production in December 1983.
Wendt provides high end manufacturing services are a perfect complement to today’s high-tech industries. We are a 
solution providing company in the field of Grinding. Bringing our customers, the entire spectrum of Super abrasive 
grinding wheels, specialized tools and a wide range of CNC Grinding Machines and Precision Components, all from 
one manufacturing.
Vision
Values
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Strategic Intent
•
•
Mission
The Spirit of the Murugappa Group
•
•
•
•
•
•
A dream to become a Multinational Company, 
One vision, One Goal       
Operating Manufacturing plants and Sales offices 
One team, One dream
in Asia / Pacific.
Keep up commitment
A dream to assume Global Leadership in Wheels / 
Speed of action
Tools / Hones manufacture in the Wendt Group.
Open to dialogue
A dream to become the Company with the highest 
market capitalization in the CUMI sub-group.
Wendt India seeks to become a Significant Global 
A dream to become the Company that will be the 
Player In offering customized, functionally Superior 
benchmark for all ratios in the Wendt / Murugappa 
Products / Services for Grinding & Machining Hard-
Group. 
to-Process Material.
Wendt (India) Limited aims to be a Customer 
Intensive, Innovative Company with a strong Total 
INTEGRITY
Quality Management Approach, Leveraging the 
PASSION
parental association to become a World class 
QUALITY
company in the field of Super abrasives product, 
RESPECT
Machinery and Precision Components in the 
RESPONSIBILITY
Geographies it operates.
•
•
One of the Market leaders in super abrasives.
•
Listed on the BSE Limited and National Stock 
•
Manufacturers of Special purpose Grinding 
Exchange (NSE).
Machines for over 3 decades.
•
Over 4 decades in business.
•
Manufacturers of High Precision components 
close to 2 decades.
•
Consolidated revenue of Rs. 23114 Lakhs and 
PAT of Rs. 3948 lakhs in FY 2024-25.
•
Complete solution provider to our Customers, 
from Super abrasives Grinding wheels to 
Specialised tools, range of CNC Grinding & 
Honing machines and Precision Components all 
under one roof.
Established as a joint venture in 1980.
Wendt is an Engineer’s Engineer.
New Product Development
Super Abrasive Tools
Wheels for Fettling Application
New Generation
Diamond Dressing Roll
New Product Development
Machine Tools
WAC 715 CENTRO
WBM 205 CDR
Precision Components
CB28 Assembly
Rotor
Low Pressure Vanes
During the year 1981 Share Holder Invested
per share (Purchase Price)
Bonus Share was issued twice, share holders holding
1 share received 4 shares post bonus issues
Dividend paid to share holder since inception
(Considering Bonus Share issued)
Market price per Share as on 31.03.2025
(Current price)
Market price for 4 Shares as on 31.03.2025
(Current price)
Total Shareholder Return (TSR in Times) as on
31.03.2025 (c+b)/(a)
10
2726
8862
35448
3817
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Chairman & Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Non-Executive Independent Director  
Ms. Hima Srinivas 
Non-Executive Independent Director  
Mr. Ramkumar L
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
Mr. Muthiah Venkatachalam 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director  
Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer 
Mr. Ninad Gadgil
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Chief Financial Officer 
Mr. Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Head - Sales and Marketing  
Mr. Uday R B
Head - Manufacturing 
Mr. Rathinam P
Head - Machines & Components 
Mr. Raghunatha Naidu B P
Head - Human Resource 
Mr. Satheesh C
Head - Research & Development 
Mr. Thiyagarajan R
Head - Quality Assurance  
Mr. Sanjaya S C 
COMPANY SECRETARY 
Mr. Arjun Raj P 
BANKERS 
State Bank of India
ICICI Bank Limited 
Karnataka Bank Limited
STATUTORY AUDITOR 
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, Bengaluru.
INTERNAL AUDITOR  
M/s. Profaids Consulting, Chennai.
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR 
M/s. Srinidhi Sridharan & Associates, Company Secretaries,
Chennai.
COST AUDITOR 
M/s. B Y & Associates, Chennai. 
REGISTERED OFFICE 
Flat No. 105, 1st Floor, Cauvery Block,
National Games Housing Complex, Koramangala,
Bengaluru - 560047, Karnataka.
Tel.: +91 80 25701423/1424
Fax:+91 80 25701425
08
Annual Report 2024-25
FINANCIAL TRACK RECORD
FINANCIAL TRACK RECORD - STANDALONE
st
Year ended 31  March
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Net sales
11655
12779
12685
13986
12037
11945
15812
19095
20626
21197
Domestic sales
8354
9760
8828
9733
8033
8637
11858
13783
15682
16834
Export sales
3301
3019
3857
4253
4004
3308
3954
5312
4944
4363
Other Operating Income
162
170
257
299
290
128
190
295
233
290
Other Income
486
373
428
410
767
634
554
661
686
846
Operating EBITDA
1849
2173
2259
2478
1329
1867
3803
5372
5378
5112
Profit before depreciation
2335
2534
2668
2887
2093
2499
4430
6031
6064
5953
Profit before tax
1499
1570
1651
1904
1189
1653
3615
5250
5233
4969
Profit after tax
1041
1169
1230
1345
934
1291
2710
4012
3950
3829
Dividend %(Actual & Proposed)
250%
250%
250%
300%
250%
300%
650%
800%
500%
500%
EPS (Rs.)
52.06
58.47
61.49
67.33
46.70
64.56
135.49
200.58
197.49 191.46
Fixed assets
6060
6078
5595
5689
5533
5497
5275
5637
5900
10786
Investments
1360
1502
2229
3596
3524
3669
6225
6840
7108
4855
Net current assets
2534
3077
3233
2154
2479
2800
2555
4399
5502
5874
Non - current assets
470
339
338
330
604
752
504
229
845
661
Total assets
10424
10996
11395
11769
12140
12718
14559
17105
19355
22176
Paid up share capital
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
Reserves
9544
10043
10707
11261
11766
12358
14214
16733
19001
21775
Non - current liability
127
187
91
-
-
-
-
-
-
19
Deferred tax liability
553
566
397
308
174
160
145
172
154
182
Total funds
10424
10996
11395
11769
12140
12718
14559
17105
19355
22176
REVENUE
PROFITABILITY
ASSETS EMPLOYED
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Rs.in Lakhs, except EPS
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
09
Annual Report 2024-25
FINANCIAL TRACK RECORD - CONSOLIDATED
st
Year ended 31  March
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Net sales
14296
15597
14657
16178
14063
13567
17724
20761
22482
23114
Other Operating Income
145
149
237
277
260
96
157
263
201
258
Other Income
236
164
255
242
485
396
387
499
712
876
Operating EBITDA
2215
2504
2612
2979
1828
2200
4167
5616
5564
5259
Profit before depreciation
2450
2656
2847
3221
2310
2594
4552
6113
6276
6130
Profit before tax
1580
1657
1804
2193
1361
1700
3691
5302
5421
5123
Profit after tax
1078
1205
1312
1541
1003
1277
2707
4009
4095
3948
Dividend %(Actual & Proposed)
250%
250%
250%
300%
250%
300%
650%
800%
500%
500%
EPS (Rs.)
53.88
60.26
65.62
77.07
50.13
63.83
135.34
200.45
204.77 197.43
Fixed assets
6324
6316
5884
5989
5825
5722
5469
5805
6075
11005
Investments
1388
1467
2245
3636
3598
3747
6448
7096
7345
5157
Net current assets
3198
3861
4173
3370
3905
4266
3907
5906
7095
7741
Non - current assets
474
345
348
333
609
758
510
231
847
664
Total assets
11384
11989
12650
13328
13937
14493
16334
19038
21362
24567
Paid up share capital
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
200
Reserves
10499
11032
11962
12826
13568
14138
15996
18671
21011
24169
Non - current liability
132
191
91
-
-
-
-
-
-
19
Deferred tax liability
553
566
397
302
169
155
138
167
151
179
Total funds
11384
11989
12650
13328
13937
14493
16334
19038
21362
24567
REVENUE
PROFITABILITY
ASSETS EMPLOYED
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Rs.in Lakhs, except EPS
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
10
Annual Report 2024-25
PERFORMANCE IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
FINANCIALS
• Sales
Rs.21197 Lakhs (3% YOY)
• Earning before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization (Operating EBITDA)
Rs.5112 Lakhs @ 24% of Sales
• Profit Before Tax (PBT)
Rs.4969 Lakhs @ 23% of Sales
• Profit After Tax (PAT)
Rs.3829 Lakhs @ 18% of Sales
• Earning Per Share (EPS)
Rs.191.46/-
• Market Capitalisation
Rs.177240 Lakhs
NON FINANCIALS
• Schools and Government Hospitals benefitted through
Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) activities.
• Training and development programs to employees 
every year.
• Quality, Environment, Health and Safety policy.
• Company conducts market research and customer 
satisfaction survey every year to understand customer 
preference and expectation.
• Committed towards its ESG Targets / Goals.
Standalone
Performance
Highlights in
Financial Year
2024-25 
11
Annual Report 2024-25
11945
15812
19095
20626
21197
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
1867
3803
5372
5378
5112
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
16
24
28
26
24
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
13
24
31
27
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
64.56
135.49
200.58
197.49
191.46
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Net Sales (Rs in Lakhs)
OPERATING EBITDA (Rs in Lakhs)
OPERATING EBITDA (%)
EARNINGS PER SHARE (Rs)
27
2024-25
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (%)
12
Annual Report 2024-25
PERFORMANCE IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
11945
15812
19095
20626
21197
8637
11858
13783
15682
16834
3308
3954
5312
4944
4363
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Sales (Rs. in Lakhs)
Year
SALES 
Net sales
Domestic sales
Export sales
CAGR 
Net sales           : 15.42% 
Domestic sales  : 18.16%
Export sales      :
7.17%
Year
PROFITABILITY 
Dividend Yield %
Dividend Rs / share
Year
DIVIDEND PAYOUT AND YIELD
(Rs.in Lakhs)
Sales / Emp.  ( Rs in Lakhs)
No. of Employees
Year
EMPLOYEE & SALES PER EMPLOYEE
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
0
1000
6000
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
PBT
PAT
PBT as a % on sales
PAT as a % on Sales
65
80
50
50
0
2
3
4
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Dividend / share
Dividend Yield %
1653
3615
5250
5233
4969
1291
2710
4012
3950
3829
14
23
27
25
23
11
17
21
19
18
2000
3000
4000
5000
30
1
1
1
1
1
1
412 
388 
388 
378 
391
29
41
49
55
54
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
No. of Employees
Sales / Employee (Rs. in Lakhs)
13
Annual Report 2024-25
5865
0
40
200
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
5500
6000
6500
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Average Receivables
(Rs. In lakhs) 
Year
RECEIVABLE TURNOVER (DAYS)
Average Receivables
Average Receivables Turnover (Days)
2804
3283
3531
4462
86
76
67
79
101 
80
120
160
Average Receivable
Tunover (Days)
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
1000
2000
2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
Fixed Asset
Tunover (Times)
Year
FIXED ASSET TURNOVER (TIMES)
Average Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets Turnover (times)
0
500
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
Market Price  (In Rs.)
Year
MARKET CAPITALIZATION (RS.CRORES)
Market Price (In Rs.)
Market Capitalization (In Crores)
CAGR Market
Capitalization
: 29.40%
3162
5060
8509
11234
8862
632
1012
1702
2247
1772
1000
1500
2000
2500
Market Capitalization
(Rs. in  Crores)
5515
5386
5456
5769
8343
2
3
3
4
3 
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
Average Fixed Assets 
(Rs. In lakhs) 
Average  Inventory (Rs.In lacs)
Inventory Turnover (Days)
2430
2407
2862
3270
3413
74
56
55
58
59
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0
370
740
1110
1480
1850
2220
2590
2960
3330
3700
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2024-25
Average Inventory
(Rs. In lakhs) 
Year
INVENTORY TURNOVER (DAYS)
Inventory Turnover (Days)
14
Annual Report 2024-25
PERFORMANCE IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
Raw Material Consumed 32%
Employees Cost 18%
Depreciation 4%
Other Operating Expenses 24%
Income Tax 5%
Retained Earnings 13%
Dividend 4%
DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE 2024-25
Raw Material Consumed 32%
Employees Cost 17%
Depreciation 4%
Other Operating Expenses  23%
Income Tax 6%
Retained Earnings 11%
Dividend 7%
DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE 2023-24
Raw Material Consumed 32%
Employees Cost 17%
Depreciation  4%
Other Operating Expenses  23%
Income Tax  6%
Retained Earnings   11%
Dividend  7%
Raw Material Consumed   32%
Employees Cost   18%
Depreciation   4%
Other Operating Expenses   24%
Income Tax   5%
Retained Earnings   13%
Dividend   4%
15
Annual Report 2024-25
2
3
CONSOLIDATED SEGMENT WISE PERFORMANCE FOR FY 2024-25
Super Abrasives
(61% of total FY25 Net revenue)
Wide range of Diamond & CBN products for Precision 
Grinding of Hard materials from Steel, Ceramics, Carbide 
to Exotic materials Comprehensive offering with high 
product quality and high level of customization.
Machines and Accessories
(19% of total FY25 Net revenue)
Precision Products
(12% of total FY25 Net revenue)
CNC Grinders for the grinding of Carbide 
and Steel parts with built in gauging & 
probing facility Strong product 
development momentum with application-
based approach
Precision Ground parts (Steel, Carbide)
Certified to produce parts for Aerospace & 
Auto industry
Fine Grinding Wheels, Wear Parts, Diamond Segments & 
Pellets, Brazed products, Rotary Diamond Dresser, etc.
Surface Grinding, Cylindrical grinding, Tool 
& Cutter grinding machine, Dressing 
Machine, 3D Printing, etc.
Ferrous components, Non-ferrous 
components
FY25 Revenue:
FY25 EBIT:
FY25 EBIT Margin %:
FY25 Segment assets:
? 14,159 lakhs
? 3,122 lakhs
22.0%
? 12,726 lakhs
FY25 Revenue:
FY25 EBIT:
FY25 EBIT Margin %:
FY25 Segment assets:
FY25 Revenue:
FY25 EBIT:
FY25 EBIT Margin %:
FY25 Segment assets:
? 4,364 lakhs
? 854 lakhs
19.6%
? 5,764 lakhs
? 2,779 lakhs
? 332 lakhs
11.9%
? 3,039 lakhs
From Tools to Machines to Components…
1
16
Annual Report 2024-25
R&D competencies and latest initiatives to capture the future growth trend
R&D projects in progress for Super Abrasives segment
Total R&D investments (? lakhs)
0.9%
2.2%
1.4%
2.6%
% of sales
FY22
FY23
FY24
FY25
144
421
298
556
•
Wheels for fettling application
•
Wheels for round tool industry grinding 
wheels
•
Combi rolls
•
Wheels for solar glass & automotive glass 
•
Single pass honing tool for automotive industries
grinding
•
Vitrified Diamond & CBN wheels for Crank & Cam 
shaft applications
Automotive and others
•
Wheels for ingot grinding
•
OD grinding & Reference plane grinding wheels
•
Wheels for wafer grinding
•
Dicing wheel (Hub type & Hub less type)
•
Back grinding wheel
•
Design and development of testing machines for back grinding wheel
•
Development of elastic bonds for orthopedic implant grinding
Semiconductor and Medical
+
ü
 Technology absorption for manufacture, sales and service of insert grinding machines
ü
 Strong process competence like sintering, vitrification, vacuum brazing, and electro-plating
ü
 Testing and validation capabilities for high performance super abrasive materials
ü
 Deep application knowledge for TC, medical, and super alloy materials
ü
 Received Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) recognition (Govt. of India) for         
in-house R&D Centre
R&D competencies
PERFORMANCE IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
17
Annual Report 2024-25
Report of the
Directors
18
Annual Report 2024-25
------------- • WENDJ' .____
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW
(Including Management Discussion and Analysis)
TO THE MEMBERS OF WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED
rd
Your Directors have the pleasure in presenting the 43  Annual Report of Wendt (India) Limited (hereinafter referred to as 'the 
st
Company') together with the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31  March 2025. The Management Discussion 
& Analysis Report which is required to be furnished as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Listing Regulations') has been included in this Report to avoid duplication 
and overlap.
During 2024, the global economy grew at uneven pace 
rural demand improving on the back of record Kharif 
across different regions. Manufacturing activity slowed 
production and favorable agricultural conditions. The 
down in many parts of Europe and Asia due to supply chain 
manufacturing sector experienced headwinds due to 
issues and weak global demand. However, the services 
subdued global demand and certain domestic seasonal 
sector showed better performance and supported growth in 
factors. However, private consumption remained steady, 
several economies. Inflation reduced in most countries, 
reflecting resilience in domestic demand. Fiscal discipline 
though prices in the services sector remained high. While 
and strong external balance supported by a services trade 
commodity prices remained stable, there is still a risk of 
surplus and healthy remittance growth contributed to 
prices rising together again. As growth and inflation trends 
macroeconomic stability. Together, these factors provided 
differ across countries, central banks are expected to take 
a solid foundation for sustained growth amid external 
different approaches to interest rate cuts. This could create 
uncertainties.
uncertainty around future inflation and interest rates. In 
Looking ahead, India’s economic prospects for FY 2025-26 
addition, global economic stability continues to face 
are balanced. Headwinds to growth include elevated 
challenges from ongoing geopolitical tensions, conflicts, 
geopolitical and trade uncertainties and possible 
and changes in trade policies.
commodity price shocks. Domestically, the translation of 
In this global context, India displayed steady economic 
order books of private capital goods sector into sustained 
growth. As per the first advance estimates of national 
investment pick-up, improvements in consumer 
accounts, India’s real GDP is estimated to have grown by 
confidence, and corporate wage pick-up will be key to 
6.5 per cent in FY 2024-25. Growth in the first half of     p ro m o t ing growth. A revival in rural demand-supported by 
FY 2024-25 was supported by agriculture and services, with 
a rebound in agricultural output, moderation in food 
19
Annual Report 2024-25
in 2025 and 2026, maintaining its position as the fastest-
growing major economy, driven by robust private 
investment and macroeconomic stability.
The demand for Super Abrasive products is closely linked 
to the level of industrial production. Super Abrasives are 
used to manufacture long-lasting, expensive items like 
auto and aircraft parts, demand for which is highly cyclical. 
Diamond and Cubic Boron Nitride (CBN) Super Abrasive 
products are used extensively in aerospace industry and 
other industrial applications where price considerations are 
less significant as they incur high initial costs. They are 
used in the machining of materials such as nickel, cast iron 
and cobalt-based super alloys, where precision in 
machining operations is of prime importance.
The increasing complexity of Super Abrasive technology, 
especially in high-performance applications, along with the 
high initial investment required, creates significant entry 
barriers for small and medium-sized enterprises. While 
global industry leaders are able to invest heavily in 
research and development, most unorganised players lack 
access to such resources. This limits their ability to 
compete in developing technologically advanced products. 
inflation, and a stable macroeconomic environment-adds 
an upside to near-term growth. Overall, India will need to 
The Company being a total Grinding Solution provider, 
improve its global competitiveness through grassroots-level 
innovation is at the core of the Company's products and 
structural reforms and deregulation to reinforce its medium-
processes. As such majority of our products are 
term growth potential.
customised to fulfil the customer's requirements.
While the latest projections by International Monetary Fund 
The Company is a preferred supplier for many of the 
(IMF) has pegged global growth at 3.3% and 3.7% for 2025 
automobile, auto component, engineering, aerospace, 
and 2026, respectively, the latest tariff announcements by 
defence, ceramics customers for their Super Abrasive 
the US government are expected to impact global growth, 
Tooling solutions, Grinding & Honing Machines and 
but experts indicate no imminent risk of recession. The 
Precision components. A major contribution to the 
economic outlook for India is projected to be stable at 6.5% 
Company's revenues comes from these industries.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
% change
COMPANY PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW (STANDALONE)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Domestic Sales
16834
15682
7%
Export Sales
4363
4944
-12%
Total Sales
21197
20626
3%
EBITDA
5112
5378
-5%
Other Operating and Other Income
1136
919
24%
Profit Before Tax
              4969
5233
              -5%
Profit After Tax
              3829
3950
-3%
Capital Employed
            21975     
19201
14%
Earnings per Share - Rs.
           191.46
197.49
-3%
INDUSTRY STRUCTURE &
DEVELOPMENTS
20
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
During the year the Company recorded sales of Rs.21197 
economic depression. The Company is focusing on 
lakhs, higher by 3% over the previous year.
identifying, targeting and onboarding new distributors, 
including industry specific distributors like glass, 
aerospace, steel in targeted countries, horizontal 
deployment of successful applications and products, 
The Super Abrasive business comprising Diamond/CBN 
dedicated customer meetings/calls, enhanced use of 
Grinding Wheels in various Bonding Systems, Rotary 
digital media, e-commerce, technical webinars, social 
Dressers, Stationary Dressers, Hones and Segmented 
media posts, marketing campaigns and participation in 
products is the biggest business vertical of the Company. 
international exhibitions in focus countries etc. 
The Company continues to take several initiatives 
including product development, new customer acquisition, 
price correction, horizontal deployment of successful 
applications and products, new markets, leveraging all its 
Machine tool sales comprises sale of machines both 
products as a complete package solution to serve 
domestic and export, spares, service and refurbishing of 
customers better to grow the business.
old machines. In the Machines business, sales declined 
8% to Rs. 4364 lakhs. The drop in sales was due to delay in 
orders and customers deferring purchase due to adverse 
economic situation. The Company continued to mitigate 
supply chain issues by better planning, bulk ordering of 
some of the critical parts for the year, working closely with 
critical vendors and developing alternate vendors. The 
initiatives like advance schedule release helped to execute 
The Super Abrasive business achieved sales of Rs.14054 
lakhs, which is higher by 7% over the previous year.
The domestic Super Abrasive sales grew by 9% over last 
year. This is the highest ever sales for domestic Super 
Abrasive business. The higher sales were from industries 
like auto, auto ancillaries, steel, bearings, engineering, 
cutting tools etc. Some of the initiatives for higher sales 
were close working on product development, key account 
delivery on time. Further, other initiatives like design for 
management for top customers, appointment of precision 
parts standardisation, dynamic contract reviews and micro 
dealers, horizontal deployment of successful applications, 
level planning, senior management interaction and visits to 
application teams support to the sales team and new 
major suppliers, application demonstration and improving 
product launches etc.
operational efficiency through Total Employee 
The export Super Abrasives sales during the year was 
Involvement (TEI), relay-out of shop to increase the 
marginally higher by 2% over the previous financial year. 
number of assembly bays, cost optimisation etc., helped in 
The marginal increase in export sales was due to reduced 
meeting the plan.
off take from key customers in few countries. The volatile 
During the year, the Company manufactured 51 machines. 
geopolitical scenario with continued Russia-Ukraine 
The industry-wise machine sales during last year 
conflict led to economic instability and changes in global 
comprises majorly to steel followed by cutting tools, 
trade route leading to lower off take from Europe and other 
engineering and auto. The Company executed several 
developed countries. The economic recession faced in 
new machines during the current year which was well 
some of countries worldwide worsened the situation. The 
accepted by the customers. The Company's strategy of 
China plus one strategy adopted by major economies with 
moving from industry specific to application-based 
localisation led to reduced demand and continued 
Super Abrasive Business
Machines Business
21
Annual Report 2024-25
machines yielded good results during the year. These 
machines have been well received by the customers, 
On the Information Technology (IT) front, the Company has 
projecting a good performance. Machine sales in the 
undertaken digital transformation initiatives focused on 
export market achieved good growth and acceptance by 
simplifying and automating processes in areas of 
the customers.
production planning & control, procurement, marketing and 
During the financial year, the Company entered into a  
Sales. This year, special emphasis was placed on 
technology transfer agreement with Wendt GmbH, one of 
upgrading and revamping the Company’s secure network 
the Promoters of the Company for manufacturing 
along with strengthening cybersecurity measures and 
peripheral grinding machines for insert grinding 
improving data governance.
applications. This technology will help the Company to tap 
into the global market for peripheral insert grinding 
machines with a strategic focus on the sale of new 
•
Automated Vendor Payment: Enabled end to end 
machines, service revenue and upgrade the installed 
vendor payment automation by integrating the 
machines worldwide.
Company’s Enterprise resource planning (ERP) with 
Bank portal, while addressing cyber security measures. 
This reduces the time spent on searching for open 
The Precision Products business clocked sales of Rs. 2779 
invoices for payment and minimises documentation 
lakhs, higher by 2% over the previous year. 
workflow. 
The Company continues to focus on developing new 
•
Grit Weighment automation: Eliminates the need for 
products for its components business as a part of its de- 
printing of issue slips and enhances communication 
between Production, planning and stores, ensuring 
timely grit issuance  to production. This lead to time 
saving, fewer manual entry errors, zero stock variance 
and improves traceability to production.
•
Related Party Transaction (RPT): Eliminates manual 
tracking of Audit Committee approval limits and 
simplifies capturing RPT values for individual vendors/ 
customers by executing single report. Enables 
automatic data validation and report consolidation 
without any data loss. Establishes a defined path for 
ERP S/4 HANA implementation through Readiness 
check.
risking strategy and looking at alternate opportunities 
wherever possible.
•
Network upgrade and Revamping: For improving 
network performance, the Company replaced existing 
systems with new firewall, network switches, Wi-fi 
controller and devices. Additional Fiber connections 
The Company continues to maintain its website with 
were provided at various locations using  a ring 
modified and improved content to enhance interaction and 
topology to prevent network failure. 
engagement with customers. The website's look and feel 
has been upgraded with enhanced graphics and user 
•
Infrastructure & Security: Network upgrades were 
interface. Customers can explore the Company’s products 
completed to enhance reliability and performance 
and successful applications and place their orders online. 
across sites. The cybersecurity framework was 
Additionally, new products and applications are regularly 
strengthened through upgraded firewall policies, 
updated on social media platforms such as LinkedIn and 
implementation of endpoint protection, SolarWinds, 
YouTube to increase customer awareness. These 
Sentinel One endpoint security and multi-factor 
initiatives are focused on digital marketing and ease of 
authentication (MFA) across all user accounts.
doing business in terms of servicing customers better.
Information Technology
Applications Site
Precision Products
Infra Site
Digital Marketing
22
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
Exhibitions and Seminars
Manufacturing
The Company leverages its core strength like complete 
product range - Super Abrasives, Machine Tools and 
The Company continues to participate in several 
Precision Components with access to German technology, 
exhibitions to showcase its products and to build rapport 
renowned global brand 'Wendt', global connect, domain 
with customers. The Company participated in and 
knowledge and continued patronage from customers to 
displayed its products at IMTEX Bangalore which was well 
grow its business and serve its customers better. It remains 
focused on exploring new business opportunities in 
Aerospace, Compressor & Hydraulic parts, Special Inserts 
and Carbide industry by deploying its core competencies - 
expertise, experience and knowledge in Grinding, 
Machines & Super Abrasive Tools for manufacturing 
related Precision Components.
The Company continues to focus on improving operational 
efficiency as well as optimal utilisation of various 
resources-man, material and machines in manufacturing 
and production areas. The Company has implemented 
various initiatives to improve efficiency of its processes and 
products. Some of the key ones are -
•
QRM initiatives were extended beyond manufacturing 
shop floors to include manufacturing office operations 
through the formation of Q-ROC (Quick Response 
Office Cell), helping streamline operations including 
supply chain activities. Reduced and sustained 
manufacturing lead times to improve throughput 
velocities.
•
A focused cost reduction approach was implemented 
using Hoshin Kanri A3 methodologies, resulting in 
measurable cost reductions in manufacturing variable 
cost, manufacturing fixed cost and manufacturing 
depreciation cost.
•
Significant productivity improvements were achieved 
through automation projects in Resin, Electroplated 
and Rotary Dressers product groups.
•
All planned CAPEX for the year was successfully 
implemented, creating an additional 20% capacity with 
advanced and high-productivity equipment.
•
Efforts were concentrated on improving employee 
productivity in bottleneck processes.
accepted by the customers. Some of the other expos 
attended during the year are National Expo for Steel and 
•
Initiated manufacturing of glass grinding wheels for 
Refractory industries, India International Supply Chain 
venturing newer opportunities.
Conference (IISCC), Advanced Ceramics for Sustainability 
The Company rolled out initiatives like Existing Products 
(CERA4S 2024), Armtech Exhibition, Apsicon 2025 etc. 
Improvement (EPI), New product Development (NPD) etc., 
Besides, the Company also conducted Technology Days 
during previous year which was further strengthened to 
and technical seminars at various customer places to 
continue pipeline of products offering better value to the 
educate the customer on the Company’s products and 
customers.
applications.
23
Annual Report 2024-25
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND OUTLOOK
Focus on Process Efficiency
Diamond/CBN, machine castings, systems, electrical, 
chemicals etc. However, to mitigate supply chain 
disruption, the Company has tied up with critical suppliers 
with annual orders delivery schedules.
India is expected to maintain a 6.5 - 7.5% annual GDP 
growth rate in the medium term. Goldman Sachs, the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the World Bank 
project that India will become the world’s third largest 
economy by 2027–2030, surpassing Germany and Japan. 
India enjoys demographic dividend with over 65% of the 
population below the age of 35 years. Rapid urbanisation 
and growing middle class are likely to boost consumption 
Supply Chain efficiency is one of the Company's key focus 
and productivity. Meanwhile, India is  experiencing a digital 
areas. The Company continues its focus in reducing 
economy boom with strong growth in fintech, e-commerce 
product lead time and improving operational efficiency by 
and IT services. India Stack, Unified Payments Interface 
reducing Work in Progress (WIP).
(UPI), Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), and 
5G rollout are transforming the digital infrastructure. By 
On the raw materials front, the Company continuously 
2030, the digital economy is expected to contribute $1 
develops alternative, reliable and competitive 
trillion to the country’s GDP.
sources/suppliers for critical raw materials including 
The key growth drivers for India are 
Sector
Outlook
Technology
Infrastructure
Manufacturing
"Make in India", Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, and supply chain shifts from China to India.
Green Energy
Big push for solar, wind, hydrogen. India aims for net-zero by 2070.
Artificial Intelligence (AI), semiconductors, and deep tech startups gaining traction.
Massive government investments in highways, railways, ports, and airports.
Financial Services
Credit access is improving. Fintechs and Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) are
expanding rapidly.
The anticipated key challenges are:
Manufacturing Hub for the World. This is a big positive for 
India as no other economy in the world has such high 
•
Unemployment & Underemployment, particularly in 
growth rate. India has advantages to capitalise on this 
rural and informal sectors.
unique opportunity which includes the potential for 
•
Skill gap for jobs in emerging industries.
significant domestic demand, the drive to encourage 
•
Inequality and regional disparities.
manufacturing, and with a distinct demographic edge, 
•
Climate risks (heatwaves, water scarcity etc.).
including considerable proportion of young workforce. The 
•
Exposure to global economic shocks like fluctuating oil 
Government's push to sectors like roads, railways and 
prices and geopolitical tensions
metro rail, urban transport, ports, inland waterways and 
airports, renewable energy (based on India's commitment 
India's distinct advantages include:
to Net Zero by 2070), Green infrastructure in terms of green 
•
A large domestic market.
hydrogen, EV and thrust to defence production and exports 
•
Strong startup ecosystem with over 100 unicorns.
is expected to boost domestic manufacturing.
•
A strategic geopolitical position (Quad, G20, BRICS).
The Company’s products are used extensively for Auto, 
•
Consistent focus on ease of doing business.
Auto Ancillaries, Engineering, Cutting Tools, Steel, 
India's GDP is expected to grow to USD 7.5 trillion in 2030 
Ceramics, Refractories, Defence, Aerospace, 
from present USD 3.8 trillion in 2024. This implies India 
Construction and other industry segments. As such the 
adds another India in 7 years and set to become the 
24
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
Company closely monitors the developments in these 
from 2025-2033, according to International Market 
Analysis Research and Consulting (IMARC) Group. This 
sectors and accordingly devises its business strategy.
growth is fueled by rising demand from key sectors like 
The Indian Automotive industry is expected to see a 
automotive, construction, and metal fabrication. Initiatives 
substantial growth over the next 10 years, driven by factors 
like 'Smart Cities Mission' and 'Housing for All' along with 
like rising incomes, urbanisation, and a growing middle 
rising demand for electronics and automobiles are driving 
class group. Passenger vehicle sales are projected to 
the growth of Indian Abrasives market.
reach 6 million units by 2030, with a Compound Annual 
The Indian Super Abrasives market is experiencing 
Growth Rate (CAGR) of 5.6% from 2024 to 2030. The 
substantial growth, driven by increasing demand from 
overall Automotive market, including both passenger and 
various industries and technological advancements in 
abrasive materials and processes. While Super Abrasives 
currently hold a small percentage of the overall Indian 
Abrasives market, growth rate is projected to be the highest 
among different Abrasive types. 
The global Super Abrasives market is experiencing 
substantial growth, with forecasts indicating a market value 
of USD 19.9 billion by 2034, up from USD 11.1 billion in 
2024, exhibiting CAGR of 6.0%. This growth is driven by 
increasing demand from various industries, including 
consumer electronics, transportation, and manufacturing. 
Major factors responsible for the growth of global Super 
Abrasives market include growing awareness for adoption 
of high-end technologies and their benefits coupled with 
the continuing growth of the Automotive industry. Besides, 
the product is widely popular due to its long life cycle, high 
scale hardness and superlative performance, which is 
anticipated to spur the global Super Abrasives market 
growth.
The expected growth of the above sectors provides good 
opportunities for the Company's products - Super 
Abrasives, Machines, and Precision Components in future.
The Company's growth lies in constantly monitoring 
commercial vehicles, is expected to reach 7.5 million units 
changes in the external environment and adapting to the 
by 2030, with a CAGR of 5.7%. While internal combustion 
emerging customer needs. Accordingly, mega trends and 
engine (ICE) vehicles will continue to hold a significant 
underlying new opportunities that unfold are being tracked 
share, Electric Vehicles (EVs) and hybrid vehicles are 
continuously.
expected to see rapid growth. 
The growing usage of Super Abrasive products for various 
The Indian steel industry is experiencing robust growth, 
medical applications such as surgical instruments, 
driven by strong domestic demand and government 
hypodermic needles, dental implants, knee, hip and 
support. Projections indicate significant increases in both 
shoulder joints create new opportunities for the Company 
production and consumption, with the industry aiming to 
to explore through technical collaboration and new 
reach 300 million tonnes crude steel capacity by 2030-31. 
products development. Also, growing consumer electronic 
Per capita steel consumption is also expected to rise, 
segment with manufacturing facilities in India is expected 
signaling a positive outlook for the sector. 
to provide a wide array of opportunities for consumption of 
The Indian Abrasives market is experiencing robust 
Super Abrasives in the coming years. The focus on 
growth, driven by increasing industrial activity and 
semiconductor industry which will make India a major hub 
infrastructure development. The market is projected to 
for manufacturing semiconductors is expected to be a 
reach USD 3.87 billion by 2033, with a CAGR of 6.02% 
major growth engine. The success of addressing these 
25
Annual Report 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
% change
KEY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Sales
23114
22482
3%
EBITDA
5259
5564
-5%
Other operating and other Income
1134
913
24%
Profit BeforeTax
5123  
5421
-5%
Profit After Tax
 3948
4095
-4%
Earnings per share - Rs.
 197.43
204.77
-4%
sectors lies in the technology which the Company is 
account of EV impetus, geopolitical uncertainties, rising 
exploring through necessary tie-ups and collaboration.
costs etc. The Subsidiary continues to demonstrate its 
During the year, the Company has entered into a 
Trademark Assignment Agreement (Agreement) with 
Wendt GmbH, one of its Promoters, for acquiring the 
absolute ownership of the “Wendt” brand and trademarks 
with over 60 registrations in 40 countries, owned by Wendt 
GmbH and/or its affiliates worldwide. The approval of the 
shareholders was obtained through postal ballot on        
th 
26
February 2025 and the transfer of the trademark 
th
consummated on 28  March 2025.
As on the date of this report, the Company, is the absolute 
owner of the trademark ‘Wendt’, a well-known mark in the 
strong resolve and business acumen challenging the 
international Machine building and Abrasives market.
unfavorable conditions and churning out results on a 
consistent basis.
st
The Profit Before Tax was Thai Baht 71 lakhs (about       
The Board at its meeting held on 21 January 2025 had 
Rs. 172 lakhs), 18% lower than previous year and the Profit 
taken note of the amendment to the Shareholders’ 
After Tax was Thai Baht 57 lakhs about (about Rs. 137 
agreement entered into between the Promoters of the 
lakhs), 19% lower than previous year.
Company, Carborundum Universal Limited and Wendt 
GmbH amending certain terms of the Shareholders 
During the year, the Subsidiary resorted to working closer 
agreement for enabling Wendt GmbH to sell its 
with the parent company in India with focus on cost and 
shareholding in the Company as a part of this strategic 
receivables control, establishing new product trials, 
review of exiting its investments in the Company.
increasing product and customer basket and strengthening 
the export business. These initiatives is expected to help in 
de-risking the business by compensating for the decline in 
existing products. Focus on providing value added 
services, enhancing product basket, new customer 
additions and entering new geographies is expected to 
yield desired results.
The Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Wendt Grinding 
The Subsidiary will continue to focus on core business & 
Technologies Limited, Thailand, (‘the Subsidiary’) 
value-added services and increased customer/product 
achieved sales of Thai Baht 887 lakhs (about Rs. 2154 
base along with measures to ensure OPEX, safety and 
lakhs) which is 3% lower than last year. This is due to 
cash flow to achieve sustainable  & profitable growth.
unprecedented challenges and industry slowdown on 
Trademark Assignment Agreement
Amendment to Shareholders’ agreement
SUBSIDIARY COMPANY
Wendt Grinding Technologies Limited, 
Thailand
26
Annual Report 2024-25
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company 
at the rate of Rs. 30/- per equity share of Rs.10/- each was 
for the financial year 2024-25 are prepared in compliance 
declared in January 2025 and paid in February 2025. This 
with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
aggregates to a total dividend of Rs. 50/- per equity share of 
Accounting Standards as prescribed by Regulation 33 of 
face value of Rs.10/- each.
the Listing Regulations. The Consolidated Financial 
The Company has adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy  
Statements have been prepared based on the audited 
as approved  by  the  Board in line with the Listing 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary, as 
Regulations and the same  is  available  on  the  Company's 
approved by their respective Board of Directors.
w e b s i t e  
Pursuant to provisions of Section 136 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the Financial Statements of the Company, the 
Consolidated Financial Statements along with the relevant 
The objective of this policy is to establish the parameters to 
documents and the Auditors' Report thereon form part of 
be considered by the Board of Directors of your Company 
this Annual Report. A statement of summarised financials 
before declaring or recommending dividend.
of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary in form AOC-1 
forms part of the Annual Report. The audited annual 
The interim dividend paid and the proposed final dividend 
st
accounts and related information of the Subsidiary is 
for the year ended  31  March 2025 are in line with this 
available on our website 
policy.
Considering the past dividend pay-out ratio and the current 
The Company transferred Rs.383 lakhs to the General 
year's operating profit, the Board has recommended a final 
Reserve. An amount of Rs.1412 lakhs is retained in the 
dividend of Rs. 20/- per equity share of Rs.10/- each for the 
Statement of Profit & Loss.
st
year ended 31  March 2025. Besides, an interim dividend 
h t t p s : / / w e n d t i n d i a . c o m / w p -
content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/dividend-distribution-
policy.pdf
www.wendtindia.com.
DIVIDEND
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
Appropriations
(Rs. in Lakhs)
APPROPRIATIONS
Profit After Tax
3829
Add: Other Comprehensive Income
(55)
Add: Balance brought forward from previous year
11,729
Total
15,503
Recommended appropriations
Transfer to General Reserve
(383)
Dividend - Final (Dividend paid for 2023-24 - Rs.20/- per share of face value of Rs.10/- each)
(400)
Dividend -Interim (Dividend paid for 2024-25 - Rs.30/- per share of face value of Rs.10/- each)
(600)
Balance carried forward
14120
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
(CSR)
The Company believes that social responsibility is not just 
tradition of philanthropy by allocating a portion of its profits 
a corporate obligation that has to be carried out, but an 
for social causes. The Group’s core CSR philosophy 
opportunity to make a difference. All our CSR programs are 
emphasises education and healthcare, delivered through 
aimed at inclusive growth and sustainable development of 
service-oriented institutions.
the community.
Grounded in ethical business practices, the Company’s 
CSR efforts are designed to foster economic development 
During the financial year 2024–25, the Company 
while directly benefiting local communities and society at 
implemented a range of impactful, education-focused 
large. As a proud member of the Murugappa Group, the 
initiatives aimed at improving infrastructure and learning 
Company continues to uphold the Group’s long-standing 
outcomes in government schools around the Hosur region. 
Education Initiatives
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
27
Annual Report 2024-25
Key projects were:
•
Construction of classrooms at Government Panchayat 
In support of environmental sustainability, the Company 
Union Primary (PUP) Schools in Peddaelasagiri and 
regularly distributes and plants tree saplings within 
Begepalli, Hosur.
surrounding communities. Additionally, employees are 
encouraged to actively participate in social outreach 
•
Installation of RO drinking water systems at PUP 
programs such as:
Schools in Peddaelasagiri, Zuzuvadi and Sri Sathya 
Sai Bala Gurukulam Matriculation School, Hosur.
•
Blood donation camps
•
Provision of computer and projector system to the      •
Road safety awareness campaigns
Sri Sathya Sai Bala Gurukulam Matriculation School, 
•
Volunteering as traffic wardens in coordination with the 
Hosur to support digital learning.
Hosur Traffic Police
•
Installation of Smart Boards at PUP Schools in 
Bedarapalli and Matham Agraharam, higher secondary 
Urdu School in Hosur, and the Sri Sathya Sai Bala 
In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Gurukulam Matriculation School, Hosur.
Company formulated and executed an annual CSR Action 
Plan, duly approved by the Board of Directors. During the 
•
Supply of desks and benches for students at PUP 
financial year 2024–25, the Company spent Rs. 94.27 
Schools in Zuzuvadi, Bedarapalli, Arasanatti, and 
lakhs on CSR activities. As of the end of the year, no CSR 
Matham Agraharam in Hosur.
amount remains unspent.
•
Provision of tables and chairs for teachers at PUP 
Schools in Bedarapalli and Arasanatti in Hosur to 
In accordance with requirements of the Companies Act, 
enhance classroom environments.
2013, the Company has a CSR policy incorporating the 
requirements therein which is also available on Company’s 
•
Construction of a Prayer Stage at the PUP School in 
website at the following link 
Chinnaeleasagiri in Hosur to facilitate school 
gatherings and cultural activities.
•
Provision of photocopy machines to the PUP Schools in 
The Annual Report on CSR activities in the prescribed 
Bedarapalli and Urdu higher secondary School in 
format is annexed herewith as Annexure C.
Hosur to support administrative and academic needs.
The Company remains steadfast in its commitment to 
revitalizing government schools, many of which continue to 
operate with inadequate infrastructure and limited 
resources.
In terms of Section 124 (5) of the Companies Act, 2013, an 
amount of Rs. 4,18,175 being unclaimed dividend during 
the year, pertaining to the Final dividend for the FY 2016-17 
As part of its healthcare efforts, the Company contributed  
(Rs. 3,19,935) and the Interim Dividend of FY 2017-18  
a Pasteurizer with Chiller and Breast Pump to the 
(Rs. 98,240) was transferred to IEPF after sending due 
Government Hospital in Hosur. It is intended to strengthen 
reminders to the shareholders.
the infrastructure of government healthcare facilities 
serving underprivileged and rural population.
Environmental and Social Engagement
Governance and Compliance
https://wendtindia.com/wp-
content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/csrpolicy.pdf.
TRANSFER TO THE INVESTOR EDUCATION 
& PROTECTION FUND (IEPF)
Healthcare Initiatives
28
Annual Report 2024-25
Description
As on 31.03.2024
Movement (net of deletions)
As on 31.03.2025
Loans given by the Company
-
-
-
Corporate Guarantee given by the Company
-
-
-
Investments made by the Company
277
-
277
Current Investments: Investments in Mutual Funds as on 31.03.2025 was Rs.4578 Lakhs.
KEY RATIOS
Sl.No.
Ratio
In terms of
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
1.
Performance Ratios
a.
(%)
19
22
b.
EBIDTA / Net Sales 
(%)
28
29
c.
PBIT / Net Sales
(%)
23
25
d.
Net Profit / Net Sales 
(%)
18
19
e.
Return on Capital employed
(%)
27
27
f.
Return on Equity
(%)
19
22
g.
Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio
Times
2.54
3.58
2
Activity Ratios
a.
Inventory Turnover Ratio 
 Days
59
58
b.
Receivable Turnover Ratio
Days
101
79
3
Liquidity Ratio
a.
Current Ratio
Times
2.11
2.37
Operating Profit / Net Sales 
There is no significant change in the ratios and the decrease in Return on Equity (Return on Net worth) is on account of
lower Profit after tax (PAT) during the year.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
FIXED DEPOSITS
LOANS AND INVESTMENTS
The Company has not accepted deposits from the public 
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees and Investments 
falling within the ambit of Section 73 of the Companies Act, 
covered under section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 are 
2013 and the rules framed thereunder, and no amount of 
given below. There were no loans or guarantees covered 
principal or interest was outstanding as on the balance 
under section 186 granted during the year.
sheet date.
QUALITY
Quality being the uncompromised differentiator, the 
Company aims to ensure that product quality is built by 
deploying and embracing effective quality control 
management, process robustness, quality assurance and 
discipline at every stage of material flow.
The following are some of the major work done on Quality 
during the year:
Customer Satisfaction: Reduced complaint closure time 
by introducing a structured Root Cause Analysis (RCA) 
and Corrective Action system.
Quality Assurance Involvement in New Product 
launches, reduced iterations and faster Product part 
Introduction (NPI): Early involvement of Quality 
approval process (PPAP) approvals.
assurance team in NPI processes led to smoother product 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
29
Annual Report 2024-25
Internal Quality Improvements: Strengthened the 
internal process audit system with an emphasis on process 
adherence and continual improvement.
Supplier Quality Management: Collaborated with 
suppliers on defect reduction, achieving a First time right 
(FTR) rate of 99.91% and significant improvement in 
incoming quality levels.
Certifications and Audits: 
During the FY 2024–25, the Quality team successfully 
maintained all applicable quality management system 
certifications, reinforcing the organisation's commitment to 
global standards and customer expectations.
The Company has certifications of ISO 9001: 2015, ISO 
14001: 2015, ISO 45001: 2018, EN9100: 2018, IATF 
16949: 2016 and EN 13236: 2019 reinforcing its 
commitment to ensure that Quality Management 
Standards are met.
The Company has successfully re-certified for ISO 9001: 
2015, IS0 14001: 2015, ISO 45001: 2018, EN9100: 2018 
and IATF 16949: 2016 Standards during the year and re-
certified for EN13236: 2019. 
Safety continues to be the key area of focus for the 
Company. Behavior based training both in person as well 
as virtually were conducted to promote a culture of safe 
working. The Company recognises the need and is 
committed to providing Safe, Healthy and Socially 
Accountable Work Culture in the Organisation.
All personnel on a periodical basis receive effective health 
and safety training, including on-site training, job specific 
safety amongst employees and visitors including by way of 
training etc. During the year, the Company has provided 
setting up of safety training kiosk.
trainings for creating awareness about the significance of 
SAFETY, HEALTH AND
ENVIRONMENT (SHE)
30
Annual Report 2024-25
The Annual medical check-up facility continues to assess 
the health status and risk of the employees. Employees 
benefitted from awareness sessions organised on the 
theme- FHH (Fitness, Health and Happiness) and were 
Disruptive technologies like Electric Automobiles, the 
encouraged to take initiatives to improve their health and 
recent emerging trend in the Automotive industry, although 
fitness.
a threat to the IC engine, also provides opportunities to 
explore this segment and find opportunity in this industry.
During the year, several key initiatives were continued, 
including the conduct of quarterly mock drills for fire safety, 
Nano Cubic Boron Nitride Abrasives are likely to augment 
provision of specialised medical attention for employees 
applicability of Super Abrasives in many medical and 
engaged in sensitive and high-risk processes, and strict 
electronic industry applications. The Company is exploring 
enforcement of the use of Personal Protective Equipment 
to venture into EV, medical and electronics segments by 
(PPE). The Company also adhered to zero-discharge 
collaboration and technology tie-ups with global partners to 
norms in its Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) and Sewage 
grow further.
Treatment Plant (STP), and maintained robust systems for 
The industries in the Auto, Aerospace, and Electronics 
the safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste.
manufacturing space demand high-performance 
applications. Improvements in the design of diamond 
wheels used to finish ceramics can be key to cost- effective 
The Company encourages its employees to participate in 
manufacturing. Metal-bond specially design wheels for 
customer audits, group competitions, various national and 
longer wheel life can lead to shorter process cycle times 
international events & competitions. During the year, the 
while also ensuring longer life, thereby reducing the overall 
Company received many awards and accolades from well 
grinding cost. The Company achieving the Aerospace 
recognised organisations, establishments and certifying 
certification is a step in looking at growing this segment in 
bodies for various distinctive achievements. Needless to 
future.
mention that these recognitions and accolades enhance 
The Company would continue to leverage upon its vast 
the passion and optimism among the employees and act as 
experience and technical expertise, deep understanding of 
key motivator for the Company as a whole. Some of the key 
customer requirements, comprehensive product range, 
recognitions received during the year are as follows:
superior technology and the resultant competitive edge 
•
emerging out of its complementary business verticals 
namely Super Abrasives, Machine Tools and Precision 
The Company received Original Equipment 
Components.
Manufacturer (OEM) Recognition Award.
•
CFO 100 -Roll of Honor 2025
Further, the Government's focus on Projects like 'Make in 
The Company’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Mukesh 
India' and 'Make for World' are expected to give a boost to 
Kumar Hamirwasia was conferred with the CFO 100 
the Company's products being import substitute, thus 
Roll of Honor 2025 from CFO Collective (IMA India).
helping in conservation of precious foreign exchange 
during these difficult times.
•
QCFI-NCQC 2024 Competition
Won 2 Excellence Awards in NCQC Competition held 
during Dec 2024.
•
QCFI-CCQC 2024 Competition
Industry leaders across the globe, with high brand value 
afford significant Research operations. Investment in 
8 teams participated in CCQC Competition during Oct 
Research &Development activities by these major players 
2024, 7 teams won Gold Award and 1 team won Silver 
to innovate in the existing products and develop new 
Award.
technologies to sustain competition in the market is very 
•
CUFEST 2024 Awards
high. On the other hand, there are many unorganised, 
Employees participated in Group-level Quality 
regional proprietary run entities that are smaller in size with 
competition 'CUFEST 2024' (Quality festival of CUMI), 
limited offerings, which address customers' requirements 
and won awards for Suggestion, Engineering 
in a specific region only.
Excellence, SGA, and 5s categories.
OPPORTUNITIES & THREATS 
OPPORTUNITIES
RECOGNITIONS AND AWARDS
THREATS
OEM Recognition Award
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
31
Annual Report 2024-25
In order to counter both the extremes, the Company strives 
conducting promotional activities at the vicinity of high 
to evolve a unique approach to improve its market 
potential customers. For addressing the high performance, 
presence, market share and address both the segments. 
quality conscious segment, the Company is working with 
To address the price competitive market, the Company has 
foreign Research Institutes and is on lookout for product 
launched fast-moving and Standard Super Abrasives and 
specific, niche manufacturers for acquiring state-of-the-art 
other tooling products and has been aggressively 
technology.
ENTERPRISE VALUE ADDITION (EVA)
The Company has been able to continuously add value, the summary of which is given below:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
Generation of Gross Value added
9965
9736
9432
7494
5451
Breakup on Application of Value added
Payment to Employees
3977
3637
3362
3110
2928
Payment to Share holders (on payment basis)
1000
1600
1500
800
700
Payment to Government
1094
1273
1213
921
375
Payment to Directors
35
35
39
29
24
Towards replacement and expansion
3859
3190
3318
2634
1424
Total
9965
9736
9432
7494
5451
•
service).
•
Payment to Government is current tax + dividend distribution tax, if any.
•
Replacement and expansion is Retained earnings+ Depreciation + Deferred tax.
•
The Company has been constantly investing towards replacement and expansion expenditure to ensure fulfilment of 
market demand.
Gross Value Added is Revenue less Expenditure (excluding depreciation, expenditure on employees & directors’ 
The Company has constituted a Risk Management 
monitor risks to evaluate their potential short term and long 
Committee (RMC) aligned with the requirements of the 
term impact and strategically plan for effective mitigation.
Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. The 
The Company determines the categories of risk from 
details of the Committee and its terms of reference are set 
strategic, operational, environmental, legal, social, cyber 
out in the Corporate Governance Report forming part of 
risks, extended to enterprise and financial risks which the 
this Report.
organisation may be exposed to and could impact its ability 
The Company has a robust business risk management 
to conduct its business operations without disruption, to 
process to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks impacting 
provide customer satisfaction and achieve sustainable 
the business including those which may threaten the 
success. 
existence of the Company. This framework seeks to create 
The Risk Management also forms an integral part of the 
transparency, minimise adverse impact on the business 
Company's Business Plan.
objectives and enhance the Company's competitive 
advantage. This also defines risk management approach 
The Company has also developed a structured Risk 
across the organisation across various levels including 
Management Policy encompassing the risk management 
documentation and reporting. The framework has different 
objectives, principles, processes, responsibility for 
risk models which help in identifying risk trends, exposure 
implementation, maintenance of risk registers, review of 
and potential impact analysis at a company level and also 
risk movements, risk reporting framework etc.The Risk 
for the business segments.
Management Committee continued to review the risks and 
In an ever-changing economic landscape marked by 
mitigation plan as per the adopted Charter and Risk 
dynamic customer demand, the Company proactively 
Management Policy.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Risks and Concerns
32
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
After the risk is identified, risk prioritisation is undertaken 
The Internal Audit function is handled by an external firm 
which evaluates the effectiveness and adequacy of internal 
which involves assigning a score based on the impact 
controls, compliance with operating systems, policies and 
(potential outcome) & likelihood (probability of 
procedures of the Company and recommends 
occurrence).The risks are also assessed for velocity (how 
improvements. The scope of the Internal Audit is annually 
fast a risk can impact an organisation) to assess the need 
determined by the Audit Committee considering inputs 
for crisis plan.The risk response of the Company is of the 
from the Statutory Auditors and the Management Team. 
following types:
Significant audit observations and the corrective/ 
preventive actions taken by the process owners is 
•
Avoidance i.e., not to start or continue with an activity 
presented to the Audit Committee. A Periodic review of the 
which gives rise to a risk.
adherence to the agreed action plan is carried out.
•
Sharing the risk i.e., sharing with another party, the 
Capital and revenue expenditures are monitored and 
burden of loss or the benefit of gain, from a risk.
controlled with reference to approved budgets. Investment 
•
Mitigating risk, an action that reduces the impact or 
decisions are subject to detailed evaluation and formal 
likelihood of a risk.
approval according to schedule of authority in place. A 
periodical review of capital expenditure with reference to 
•
Retention, where no worthwhile controls actions are 
benefits forecasted is done. Physical verification of assets 
feasible, and the risk is within the Company's tolerance 
is also periodically undertaken.
level.
The Audit Committee reviews the overall functioning of 
Internal Audit on a periodical basis. Periodical reviews of 
audit plans, observations, and recommendations of the 
internal and external auditors, with reference to the 
significant risk areas and adequacy of internal controls are 
st
The Company had adopted IndAS with effect from 1  April 
undertaken by the Committee and keeps the Board of 
2016 pursuant to the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Directors informed of its observations, if any, from time to 
Standard) Rules,2015 notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
time.
th
Affairs on 16  February 2015.
During the year, there were no changes in internal control 
over financial reporting that have materially affected or are 
likely to have any financial reporting lapse.
The Board based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee had re-appointed M/s. Profaids Consulting as 
The Company has an Internal Control system 
Internal Auditors of the Company.
commensurate with the size, scale, and complexity of its 
operations. The controls have been designed and 
categorised based on the nature, type and the risk rating so 
Internal Control is a process, effected by an entity's Board 
as to effectively ensure the reliability of operations with 
of Directors, Management and other personnel, designed 
adequate checks and balances.
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting 
The Company's internal control system covers the 
and compliance as defined by the Committee of 
following aspects:
Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway 
•
Safeguarding the assets of the Company;
Commission (appointed by SEC, USA).
•
Financial proprietary of business transactions;
As per Section 134(5)(e) of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
term Internal Financial Control (IFC) means the policies 
•
Compliance with prevalent statutes regulations, 
and the procedures adopted by the Company for ensuring:
policies and procedures;
a)
orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
•
Control over capital and revenue expenditure with 
adherence to accounting policies;
reference to approved budgets;
b)
safeguarding of its assets;
•
Investment decisions are subject to detailed 
c)
prevention and detection of frauds and errors;
evaluation and formal approval according to the 
authority schedule in place.
d)
accuracy and completeness of accounting records and
e)
timely preparation of reliable financial information.
INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (IND 
AS) - IFRS CONVERGED STANDARDS 
INTERNAL
CONTROL
SYSTEM
& 
ADEQUACY
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS (IFC)
33
Annual Report 2024-25
The key components of IFC followed by the Company are:
The Company's robust Cash Management Policy 
comprises of:
1.
Entity Level Controls (ELC) that the management 
relies on to establish appropriate Code of Conduct, 
a.
Usage of cash to provide sufficient working capital to 
Enforcement and Delegation of Authority, Hiring and 
address business objectives of the Company and to 
Retention practices, Whistle Blower mechanism and 
add value to all stakeholders by continued 
other policies and procedures.
enhancement.
2.
Process Level Controls (PLC) to ensure processes are 
b.
Conserving sufficient cash as reserves that will aid the 
stable, predictable and consistently operating at the 
Company in venturing into meaningful business 
targeted level of performance with only a normal 
opportunities that unfold in future.
variation are classified into Manual or Automated or IT 
c.
Prudently invest surplus funds that the business 
dependent Controls. They are also classified as 
generates in liquid investments including AAA or AA 
Preventive or Detective.
rated debt schemes of mutual funds as per the Board 
3.
General IT Controls to ensure appropriate functioning 
approved policy.This ensures the availability, safety 
of IT applications and systems built by Company to 
and liquidity of the Company's funds while ensuring 
enable accurate and timely processing of financial 
reasonable yield as per the prevailing market rates. 
data are-User Access rights Management and Logical 
The surplus funds are generated through stringent 
control of working capital.
access; Change Management controls; password 
st
policies and practices; Patch management and 
As on 31  March 2025, the Company's investment in debt 
License management; backup and recovery of data.
mutual funds was Rs.4578 lakhs in securities holding 
papers with high credit rating.
The adequacy of IFC is ensured by:
•
Documentation of risks and controls associated with 
major processes;
The Company continues the cost optimisation initiatives 
•
Validation classification of existing Controls to mitigate 
which started as a dedicated programme during the 
risks;
pandemic. This leads to continued focus on controllable 
costs in terms of reduction of losses and rejections, better 
•
Identification of improvements and upgrades to the 
negotiations with suppliers and vendors, price increase 
control;
with customers and better price realisation from sale of 
•
Improving the effectiveness of controls through data 
scrap etc. The Company managed its cost by negotiating 
analytics;
annual price with critical suppliers and buying in bulk based 
•
Performing testing of controls by Independent Internal 
on annual demand projection. To combat supply chain 
Audit firm;
disruption, the Company continues developing alternate 
•
Implementation of sustainable solutions to Audit 
suppliers as a part of its de-risking strategy. Also, the 
observations;
Company continues looking at the indigenisation of some 
of the supplies.
The IFC Audits conducted annually by an independent firm 
Initiatives like Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) has 
of Chartered Accountants by testing of controls to ensure 
ensured continuity of supplies of critical items including 
that all controls are operational, effective, adequate and 
rationalisation of costs. Focus on Cost Optimisation has 
identifying improvements to controls wherever necessary 
yielded savings in all the business segments. The variable 
which is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
and fixed cost reduction initiatives undertaken in the 
previous year has resulted in good improvement in the 
bottom line.
The Company follows efficient working capital 
management. This requires being prudent in capital 
st
expenditure. Also, making its cash conversion cycle more 
The paid-up equity share capital as on 31  March 2025 was 
efficient through faster collections from debtors, faster 
Rs. 200 lakhs. During the year under review, the Company 
conversion from raw materials to finished goods through 
has not issued shares with differential voting rights nor 
Quick Response Manufacturing (QRM) resulting in healthy 
granted stock options nor sweat equity.
cash generation. Thereby, the Company is able to maintain 
its debt-free status.
Costs
  FINANCIAL REVIEW
Liquidity and Cash Equivalents
    FINANCIAL POSITION
Share Capital
34
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
Shareholders' Funds
INVENTORIES AND SUNDRY DEBTORS
Loan Funds
Credit Rating
FOREIGN EXCHANGE HEDGING
   Human Resource
      ASSETS
      CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
st 
The Company follows rigorous Working Capital 
The shareholders' fund as on 31
March 2025 was 
Management, based on a robust process of continuous 
Rs.21975 lakhs against Rs.19201 lakhs of previous year. 
monitoring and control of receivables, inventories and 
Accordingly, the book value of the share stands at          
other parameters. The overall inventory level as on      
Rs. 1099/- as compared to Rs.960/- during the previous 
st 
31 March 2025 is Rs. 3440 lakhs which is at same levels 
year.
st
as against previous year (Rs. 3385 lakhs as on 31  March 
2024). 
st
The Company continues its debt free status as it does not 
Receivables (Gross) as on 31  March 2025, were at       
have any long-term borrowing. It continues to utilise its 
Rs. 6694 lakhs against Rs.5220 lakhs during the previous 
cash credit limit with the banks to bridge the short-term fund 
year. The higher receivables are due to record highest 
requirement and for meeting the temporary mismatches in 
sales executed during March 2025. The Company closely 
its cash flow.
monitors the Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) through an 
aggressive receivable management system including 
close follow-ups and credit lock through the SAP system, 
st
st
DSO is at 101 days as on 31  March 2025 (79 days as on 
Your Company's credit rating as on 31  March 2025 is as 
st 
31
March 2024), primarily on account of higher sales 
follows:
during March 2025. This ensures that receivables are kept 
Rating Agency
Long-term 
Short-term
under control and payments received on time.
Debt facilities
Debt facilities
ICRA Limited
AA (-) Stable, 
A1(+)
Positive Outlook
The Company, being a net exporter, continues to practice 
The working capital limits of the Company continued to be 
natural hedging of foreign exchange earnings and outflow 
rated by ICRA as AA- (pronounced ICRA double A minus) 
and does not take forward covers. The net forex gain during 
rating assigned to the Rs. 2 Crore Long-term Fund facilities 
the year was Rs.94 lakhs (Previous Year: Rs.93 lakhs). 
of the Company which signifies low credit risk and stable. 
The short-term rating assigned to Rs. 19 crore Non-Fund 
Based working capital limit also continued to be reaffirmed 
as A1+ (pronounced ICRA A one plus).
At Wendt, an engineering and knowledge-driven 
organisation, employees are regarded as the Company’s 
There are no material changes and commitments affecting 
most valuable assets. The Company is proud of its strong 
the financial position of the Company which occurred 
and diverse workforce, where every individual is seen as a 
st
between 31  March 2025 and the date of this Report.
"Partner in Progress." The Company’s human capital - 
encompassing the education, experience, potential, and 
capabilities of our people - is a key intangible asset that 
drives business growth and innovation.
The Company actively promotes diversity and encourages 
The Company follows the policy of being prudent in its 
employee involvement in continuous improvement 
capex spend. During the current year, the capital 
initiatives such as Cross Functional Teams (CFTs), 
expenditure was Rs. 5829 lakhs (Previous year: Rs.1115 
Kaizens, Small Group Activities (SGAs) and the 
Lakhs). The major capex spent was on addition of new 
Suggestions Scheme, fostering a culture of ownership and 
plant & machinery towards capability building in fast 
collaboration at all levels.
growing products and new products capacity 
enhancements, which are critical for the future growth of 
Employee Safety and Wellbeing remain top priorities, with 
the Company. Further, the Company acquired the ‘Wendt’ 
direct oversight and commitment from the Board. Periodic 
brand at a consideration of Rs. 3508 lakhs.The acquisition 
training and awareness programs are conducted to 
of this brand will help Company leverage the global market. 
proactively identify and eliminate unsafe working 
As in the past, the Company follows the policy of funding all 
conditions. The Company has also engaged a professional 
the capex through internal accruals. The Company reviews 
counsellor to support employees’ mental health and 
all its capex investments performance periodically against 
wellbeing, supplemented by monthly wellness sessions led 
the projected rate of interest and payback period.
by subject matter experts on various health-related topics. 
The Company takes pride in reporting zero-accident record 
35
Annual Report 2024-25
throughout the financial year. This achievement reflects 
boarding platforms.
continued commitment of the Company to the highest 
•
Established functional head review mechanisms to 
standards of workplace safety, proactive risk management 
provide timely feedback to new hires and ensure 
and the collective efforts of all employees in fostering a 
alignment of their early contributions with 
culture of safety and accountability.
organisational goals.
Industrial harmony has been sustained through cordial 
employee relations and a positive work environment. As of 
•
Conducted comprehensive market benchmarking 
st
31  March 2025, the Company’s permanent employee 
leading to pay adjustments to stay competitive and 
strength stood at 391. Various employee committees such 
retain top talent.
as Health & Safety, Canteen, Events, Women’s POSH and 
•
Introduced employee feedback mechanisms and 
Works Committee remain active in driving employee 
executed engagement surveys with targeted action 
engagement and addressing grievances in a timely and 
plans.
effective manner.
•
Increased senior leadership connect through regional 
performance review visits.
The Company continues to uphold its commitment to a safe 
•
Designed custom compensation packages for niche 
and respectful workplace through a robust Policy on 
technical positions to address talent gaps.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment, in alignment with the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. An 
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) has been duly 
•
Initiated labour demand forecasting and staffing mix 
constituted as per statutory requirements. No complaints 
optimisation (permanent, trainee and contract).
were received during the year under review. 
•
Executed targeted upskilling programs to remove 
productivity bottlenecks in key departments.
•
Integrated Lean principles and multi-skilling strategies 
to improve workforce flexibility and output.
•
Developed a long-term strategic recruitment plan to 
address future workforce needs, including targeted 
•
Digitised Human Resource (HR) processes including 
headhunting for niche roles.
recruitment, onboarding, attendance, reimbursement, 
Employee Self Service (ESS), and performance 
•
Conducted 9-Box assessments to identify high-
management.
potential talent (L2 and L3) and initiated structured 
leadership development programs.
•
Rolled out HR Analytics Dashboards for real-time 
insights on key HR metrics, productivity and attrition.
•
Strategically restructured Product Development and 
R&D teams to enhance agility and innovation.
•
Promoted AI-based tools to improve recruitment 
quality and reduce process cycle time.
•
Launched specialised training initiatives, including 
international exposure in Germany for advanced 
machine-building skills.
•
Sustained harmonious industrial relations through 
•
Continued to advance its alignment with LTS 2030 
regular shop floor engagement and proactive 
vision by focusing on capability building and workforce 
grievance handling.
planning.
•
Formed employee committees to co-create solutions 
and enhance workforce participation.
•
Regional consultants were engaged to support 
•
Rolled out wellness programs including monthly 
location-specific hiring and improve recruitment 
awareness sessions and access to professional 
effectiveness.
counseling.
•
Hired and trained Graduate Engineering Trainees 
•
Supported CSR initiatives across seven (7) schools 
(GETs) for sales and application roles to build a future-
through infrastructure improvement programs and one 
ready talent pool.
(1) Government hospital.
•
Enhanced the onboarding experience with revised 
orientation, buddy and mentoring systems and pre-
Talent Retention and Engagement
Operational Excellence and Productivity 
Enhancement
Major HR Initiatives of 2024-25
Enabling Change Management & Leadership 
Development
Digitalisation and Analytics
Industrial Relations and CSR
Hiring & Onboarding Excellence
36
Annual Report 2024-25
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/ 
Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf 
B U S I N E S S  R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y  A N D  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
placed before the Audit Committee of the Company. The 
approval of estimates and revisions to this list of 
The Company, as per the requirements of the Companies 
transactions is planned in the same manner as done for the 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations has 
parent company (detailed above).
a Policy for dealing with Related Parties. Further, in line 
All transactions with Related Parties under the Companies 
with the amendments made in Listing Regulations 
Act, 2013 entered during the financial year were in the 
pertaining to related party transactions which are effective 
th
ordinary course of business and on an arm's length basis 
on prospective basis i.e. 13  December 2024 onwards, the 
and hence no particulars are required to be entered in the 
policy on dealing with related party transactions was 
Form AOC-2. Further, all transactions entered into with 
amended to adapt to the changes.
Related Parties during the year even at arms' length basis 
In line with its stated policy, all Related Party transactions 
and in the ordinary course and hence no disclosure was 
both under the Companies Act, 2013 as well as the Listing 
required to be made in Form AOC-2. Accordingly, there are 
Regulations are placed before the Audit Committee for its 
no contracts or arrangements entered with Related Parties 
review and approval. Prior approval of the Committee is 
during the year to be disclosed under Sections 188(1) and 
obtained on a quarterly basis for the transactions that are 
134(h) of the Companies Act, 2013 in Form AOC- 2. The 
foreseen and repetitive in nature. Omnibus approval in 
Form AOC-2 in the prescribed format is annexed to this 
respect of transactions which are not routine, or which 
report as Annexure B.
cannot be foreseen or envisaged are also obtained as 
During the financial year 2024-25, as required under 
permitted under the applicable laws and the thresholds are 
Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations, the of the 
periodically reviewed. The list of Related parties is 
th
Members was obtained on 26  February 2025 for the 
reviewed and periodically updated as per the prevailing 
material related party transactions entered/ to be entered 
regulatory conditions. Further, as per amended provisions 
with Wendt GmbH during the FY 2024-25 and FY 2025-26 
of Listing Regulations, the Independent members of the 
pertaining to purchase & sale of goods and materials, 
Audit Committee are now allowed to ratify Related Party 
commission income, consideration for trademark 
transactions which are not material upto a value of ratified 
assignment and payment of technology license fee. 
transaction of Rs. 1 crore.
There are no materially significant Related Party 
The details of transactions proposed to be entered with 
transactions made by the Company with its Promoters, 
Related Parties are placed before the Audit Committee for 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, or their relatives may 
approval on an annual basis before the commencement of 
have a potential conflict with the interest of the Company at 
the financial year. Thereafter, a statement containing the 
large.
nature and value of the transactions entered by the 
Company with Related Parties is presented for quarterly 
The Policy on Related Party Transactions as approved by 
review by the Committee. Further, revised estimates or 
the Board is uploaded on the Company's website 
changes, if any to the proposed transactions for the 
remaining period are also placed for approval of the 
None of the 
Committee on a quarterly basis. Besides, the Related Party 
transactions entered during the year are also reviewed by 
Directors and KMPs had any pecuniary relationship or 
the Board on an annual basis. During the Audit Committee 
transaction with the Company other than those relating to 
th
meeting held on 14  March 2025, the transactions of the 
remuneration in their capacity as Directors/Executives and 
subsidiary company with their Related Parties as well as 
corporate action entitlements in their capacity as 
those envisaged with the Related parties of the Company 
shareholders of the Company.
were placed before the Audit Committee of the Company 
along with the minimum information in the format as 
th
introduced by SEBI vide circular dated 14 February 2025 
read along with the Industry standards note.
th
During the Audit Committee meeting held on 14  March 
The Company’s ethical and responsible behaviour 
2025, the estimated transactions of the subsidiary 
complements its corporate culture. Being a public listed 
company with their Related Parties as well as those 
company, the Company recognises that its accountability 
envisaged with the Related parties of the Company were 
is not limited only to its shareholders from a financial 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
37
Annual Report 2024-25
perspective but also to the larger society in which it 
retired as a Non-Executive Independent Chairman 
rd 
operates. In November 2018, the Ministry of Corporate 
effective close of business hours of 23
July 2024 on 
Affairs (MCA) constituted a Committee on Business 
completion of his term and Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao was 
th
Responsibility Reporting (‘the Committee’) to finalise 
appointed as a Chairperson of the Board effective 24  July 
business responsibility reporting formats for listed and 
2024.
unlisted companies, based on the framework of the 
The Board places on record its appreciation for the 
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 
services rendered by Mr. Shrinivas Govindrao Shirgurkar 
(‘NGRBC’). Through its report, the Committee 
and Mr. C Srikanth during their tenure of office as Directors 
recommended that Business Responsibility Reporting 
of the Company including as members of its various 
(‘BRR’) be upgraded to Business Responsibility and 
Committees. The Board welcomed Mr. Ramkumar and 
Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) where disclosures are 
wished him well in his role as an Independent Director.
based on ESG parameters, compelling organisations to 
Consequent to the changes in the Board composition, the 
holistically engage with stakeholders and go beyond 
constitution of Committees of the Board was reviewed and 
regulatory compliances in terms of business measures and 
revised more fully detailed in the Corporate Governance 
their reporting. SEBI, vide its circular dated May 10, 2021, 
section of the Report.
made BRSR mandatory for the top 1,000 listed companies 
(by market capitalisation) from fiscal 2023. 
Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan retires by rotation at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible, 
A copy of the Policy is available at 
offers himself for re-appointment. A proposal for his re-
appointment is included in the Notice convening the       
rd
43  Annual General Meeting for consideration and 
The Business Responsibility and sustainability Report for 
approval by the shareholders.
st 
the year ended 31
March 2025 in terms of amended 
The Company has received declarations from all its 
Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations is annexed to this 
Report as Annexure E.
Independent Directors confirming that they meet the 
criteria of independence prescribed both under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. In the 
opinion of the Board, all the Directors appointed during the 
year are persons with integrity, expertise and possess 
st
As on 31  March 2025, the Board of the Company 
relevant experience in their respective fields.
comprised six (6) Directors of which half (three) are 
independent.
All the Independent Directors of the Company have 
registered their names in the Independent Directors Data 
During the FY 2024-25, Mr. C Srikanth stepped down as an 
Executive Director and Chief Executive Director effective 
bank and had completed test/exempted as required under 
th 
close of business hours on 5 May 2024 and Mr. Ninad 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules referred therein.
Gadgil was appointed as an Executive Director & Chief 
th
Executive Officer effective 6  May 2024 and the 
appointment  was approved by the shareholders at the  
nd
nd
Mr. Ninad Gadgil, Executive Director & Chief Executive 
42  Annual General Meeting held on 22  July 2024.       
Officer, Mr. Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia, Chief Financial 
Mr. L Ramkumar was appointed as a Non-Executive 
nd
Officer and Mr. P Arjun Raj, Company Secretary are the 
Independent Director at the 42  Annual General Meeting 
th
with effect from 24 July 2024 for a term of three (3) 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as per Section 
consecutive years. Mr. Shrinivas Govindrao Shirgurkar 
203 of the Companies Act, 2013.
https://wendtindia.com 
/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Busines-Responsibility-
Policy.pdf
GOVERNANCE 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL (KMP)
38
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
BOARD MEETINGS
P O L I C Y  O N  A P P O I N T M E N T  A N D  
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
BOARD EVALUATION
A calendar of Board Meetings is prepared and circulated in 
advance to the Directors.
Pursuant to Section 178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
During the year, nine (9) Board Meetings were convened 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board 
and held in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The 
has formulated the criteria for Board nominations as well as 
date(s) of the Board Meeting and attendance of the 
the policy on remuneration for Directors and employees of 
directors are given in the Corporate Governance Report 
the Company.
forming an integral part of this report.
The criteria for Board nominations lays down the 
qualification norms in terms of personal traits, experience, 
background and standards for independence besides the 
positive attributes required for a person to be inducted into 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Board of the Company. Criteria for induction into Senior 
the Listing Regulations, the Board carried out an annual 
Management positions have also been laid down. During 
performance evaluation of its own performance, the 
the year, the code of conduct and the criteria for Senior 
Directors individually as well as the evaluation of the 
Management was reviewed and amended in line with the 
working of its various Committees as per the evaluation 
SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) 
framework adopted by the Board on the recommendation 
th
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 dated 12  
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. 
December 2024.
Structured assessment forms were used in the overall 
Board evaluation comprising various aspects of the 
The Remuneration policy provides the framework for 
Board's functioning in terms of structure, its meetings, 
remunerating the members of the Board, Key Managerial 
strategy, governance and other dynamics of its functioning 
Personnel and other employees of the Company. This 
besides the financial reporting process, internal controls 
Policy is guided by the principles and objectives 
and risk management. The evaluation of the Committees 
enumerated in Section 178(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 
was based on their terms of reference fixed by the Board 
and reflects the remuneration philosophy and principles of 
besides the dynamics of their functioning in terms of 
the Murugappa Group to ensure reasonableness and 
meeting frequency, effectiveness of contribution etc.
sufficiency of remuneration to attract, retain and motivate 
Separate questionnaires were used to evaluate the 
competent resources, a clear relationship of remuneration 
performance of individual Directors on parameters such as 
to performance and a balance between rewarding short 
their level of engagement and contribution, objective 
and long-term performance of the Company. The policy 
judgement etc. The Executive Director's evaluation was 
lays down broad guidelines for payment of remuneration to 
based on leadership qualities, strategic planning, 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors within the limits 
communication, engagement with the Board etc.
approved by the shareholders. Further details are available 
in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Chairman was also evaluated based on the key 
aspects of his role. The performance evaluation of the 
During the year, the Board Nomination Criteria and 
Independent Directors was carried out by the entire Board. 
Remuneration Policy  was reviewed and amended in line 
The performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board as 
with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
a whole and the Non-Independent Directors was carried 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
th
out by the Independent Directors at their separate meeting 
dated 12  December 2024.
held during the year.
The Board Nomination criteria and the Remuneration 
39
Annual Report 2024-25
policy are available on the website of the Company at
(PW) as the Statutory Auditors of the Company to hold 
th
office from the conclusion of 40  Annual General Meeting 
th
a n d
until the conclusion of the 45  Annual General Meeting 
(AGM).
As required under Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations, 
the Auditors have confirmed that they hold a valid 
certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute 
The Audit Committee of the Board comprises four 
of Chartered Accountants of India.
members out of which three (3) are independent.            
The Report given by M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered 
Mr. L Ramkumar is the Chairman and other members are 
Accountants LLP on the Financial Statements of the 
Mrs. Hima Srinivas, Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao and          
st
Company for the year ended 31  March 2025 is provided in 
Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan. During the year, six (6) Audit 
the financial section of the Annual Report.
Committee meetings were held, the details of which are 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks 
or disclaimers given by the Auditors in their report. The 
auditors have commented on the availability of the audit 
trail at the application level for modification to which the 
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, read 
Company’s response is as follows:
with Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 and 
The Company is using SAP software for maintaining its 
amendments thereof, the Company is required to maintain 
books of accounts. SAP software keeps a complete record 
cost accounting records in respect of products of the 
of all changes made to the system’s data for front-end 
Company covered under CETA category of Machinery & 
transactions, thereby audit trail is ensured. The Company 
Mechanical appliances. Further, the cost accounting 
has already activated the audit trail at SQL Data base level 
records maintained by the Company are required to be 
where it has started to capture all the logs. There is no 
audited.
direct access for server and SQL database, other than 
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit 
super admin, where  evidences are stored. The activated 
Committee, re-appointed M/s. B Y & Associates (Firm No. 
audit trails capture the login details and change logs at 
003498), Cost Accountants, Chennai to audit the cost 
frequent intervals to ensure that changes are captured in 
accounting records maintained by the Company under the 
the database level. Further, the audit trail has been 
said Rules for FY 2024-25 at a remuneration of 
preserved by the Company as per the statutory 
Rs.1,00,000/-. Further, they have been re-appointed by the 
requirements for record retention. The Company has 
Board to conduct the cost audit for the FY 2025-26 at an 
initiated the migration to S/4 Hana where the audit trail 
enhanced remuneration of Rs. 1,10,000/- plus out of 
would be in-built with additional features. 
pocket expenses incurred in connection with the audit.
During the year under review, the Auditors have not 
The Companies Act, 2013, mandates that the 
reported any matter under Section 143(12) of the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is to be ratified by 
Companies Act, 2013, and hence there are no details to be 
the shareholders. Accordingly, a resolution seeking the 
disclosed under Section 134(3)(ca) of the Act.
shareholders’ ratification of the remuneration payable to 
There were no material changes or commitments affecting 
the Cost Auditor for the FY 2025-26 is included in the notice 
rd 
the financial position after the end of the financial year and 
convening the 43 Annual General Meeting.
date of this report.
M/s. Srinidhi Sridharan & Associates, Practicing Company 
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, 
Secretaries, Chennai was appointed as the Secretarial 
the Company, with the approval of the shareholders at the 
Auditor to undertake the Secretarial Audit of the Company 
nd
Annual General Meeting held on 22  July 2022,               
for the FY 2024-25. The report of the Secretarial Auditor for 
re-appointed M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered 
st
year ended 31  March 2025 is annexed to and forms part of 
Accountants LLP (Reg. No. FRN 012754N/ N500016) 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/ 
cri te r i a - f o r - b o a r d - n o m i n a t i o n - 2 0 2 5 . p d f 
 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/ 
Remuneration-Policy.pdf
COMPOSITION OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
COST AUDITORS
STATUTORY AUDITORS AND AUDITORS' 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT
REPORT
40
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
this Report as Annexure F. There are no qualifications, 
reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers given by the 
Mr. Ninad Gadgil, Executive Director & Chief Executive 
Secretarial Auditor in the Report.
Officer and Mr. Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia, Chief 
In line with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Financial Officer have submitted a certificate to the Board 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
on the integrity of the financial statements and other 
th
dated 12  December 2024, the Company is required to 
matters as required under Regulation 17(8) of the Listing 
appoint a Secretarial Auditor with the approval of the 
Regulations.
Shareholders for a term upto five (5) years. Pursuant to 
Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, the Board of 
rd
Directors at their meeting held on 23  April 2025, based on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee, have 
The Company has a well-established whistle blower policy 
recommended the appointment of M/s. Sridharan & 
as part of vigil mechanism for Directors and employees to 
Sridharan Associates (Firm registration number: 
report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or 
P2022TN093500)to hold office for a term of five (5) 
suspected fraud or violation of the Company's Code of 
consecutive years from FY 2025-26 to FY 2029-30 at a 
conduct or ethics policy. This mechanism also provides for 
remuneration of Rs. 1,00,000/- excluding out of pocket 
adequate safeguards against victimisation of 
expenses incurred by them in connection with the Audit 
Director(s)/employee(s) who avail of the mechanism and 
and applicable taxes.
provides for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
In terms of Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, there 
Committee in exceptional cases. The Whistle blower policy 
is no material unlisted subsidiary incorporated in India. 
is available on the Company's website at 
Material unlisted subsidiary for the purpose of this 
It is affirmed that during 
Regulation is a subsidiary whose turnover/net worth 
the year, no employee was denied access to the Audit 
exceeds 20 per cent of the consolidated turnover/net worth 
Committee.
respectively of the Company and its subsidiaries in the 
immediately preceding accounting year. Hence, the 
requirement prescribed under Regulation 24A of the 
Listing Regulations is not applicable to the Company, in so 
The Annual Return in Form MGT-7 is available at 
far as material subsidiary is concerned.
The Company is in compliance with the Secretarial 
Standard on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1)and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2).
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Board, to the best of its 
The compliance management system tracks compliances 
knowledge and belief and according to the information and 
across the Company and has a comprehensive coverage 
explanations obtained by it confirm that:
of the various applicable laws including auto updation 
based on the regulatory changes from time to time.
•
in the preparation of the annual accounts for the 
st 
financial year ended 31 March 2025, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed and there 
have been no material departures from the same;
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the 
•
they have selected appropriate accounting policies and 
Listing Regulations, a separate section on Corporate 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
Governance including the certificate from a Practicing 
Company Secretary confirming compliance is annexed to 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to 
and forms an integral part of this Report.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company as at the end of the financial year and of the 
CEO/CFO CERTIFICATE
VIGIL MECHANISM UNDER WHISTLE 
BLOWER POLICY
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ 
Whistle-Blower-Policy_Wendt.pdf 
ANNUAL RETURN
h t t p s : / / w e n d t i n d i a . c o m / w p -
content/uploads/2025/06/Annual-Return-Form-MGT-
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
7.pdf
D I R E C T O R S '   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y  
STATEMENT
COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT
    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
41
Annual Report 2024-25
profits of the Company for that period;
•
proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
The information on employees and other details required 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
to be disclosed under Rule 5 of the Companies 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
2013, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 is annexed to and forms part of 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
this Report as Annexure D.
irregularities;
•
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
concern basis;
No application under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 (IBC) was made on the Company during the 
•
proper internal financial controls have been laid down 
year. Further, no proceeding under the IBC was initiated 
to be followed by the Company and that such internal 
st
or is pending as at 31  March 2025. There was no instance 
financial controls are adequate and were operating 
of one-time settlement with any Bank or Financial 
effectively;
Institution.
•
proper systems have been devised to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
The Board gratefully acknowledges the co-operation 
effectively;
received from various stakeholders of the Company viz., 
customers, suppliers, partners, banks, government and 
other statutory authorities, auditors, business associates 
and shareholders. The Directors extend their gratitude to 
all the regulatory agencies like SEBI, Registrar of 
Companies, Stock Exchanges and other Central and 
The information on energy conservation, technology 
State Government authorities/agencies, vendors and 
absorption, expenditure incurred on Research & 
sub-contracting partners for their support. The Board also 
Development and forex earnings/outgo as required under 
acknowledges the unstinted co-operation, commitment 
Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
and dedication made by all the employees of the 
Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is 
Company in the previous financial year.
annexed to and forms part of this Report as Annexure A.
The Directors also wish to place on record their gratitude 
to the members of the Company for their unrelenting 
support & confidence.
There are no significant and material orders passed by the 
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status of the Company and its future operations.
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
OTHER CONFIRMATIONS
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
ENERGY CONSERVATION, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS & OUTGO
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS 
PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR 
COURTS
On behalf of the Board 
For Wendt (India) Limited
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York
April 23, 2025
42
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
a)
Conservation of Energy
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP).This initiative promotes 
sustainable water management by reducing freshwater 
The Company does not fall under the category of power 
consumption and supporting circular water usage 
intensive industries. However, the Company adopts 
within the facility.
sustained efforts to reduce energy consumption. The 
organisation is ISO14001 certified. ISO14001 is an 
•
Rainwater harvesting implemented through a 
International Management System Standard (IMS) on 
percolation pond with a storage capacity of 1.27 million 
Environment Management. The environmental policy of 
litres.
the Company focuses on conservation of natural resources 
•
Conversion of all wash basin water taps into sensor 
and minimisation of pollution. The following energy 
type to reduce water consumption.
conservation measures were undertaken by the Company 
•
Installed two 500KLD solar water heaters for vessel 
during the year:
washing.
•
Installation of solar power of 260kWp at the Company's 
•
Treated the domestic and trade effluents and reused 
plant in Hosur. 
the treated water for gardening and electroplating 
•
Introduction of poly carbonate sheet at Mezzanine 
processes, achieving zero liquid discharge.
areas. 
During the year 2024-25,a capital investment of Rs. 126 
•
Introduction of six motorless natural turbo ventilators, 
Lakhs (Previous year Rs. 160 Lakhs) was made on energy 
two MTD Stairs and two Fire Hydrant room.
conservation equipment.
•
Installed Energy monitoring System (EMS) to monitor 
b) Technology Absorption, Adaptation, and 
the energy consumption for each unit.
Innovation
-
This system automates power generation and 
The Company has prioritised the continuous professional 
distribution monitoring, eliminating manual 
development of its workforce, focusing on advanced 
processes and ensuring precise, real-time data 
training in digital marketing and the integration of 
capture. 
information technology and digital tools. These efforts aim 
-
In addition to operational efficiency, the EMS 
to augment traditional customer engagement strategies, 
provides insights into energy usage patterns, 
delivering cost-effective solutions and enhancing overall 
associated costs, and potential areas for savings 
customer experience.
and optimisation.
The Company’s Research and Development (R&D) 
•
Ugraded Air conditioners to enhance energy efficiency, 
function has undertaken significant initiatives to advance 
reduce electricity consumption and contribute to overall 
its technological capabilities, particularly in the field of 
sustainability goals.
Super Abrasives. This includes the development and 
patenting of innovative concepts and designs to establish 
•
Installed auto Drain Valve for all the Air Receiver Tanks 
leadership in Super Abrasive technology. Additionally, the 
for reducing air consumption.
R&D team focused on creating indigenised bonding 
•
Reused 3058.7 KL of treated water from the Effluent 
systems tailored to diverse applications within the Super 
Treatment Plant (ETP) and 9,037.4 KL from the 
Abrasive division.
ANNEXURES TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
ANNEXURE A
REPORT ON ENERGY CONSERVATION, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS 
& OUTGO
43
Annual Report 2024-25
Collaborative efforts between the Company’s in-house 
The Company’s R&D center is recognised by the 
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) 
R&D unit and esteemed academic institutions and 
under the Ministry of Science and Technology, 
laboratories are in place to further strengthen the 
st 
Government of India. This accreditation, valid until 31
technological foundation. These partnerships facilitate the 
March 2026, underscores the Company’s commitment to 
refinement of existing manufacturing processes and the 
rigorous scientific advancement and industrial innovation.
adoption of novel techniques. The expanded 
Industrial R&D serves as a cornerstone of the Company’s 
implementation of these advanced manufacturing 
innovation ecosystem, fostering the development of 
technologies has driven increased demand for the 
transformative technologies and capabilities. By 
Company’s products across multiple industries, including 
integrating fundamental and applied research, the R&D 
division enhances the understanding of product 
bearings & guideways, gears, camshafts and crankshafts, 
performance and pushes the boundaries of Super 
as well as sectors such as semiconductors, biomedical, 
Abrasive technologies. In this context, the R&D team has 
aerospace, cutting tools, engineering, and automotive.
pursued the development of grinding wheels for valve stem 
The Company benefits from the extensive expertise, 
cut-off, belt grinding and wheels for semiconductor (Silicon 
knowledge base and R&D infrastructure of its promoter 
wafer & Ingot) applications. 
shareholder, Carborundum Universal Limited, a 
The Company has strategically focused on addressing 
recognised leader in conventional Abrasives and Material 
process development gaps to drive operational excellence. 
sciences. This collaboration supports targeted application 
The Company has successfully implemented advanced 
development in specialised domains. Notably, the 
methodologies, including hot press sintering, vacuum 
Company has not imported any technology and has also 
brazing, sophisticated powder filling techniques and 
not relied on imported technology over the past three 
enhanced electroplating processes to replace 
years, emphasising its commitment to indigenous 
conventional approaches. These innovations have yielded 
innovation.
substantial reductions in cycle time while simultaneously 
During the financial year, the Company entered into a 
elevating product quality, resulting in both economic 
technology transfer agreement with Wendt GmbH, one of 
efficiencies and effectiveness in our manufacturing 
the Promoters of the Company for manufacturing 
operations.
peripheral grinding machines for insert grinding 
The following are the benefits accruing out of R&D 
applications. This technology will help the Company to tap 
activities:
into the global market for peripheral insert grinding 
machines with a strategic focus on the sale of new 
1. Indigenisation of bonds for Super Abrasives and import 
machines, service revenue and upgrade the installed 
substitution.
machines worldwide.
2. Development of grinding wheels for semiconductor & 
medical applications.
3. Upgrading Manufacturing Technologies to match the 
changing needs of the customer and venture into new 
The Research and Development function of the Company 
markets.
drives innovation by spearheading the creation and 
enhancement of Super Abrasive products and services. Its 
4. Development of precision products for auto and non-
primary objective is to advance materials science and 
auto industries like compressors and hydraulic pumps.
machining techniques to design and develop novel 
The Company primarily serves specialised niche markets 
processes and products, delivering comprehensive 
where most of our customer base consists of Original 
grinding solutions to meet customer needs. Through these 
Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) seeking technologically 
efforts, the R&D function facilitates the development of 
advanced products with consistent performance 
next-generation products and the continuous improvement 
standards. These customers regard the Company as a 
of existing offerings and operational methodologies.
    RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
44
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
Sl.No.
Expenditure on R&D
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(Rs.in lakhs)
a)
Capital Expenditure
166
28
b)
Recurring (revenue expenditure)
390
270
c)
Total Expenditure
556
298
d)
Total R&D Expenditure as a percentage of turnover
2.62%
1.44%
Sl.No.
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(Rs.in lakhs)
a)
Foreign Exchange Used
7885
3883
b)
Foreign Exchange Earned
4404
4988
On behalf of the Board 
For Wendt (India) Limited
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York
April 23, 2025
comprehensive "One-Stop Shop for complete grinding 
centric approach, the Company effectively addresses the 
solutions”, offering superior technology with reliable 
dynamic needs and evolving expectations of our clientele. 
performance outcomes.
This strategic focus not only secures our market position 
but also substantiates the premium pricing structure of our 
Through the Company’s unwavering commitment to 
product offerings.
research and development, coupled with the customer-
45
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE B 
FORM AOC-2
(Pursuant to clause(h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 ('the Act') and Rule8(2) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related 
parties referred to in sub section (1) of section 188 of the Act including certain arm's length transaction under 
third proviso there to
1. Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm's length basis : Nil
2. Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm's length basis: Nil
a)
Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship
b)
Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions
c)
Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions
d)
Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any
e)
Justification for entering in to such contracts or arrangements or transactions
f)
Date of approval by the Board
g)
Amount paid as advances, if any
h)
Date on which the special resolution was passed in General meeting as required under first 
proviso to section188
Nil
a)
Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship
b)
Nature of contracts/arrangements/transaction
c)
Duration of the contracts/arrangements/transactions
d)
Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transaction including the value, if any
e)
Date of approval by the Board
f)
Amount paid as advances, if any
Nil
On behalf of the Board 
For Wendt (India) Limited
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York
April 23, 2025
46
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
ANNEXURE C
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES
1.
Brief outline on CSR policy
of the Company
The Company recognises the importance of a sustainable growth benefiting 
all stakeholders including the society in which it operates. CSR is imbibed into 
its values and beliefs and all business activities even before the spend was 
mandated. The Company continues to perform its CSR obligations directly in 
the field of Education and Healthcare focused on creating sustainable, long-
term impact in underserved communities, in line with the CSR Annual Action 
Plan and the CSR Policy of the Company.
In line with its objectives and practices, the CSR policy focuses on Health and 
Education. The policy is uploaded in the website of the Company.
2. Composition of CSR Committee
Sl.
No.
Name of the Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings
of CSR Committee
held during the year
Number of meetings of
CSR Committee
attended during the year
1.
2.
3.
4.
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar*
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan
Chairperson / Independent
& Non-Executive Director
Member / Independent &
Non-Executive Director 
Member / Independent &
Non-Executive Director
Member /Non-Independent
& Non-Executive Director
2
1
2
2
2
1
2
2
rd
*Ceased to be a Member with effect from 23  July 2024.
3.
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved
by the board are disclosed on the website of the company:
(i)
Composition of the CSR Committee: 
(ii) CSR Policy: 
(iii) CSR Projects: 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Committee-
Composition.pdf
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/csrpolicy.pdf
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/CSR-projects-for-the-FY-2024-25.pdf
4.
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of
Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance 
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable.
Not applicable
5.
(a) Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section
Rs. 4707.18 Lakhs
(5) of Section 135
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per
Rs. 94,14,352
sub-section (5) of section 135
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes
-
or activities of the previous financial years
(d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
-
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year[(b)+(c)-(d)]
Rs. 94,14,352
47
Annual Report 2024-25
6. (a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than ongoing Project*): Rs. 94,26,800
      
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year
  : Nil
*The details of the projects are given as annexure.
b. Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
-
c. Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
-
d. Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]
Rs.94,26,800
(e). CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount
Spent for the 
Financial Year
(in Rs.)
Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
Total Amount transferred to
Unspent CSR Account as per
sub-section (6) of section 135.
Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Schedule VII as per second proviso to 
sub-section (5) Section 135.
Amount (in Rs.)
Date of transfer
Name of the
Fund
Amount (in Rs.)
Date of transfer
Nil
94,26,800
(f). Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl.
No.
Particular
Amount 
(in Rs.)
(i) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
94,14,352
(ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year
94,26,800
(iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
12,448
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any
-
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
12,448
7. Details of Unspent Corporate Social responsibility amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl.
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Preceding
Financial
Year(s)
Amount
transferred
to Unspent
CSR 
Account
under sub-
section (6)
of section
135 (in Rs.)
Balance
Amount in 
unspent 
CSR 
Account
under sub-
section 
(6) of
Section
135 (in Rs.)
Amount
spent 
in the
Financial 
year 
(in Rs.)
Amount transferred to a
fund as specified under
Schedule VII as per second
proviso to sub-section (5) of
section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining
to be spent in
succeeding
financial 
years. (in Rs.)
Deficiency,
if any
Amount
(in Rs.)
Date of
transfer
1
2
3
FY-1- 2023-24
FY-2- 2022-23
FY-3- 2021-22
-
12,00,500
-
-
-
-
-
12,00,500*
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
*Spent in FY 2023-24 
48
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
8.
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the Financial Year: No
If yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired: NA
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the Financial Year:
Sl.
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete address
and location of the property]
(1)
(2)
Pincode
of the 
property
or 
asset(s)
(3)
Date 
of 
creation
Amount
of CSR 
amount 
spent
(4)
(5)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of 
the registered owner
(6)
CSR Registration
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
Office
Nil
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal 
Corporation/ Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9.
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
section 135(5): Not applicable
Annexure to CSR Report
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
Sl.
No.
Name of the 
Project
Location of
the project
State District
Amount
spent for
the project
(in Rs.)
Mode of
implemen-
tation
-  Direct 
(Yes / No)
Mode of 
implementation - 
Through 
implementing
agency.
Name
CSR 
registration
number*
1.
Construction of class
rooms, undertaking 
school lighting & pipe 
line work and provision 
of RO system for drinking
water to PUP school 
Peddaelasagiri, Hosur.
Item from
the list of
activities
in schedule
VII to the 
Act.
Local
Area
(Yes 
/ No)
Promoting
Education
Yes
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
20,00,289
Yes
-
Bengaluru
April 23, 2025
Hima Srinivas
Chairperson - CSR Committee
07556717
Ninad Gadgil
Executive Director & CEO
08707884
For and on behalf of the Board
Hosur
April 23, 2025
49
Annual Report 2024-25
2.
Provision of Desks, 
Chairs, Benches and
Smart Board to PUP
School Matham, Hosur.
Promoting
Education
Yes
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
8,33,670
Yes
-
3.
4.
5.
6.
Provision of Table & Chairs
for Teachers, Smart Board,
Desk & Bench and Photocopy
machine to PUP School,
Bedarapalli, Hosur.
Provision of Teachers
Table & Chairs PUP School,
Arasanatti, Hosur.
Construction of Prayer Stage
at PUP School Chinna 
Eleasagiri, Hosur.
Provision of Tables, Chairs,
Wall poster, Bizhub, Electrical
items, Stationaries, Books,
Projector & Computer, Smart
TV and TV stand and electrical
& interior work to Urdu Hr. Sec.
School, Hosur.
Promoting
Education
Promoting
Education
Promoting
Education
Promoting
Education
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
5,99,204
48,144
85,764
8,20,091
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
-
-
-
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Construction of class
rooms and wash rooms to PUP
School - Begepalli, Hosur.
Provision of computers, RO System,
Smart Class, Projector System to
Sri Sathya Sai Bala Gurukulam
Matriculation School, Hosur.
Provision of a medical
equipment to Govt. Hospital,
Hosur.
Provision of RO Purifier, 
Desks & Benches to PUP
School - Zuzuvadi, Hosur.
Provision of stationeries to
government schools in and
around plant location in Hosur.
Promoting
Education
Promoting
Education
Promoting
Healthcare
Promoting
Education
Education
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
Krishnagiri,
Tamil Nadu
27,30,336
9,93,159
7,48,827
4,84,980
82,336
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
Total
94,26,800
50
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl.
No.
Name and Age
Designation/
Nature of duties
Gross 
remuneration
paid(Rs.)
Qualification
& experience
(years)
Date of
commencement
of employment
Previous
employment
Mukesh Kumar
Hamirwasia (53)
Rathinam P (54)
Uday R B (56)
1.
2.
3.
Senior AVP &
CFO
Associate
Vice President
Super Abrasives
Manufacturing
Associate
Vice President -
Sales & Marketing
70,36,307
53,19,158
44,11,937
B.Com(Hons.),
ACA, AICWA
(27 years)
M. Tech 
(33 years)
M.Tech
(32 years)
15-04-2010
08-06-1992
17-01-2005
Ecom Gill Coffee
Trading Private
Limited
Nil
Sundram
Fasteners
Limited
Amit Kumar Gupta
(53)
4.
General Manager
- SA Marketing
(Domestic)
36,21,375
B.E Mechanical
Engineering
(29 years)
27-01-2003
Diato India
Private Limited
Raghunatha
Naidu B P (57)
5.
General Manager
- MTD
33,70,570
B.E, MBA
(30 years)
09-06-2004
Indicarb Limited
Satheesh C (53)
6.
General Manager
- Human Resources
33,58,905
B.Sc., PGDPM
(30 years)
17-08-2016
Carborundum
Universal Limited
Margabandu V S
(50)
Chandrappa K
(51)
Ramesh Kumar B
(49)
Sanjaya S C (55)
7.
8.
9.
10.
Deputy General
Manager - Finance
& Accounts
Assistant General
Manager - PP
Marketing
Assistant General
Manager - MTD
Manufacturing
Assistant General
Manager - 
Quality Control
29,74,440
26,40,010
24,69,265
21,33,440
M.Com, AICWA,
ACS
(28 Years)
B.Tech
Mechanical
(27 Years)
B.S Engg Tech,
MBA (30 Years)
B.E. Mechanical
(30 Years)
08-03-1997
22-07-2004
26-09-2003
16-05-2019
Nil
Parishud M/C
Private Limited
Tahafet Fiber
Exports
Aditya Auto
Engineering
Pvt Ltd
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
ANNEXURE D
STATEMENT OF EMPLOYEES' REMUNERATION
A. The details of top ten Employees (employed throughout the year) in terms of remuneration drawn during 
the financial year 2024-25 as per Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 duly amended by the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Amendment Rules, 2016 are as follows:
51
Annual Report 2024-25
B. Details of employees who were employed for part of the year and earning eight lakh and fifty thousand 
rupees per month apart from the top ten employees:
Sl.
No.
Name and Age
Designation/
Nature of duties
Gross 
remuneration
paid(Rs.)
Qualification
& experience
(years)
Date of
commencement
of employment
Previous
employment
Srikanth C (59)*
Ninad Gadgil (54)
1.
2.
Executive Director
& Chief Executive
Officer
Executive Director
& Chief Executive
Officer
43,78,804
1,60, 29,047
B.E/MBA
(39 Years)
BE (Electronics)
& PGDBM
(Marketing)
(30)
01-04-2021
06-05-2024
Carborundum
Universal
Limited
Carborundum
Universal
Limited
th
* Resigned w.e.f. 5  May 2024.
a)
Remuneration shown above includes salary, allowances, Company's contribution to provident, superannuation and gratuity 
funds, medical facilities and perquisites valued as per income tax rules.
b)
The employment of the above persons is whole-time in nature and terminable with 3 months' notice on either side.
c)
The above mentioned employees are not relatives (in terms of the Companies Act, 2013) of any Director of the Company. 
Further, no employee of the Company is covered by the Rule 5(2) (iii) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (employee holding by himself or with his family shares of 2% or more in the Company and 
drawing remuneration in excess of the Managing Director). Hence, the details required under Rule 5(3) (viii )is not applicable.
st
d)
The remuneration details are for the financial year 2024-25 and all other particulars are as on 31   March 2025.
e)
None of the employees of the Company other than those listed above were in receipt of remuneration for the FY 2024-25 in 
excess of one crore and two lakh rupees per year or eight lakh and fifty thousand rupees per month. With respect to the employee 
who was employed for part of the year and received remuneration not less than eight lakhs and fifty thousand per month whose 
details are disclosed above.
C. The details of remuneration during the year 2024-25 as per Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment & 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 as amended by the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Amendment Rules, 2016 as are as follows:
(i)
Ratio of remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
financial year:
Name
Designation
Ratio
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Hima Srinivas
MuthiahVenkatachalam
L Ramkumar
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Chairman and Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Executive Director and CEO
 1.32
 1.48
0.97
 0.78
 -   
 23.29
52
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
(ii)
Percentage increase in the remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Company Secretary in the financial year:
Name
Designation
Increase (%)
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Hima Srinivas
Muthiah Venkatachalam
L Ramkumar@
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil@
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P**
Chairman & Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Executive Director and CEO
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
 12.35 
 10.87 
 8.06 
-
-
-
12.09
-
@ not comparable since they joined the Board during the Financial year.
**deputed from Carborundum Universal Limited.
The remuneration paid to Non-Executive and Independent Directors comprises commission and sitting fees for 
attending the meetings of the Board/committees which remain unaltered during the year. The increase in the 
remuneration paid to the Directors is due to more number of meetings held during the financial year.
(iii) Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 11.67 per cent increase in 
median remuneration of employees (employees who were in employment for the whole of FY 2024-25 & whole 
of FY 2023-24 considered for this purpose in the respective financial years).
st
(iv) Number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as on 31  March 2025: 391
(v) The average annual increase in salaries of employees was 11.43% compared to an increase in managerial 
remuneration of 19.8%. The increase in the Managerial remuneration is primarily due to increase in the 
remuneration of Executive Director and increase in the managerial remuneration owing to more meeting held 
during the financial year. Hence, the confirmation with respect to exceptional circumstances for increase in 
managerial remuneration does not arise.
(vi) Annual increase in employee's remuneration is based on Company and individual performance. The individual 
performance parameters vary based on employee cadres.
(vii) The Company affirms that the remuneration is in compliance with its Remuneration policy.
On behalf of the Board
For Wendt (India) Limited
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York
April 23, 2025
53
Annual Report 2024-25
1.
2.
3.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
Name of the Listed Entity
Year of incorporation
E-mail
Telephone
Website
Financial year for which reporting is being done
L85110KA1980PLC003913
Wendt (India) Limited
st
21  August 1980
4.
Registered office address
Flat No. 105, Cauvery Block National
Games Housing complex, Koramangala,
Bengaluru, Karnataka-560 047
5.
Corporate address
69/70, SIPCOT Industrial Area, Hosur,
Tamil Nadu - 635126
wil@wendtindia.com
04344-405500/ 04344-276851/52
https://www.wendtindia.com/
st
st
1  April 2024 to 31  March 2025
10.
11.
12.
13.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
Paid-up Capital
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person
who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a
standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e.
for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated
financial statements, taken together)
BSE Limited,
National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
20 lakh equity shares of Rs. 10 each
aggregating to Rs. 2 crores 
Mr. Arjun Raj P, Company Secretary
044-30006142 
arjunrajp@wendtindia.com
Yes, the disclosure under this report
is made on a standalone basis.
 
14.
15.
Name of assessment or assurance provider
Type of assessment or assurance obtained
Not Applicable (NA)
Sl.
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of
Business Activity
% of Turnover
of the entity
1.
2.
3.
Manufacture of Super Abrasive Grinding wheels
Manufacture of Special purpose Grinding and
Honing Machines
Manufacture of Precision components
Sale of Super Abrasive Grinding wheels
Sale and services of Machines
including spares
Sale of Precision components
66
21
13
17. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sl.
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total
Turnover contributed
1.
2.
3.
Super Abrasives
Machine Tools
Precision components
23993
25920
28299
66
21
13
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details of the listed entity
II. 
Products/services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
ANNEXURE E
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
54
Annual Report 2024-25
III. Operations
Location
Number of Plants
National
International
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Number of offices
Total
2
0
3
0
5
0
19. Markets served by the entity:
The major industry sectors served include both domestic and international markets like USA, Europe, South East Asia, 
Australia-Automobile, Glass, Vitreous tiles, Cutting Tools, Ceramics, Refractory, Machine OEMs, Defence, Engineering, 
Steel, Bearing, Prints, Papers, Auto components and Aerospace.
a.   Number of locations
Locations
National
(No. of States)
International
(No. of Countries)
Number
On a standalone basis, the Company carries on manufacturing operations in Hosur,
Tamil Nadu and Pune, Maharashtra & has its registered office in Bengaluru, Karnataka.
On a consolidated basis, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary Wendt Grinding
Technologies Limited carries manufacturing operations in Thailand.
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
Rs. 4362 Lakhs (21% of the  total turnover for FY 2024-25).
c. A brief on types of customers
The Company caters to a diverse range of customers both domestic & overseas across various industries, predominantly 
serving B2B customers - supplying Super Abrasive Grinding Wheels, Special Purpose Grinding and Honing Machines and 
Precision Components. The major customers belong to Auto, Auto Ancillaries, Steel, Cutting Tools, Engineering, Refractory, 
Ceramics, Defence, Aerospace, Construction etc. 
20.Details as at the end of Financial Year: 2024-25
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):
IV. Employees
Sl.
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
% (C / A)
No. (C )
EMPLOYEES
Permanent (D)
Other than Permanent (E)
Total employees (D + E)
1.
2.
3.
202
-
202
187
-
187
93%
-
93%
15
-
15
7%
-
7%
WORKERS
Permanent (F)
Other than Permanent (G)
Total workers (F + G)
4.
5.
6.
189
107
296
185
89
274
98%
83%
93%
4
18
22
2%
17%
7%
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
55
Annual Report 2024-25
b. Differently abled employees and workers:
Sl.
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
% (C / A)
No. (C )
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
Permanent (D)
Other than Permanent (E)
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
1.
2.
3.
3
-
3
3
-
3
100%
-
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
Permanent (F)
Other than Permanent (G)
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
4.
5.
6.
1
-
1
1
-
1
100%
-
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
No. and percentage of Females
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
Key Management Personnel
6
3*
1
-
17%
-
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Permanent 
Employees
* includes CEO, CFO and CS.
FY 2024-25
(Turnover rate 
in current FY)
FY 2023-24
(Turnover rate
in previous FY)
FY 2022-23
(Turnover rate in the year
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Male
Male
Female
Female
Female
Total
Total
Total
5.58%
1.55%
12.30%
3.10%
14.84%
2.45%
Permanent 
Workers
0.93%
-
1%
-
1.10%
0.49%
6.51%
1.55%
13.30%
3.10%
15.94%
2.94%
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Name of the holding /
subsidiary / associate
companies / joint
ventures (A)
Sl.
No.
Indicate whether
holding / Subsidiary/
Associate/
Joint Venture
% of shares
held by
listed entity
Does the entity indicated at column
A, participate in the Business
Responsibility initiatives of the
listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Wendt Grinding Technologies
Limited (WGTL), Thailand
Subsidiary
100%
No
VI. CSR Details
24. 
(i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) : Yes
(ii) Turnover (in Rs.)  
: Rs. 21196 lakhs
(iii) Net worth (in Rs.)  
: Rs. 22277 lakhs
56
Annual Report 2024-25
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder
group from
whom
complaint
is received
Grievance
Redressal
Mechanism in
Place (Yes/No)
(If Yes, then
provide
web-link for
grievance
redress
policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of
complaints
filed during
the year
Number of
complaints
filed during
the year
Number of
complaints
pending
resolution
at close of
the year
Number of
complaints
pending
resolution
at close of
the year
Remarks
Remarks
Communities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Shareholders
Other (please
specify)
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Note1 
Community Grievances
:
Note 2
Shareholder and Investor Grievance
: 
Note 3
Employees, Workers and Value Chain
: 
Note 4
Customer Grievances
: 
https://wendtindia.com/contact-us/
https://wendtindia.com/investors/
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/Whistel-
blower-policy.pdf
https://wendtindia.com/contact-us/
Yes, 
a mechanism
is in place to 
interact with 
community and
to understand
their concerns,
if any
Investors
(other than
shareholders)
Yes - Refer Note
2
5
-
-
Value Chain
Partners
Yes - Refer Note
3
Customers
Yes - Refer Note
4
Employees
and workers
Yes - Refer Note
3
Yes - Refer Note
2
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
57
Annual Report 2024-25
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
Sl.
No.
Material
issue
identified
Indicate
whether
risk or
opportunity
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach
to adapt or mitigate
Financial
implications
of the risk or
opportunity
(Indicate
positive or
negative
implications)
1
2
Employee
turnover
(attrition)
Technology
Risk 
R
R/O
High employee attrition leads
to loss of knowledge and
expertise, leading to reduced
productivity. Also, high
employee attrition impacts
Company’s brand image and 
its ability to attract, develop,
motivate and retain talent
critical to business success. 
Technology is ever changing
and plays a vital role in our
operations from process
automation and quality 
control to supply chain 
management and customer 
engagement. Failure to keep 
a b r e a s t  w i t h  l a t e s t  
technological changes could 
p o s e  a  c o m p e t i t i v e  
disadvantage and impact 
Company's ability to meet 
customer demands. Further, 
in this digital world, threats 
like cyber-attacks and data 
breaches could result in 
financial losses, reputational 
damages which could impact 
the brand reputation of the 
Company.
As the Company is an engineering,
knowledge based Company,
Employees are its most precious
assets. It places great emphasis
on human capital for sustainable
business operations. Therefore,
the Company provides training
and development programs to
employees to enhance and develop
their skills. Job rotation is practiced
to ensure right person is in the right
job. Employees are rewarded based
on performance and recognition
mechanism. Also, feedback 
emerging from performance 
appraisal is addressed by dedicated 
training  programs.
Company invests in Research and
Development to mitigate the
technology related risks and has a
Department of Scientific and 
Industrial Research (DSIR) approved 
R&D facility in house towards this. 
The R&D focusses on improving our 
processes and products and develop 
innovative solutions meeting the 
evolving needs of the customers. The 
Company is taking steps to 
strengthen its cyber security 
measures to protect data and 
infrastructure assets.
Negative
Positive
58
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl.
No.
Material
issue
identified
Indicate
whether
risk or
opportunity
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach
to adapt or mitigate
Financial
implications
of the risk or
opportunity
(Indicate
positive or
negative
implications)
3
4
5
Environmental
Footprint: Air,
Water, Waste,
climate change,
Greenhouse
gas (GHG)
emission
Corporate
Governance-
Board oversight,
conflict of
interest, Ethics,
Risk and
Compliance
(Transparency
and disclosure)
Social
Responsibility:
Alignment with
local
communities 
R
O/R
R
Environmental risks like air, 
water pollution, waste 
generation and disposal, 
climate change and resource 
s c a r c i t y  c a n  i m p a c t  
Company's operations and 
disrupt the business. Failure 
to comply with environmental 
regulations can lead to 
imposition of fines, penalties 
and legal action leading to 
reputational damages. 
Strong corporate governance 
is the core to achieve 
s u s t a i n a b l e  b u s i n e s s  
operations. The identification 
of risks, opportunities, 
operating procedures, 
monitoring, checking and 
verification systems helps 
organisation to ensure 
business continuity, and build 
trust and reputation.
The business must be rooted 
in community and be aligned 
with the community's larger 
interests. Any adversarial 
relationship can impact the 
Company’s ability to create 
long term value.
The Company is in process of 
investing in energy efficient 
technologies, reducing gas 
emissions, increasing water 
efficiency and mitigating the extreme 
climate risks like global warming. 
Though the Company is not a highly 
energy intensive Company, it has 
installed renewable energy solar 
power plant. The Company tracks 
and monitors all environmental 
regulations  through a Compliance 
Management system. 
In addition, the Company conducts 
regular environmental monitoring to 
ensure there is no threat to the 
environment and prevent any 
potential disruption to business 
operations.
Strong Corporate Governance is 
core to achieving the organisation's 
mission and any risks can undermine 
stakeholder trust, damage reputation 
and disrupt the business. The 
Company has well defined corporate 
governance structure.
Job creation, skill development, 
supporting local relief efforts, 
fostering local communities.
Negative
Positive/
Negative
Negative
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
59
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl.
No.
Material
issue
identified
Indicate
whether
risk or
opportunity
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach
to adapt or mitigate
Financial
implications
of the risk or
opportunity
(Indicate
positive or
negative
implications)
6
7
Market
preference
Data security
R/O
R
In today's dynamic world, 
customer preferences and 
needs are constantly 
e v o l v i n g .  F a i l u r e  t o  
understand and adapt to 
these changes could result in 
declining sales and market 
share, impacting financial 
performance and ability to 
meet stakeholders needs. 
Today's customers are 
focussed on sustainability 
a n d  e t h i c a l  b u s i n e s s  
practices. Failure to align 
business practices with the 
changed market preference 
can lead to lost business 
opportunities, legal liabilities 
and reputational damages.
Data security breaches can 
l e a d  t o  s i g n i f i c a n t  
reputational damages, 
financial loss, and legal 
penalties. The Company 
stores sensitive information 
like customer, supplier 
information, etc. If this 
information is compromised, 
it can result in loss of trust 
adversely impacting the 
reputation. 
The Company conducts market 
research and customer satisfaction 
survey to understand customer 
preference and expectation and 
adopts our products and services 
accordingly. 
The Company has implemented 
several measures like periodic cyber 
security assessments, data security 
policies and procedures, employee 
awareness to mitigate these risks. 
By proactively identifying and 
addressing this risk, the Company is 
committed to be operating in socially 
responsible and sustainable manner 
p r o t e c t i n g  r e p u t a t i o n  a n d  
maintaining trust.
Negative
/ Positive
Negative
60
Annual Report 2024-25
1a.Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover
each principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the MCA (Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs) advocates nine principles as below:
?
Principle1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
?
Principle2 : Businesses should provide goods and services in manner that is sustainable and safe.
?
Principle3 : Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
?
Principle4 : Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
?
Principle5 : Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
?
Principle6 : Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
?
Principle7 : Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent.
?
Principle8 : Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
?
Principle9 : Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management process
b.Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available
www.wendtindia.com
2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
The Company encourages its value chain partners to 
engage in responsible and sustainable business practices, 
taking into account their capabilities and resources.
6. Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
4. Name of the national and international codes/ 
certifications/labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) 
standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by 
your entity and mapped to each principle.
The Company has been certified for ISO 9001:2015, ISO 
14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018, EN13236, EN9100:2018, 
IATF 16949 Standards.
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
The Company has set a comprehensive sustainability targets
to reduce its overall environmental footprint by reducing
energy consumption and waste generation.
The Company has achieved progress with respect to its 
sustainability targets by carrying out the following activities:
1) Installation of roof top solar power plants in the Hosur 
factory.
2) Setting up zero liquid discharge systems and rainwater 
harvesting in addition to percolation pits to reuse water in 
production process.
3) Implementation of waste management process- waste 
collection, segregation, recycling, reuse, and disposal 
through certified vendors.
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
61
Annual Report 2024-25
7. Statement by director responsible for the 
business responsibility report, highlighting 
ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure)
8. Details of the highest authority responsible 
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility policy (ies).
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee 
of the Board/ Director responsible for 
decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
The Company recognises the significance of Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) factors in shaping a sustainable 
future for both business and society. Prioritisation of ESG 
considerations supports effective risk management, long-term 
value creation, and contributes to a more equitable and 
prosperous world.
The Company’s commitment to ESG is reflected in its 
comprehensive framework of policies and practices, including 
the Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider 
Trading, Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment, Whistle 
Blower Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, and the 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism.                                                                
The environment impact covers Climate resources (Energy, 
Water, Air), Waste management etc. The Company is 
committed conducting beneficial and fair business practices to 
the labour, human capital and the community. It provides 
employees and business associates with working conditions 
which are clean, safe, healthy and fair.                                                          
Overall, the Company’s commitment to sustainability and 
responsible corporate citizenship is an integral part of the 
business strategy and the Company believe that by pursuing 
these goals, it will not only create long term value for the 
stakeholders but also contribute to a more equitable and 
sustainable world.
Name
: Mr. Ninad Gadgil
Designation : Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
Governance, leadership and oversight
While the Company does not have a dedicated committee of the 
Board for sustainability related matters or issues, Mr. Ninad 
Gadgil, Executive Director and CEO continues to be the 
designated Director spearheading the sustainability objectives 
within the EHS framework for the Company.
Note: The Company encourages the value chain partners to embrace all the principles and incorporate sustainable 
business practices. The Company’s environmental, health and safety practices, labour and human rights, ethical 
business practices, and transparency policies apply to its value chain partners.
62
Annual Report 2024-25
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other
Committee
Frequency
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/
Any other - please specify)
P1
P1
P2
P2
P3
P3
P4
P4
P5
P5
P6
P6
P7
P7
P8
P8
P9
P9
Performance against
above policies and
follow up action
Compliance with
statutory requirements
of relevance to the
principles, and,
rectification of any
non-compliances
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Note: As a part of regular process, the department heads, functional heads, senior management review the Company’s 
policies to ensure their continued relevance and effectiveness. Any necessary adjustments to the policies and 
processes are made during these assessment, and the policies are presented to the Board of Directors as needed. The 
Company ensures adherence to applicable regulations and has established a compliance management system to this 
effect.
Q - Quarterly   Y - Yearly
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11. Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
yes, provide name of the agency.
No, the entity has not carried out an independent assessment 
of the working of its policies by an external agency. However, 
the Company has established a robust internal mechanism to 
ensure compliance with the standards and laws. This 
mechanism incorporates site level audits by internal and 
external persons including areas on environment, health, 
safety and quality management. The Company has partnered 
with ESG specialists to assess existing maturity levels and 
develop strategy to benchmark best practices and processes. 
The Company also undergoes validation by its customers on 
these parameters.
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business (Yes/No)
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human 
and technical resources available for the task 
(Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year 
(Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Questions
NA
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
63
Annual Report 2024-25
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1 : Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a 
manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Wendt (India) Limited is committed to high standards of business ethics and integrity. The Company has a "Zero 
Tolerance" Policy when it comes to deviation from ethical business conduct. The Company promotes transparency in 
business transactions with all its stakeholders including business partners.
The spirit of Murugappa group -The Five lights comprising Integrity, Passion, Quality, Respect & Responsibility governs 
all its business dealings. The Company has a code of conduct for its business operations and all the stakeholders 
connected with the Company as suppliers, contractors, business partners, associates, its personnel employed by the 
Company or engaged to provide services are required to be aligned with the same.
The Company and its subsidiary are governed by this philosophy in addition to the requirements of their Local 
Jurisdiction.
The Company's Anti-Sexual Harassment policy also provides guidelines and obligations for respectful behaviour at the 
workplace, that is free from discrimination and harassment. The Respectful Workplace principle ensures that the 
people are treated with dignity and respect in any workplace of the Company. Under the Company's POSH (Prevention 
of Sexual Harassment) policy which aligns with the Government of India's Sexual Harassment of Women at Work place 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Company has constituted specific internal committees at each 
of its locations to address complaints and concerns around Sexual Harassment.
While business activities are essential to facilitate human well-being, they can impact the 
environment and society in various ways. Responsible business conduct can go a long way 
to limit and mitigate these impacts. Therefore, businesses must balance the needs of people 
and the planet with the goal of prosperity. They must operate transparently, comply with 
regulations and stay accountable to their stakeholders.
WIL ‘s Material Topics
•
Business Ethics, Integrity & Transparency
•
Regulatory Issues & Compliance
•
Code of Conduct 
•
Economic Performance
Stakeholders
•
Employees
•
Investors
•
Government/Regulators
•
Suppliers
64
Annual Report 2024-25
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the 
financial year:
Segment
Board of
Directors
Key Managerial
Personnel
(KMP)
Employees
other than BOD 
& KMPs
Workers
Total number of training
and awareness
programmes held
45
Topics / principles covered under
the training and its impact
Whistle Blower Policy, BRSR, Prevention
of Sexual Harassment (POSH), Integrated 
Management System (IMS) Awareness, 
International Automotive Task Force (IATF)
Awareness,Sustainability Practices.
Whistle Blower Policy, POSH,
IMS Awareness, IATF Awareness,
Sustainability Practices.
Safety, Health, Whistle Blower Policy,
POSH & IMS Awareness.
% age of persons
in respective 
category covered
by the awareness
programmes
100%
31
100%
100%
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and 
as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
Non-Monetary
Name of the regulatory/
enforcement agencies
/ judicial institutions
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement
agencies/  judicial institutions
NGRBC Principle
Amount (In INR) Brief of the Case Has an appeal
been preferred?
(Yes/No)
NGRBC Principle
Brief of the Case Has an appeal
been preferred?
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Settlement
Compounding fee
Imprisonment
Punishment
NIL
NIL
9
Business plan, Code of Conduct, Governance
and Regulatory compliance, Risk Management,
Industry Outlook, Conflict of Interest, Long term
strategy etc.  
100%
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
65
Annual Report 2024-25
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NA
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes. The Organisation has anti-Bribery policy, Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management as well as 
Supplier policy.
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NIL
Directors
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
The whistle blower mechanism of the Company provides the Directors, employees, customers and vendors an avenue 
to raise concerns, in line with Company’s commitment to open communication and standards of ethical, moral and legal 
business conduct. During the year, there was no referral made under the whistle blower policy of the Company.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Remarks
Number
Number of complaints received
in relation to issues of Conflict
of Interest of the Directors
Number of complaints received
in relation to issues of Conflict
of Interest of the KMPs
NIL
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts 
of interest.
Not applicable.
NIL
66
Annual Report 2024-25
8. Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
77
75
Number of days of accounts payables
9. Open-ness of business
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with 
loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
6.35%
FY 2023-24
8.02%
Metrics
a. Purchases from trading houses as % of 
total purchases
Parameter
Concentration of
Purchases
32%
91.32%
35%
139 (domestic
& export)
53%
31.06%
5.80% 
NIL
5.71% 
25%
93.75%
33%
b. Number of trading  houses where 
purchases are made from
c. Purchases from top 10 trading 
houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
a. Sales to dealers / distributors as % of 
total sales
b. Number of dealers / distributors to 
whom sales are made
c. Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as 
% of total sales to dealers / distributors
Purchases (Purchases with related 
parties / Total Purchases)
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total 
Sales)
Loans & advances (Loans & advances 
given to related parties / Total loans &
advances)
Investments (Investments in related 
parties / Total Investments made)
Concentration of
Sales
Share of RPTs
230 (domestic
& export)
64%
4.87%
7.21%
NIL
3.90%
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
67
Annual Report 2024-25
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial 
year:
The Company has formulated a supplier code of conduct which is provided to all suppliers along with the general terms 
and conditions emphasising on integrity aspects. Although awareness programmes are being conducted periodically 
for the value chain partners.
% age of value chain partners
covered (by value of business
done with such partners) under
the awareness programmes
Total number of
awareness
programmes held
Topics / principles covered
under the training
Value Chain Partners
2
2
2
4
40
POSH Awareness Training to
Canteen & Service providers
by Ms. Kanakalakshmi
POSH Training to Canteen
& Service providers
by Ms. Kanakalakshmi
Safety Training Kiosk 
Safety Training
Gemba Training on Safety
practices to Contractors -  
Construction, Electrical, 
Welding, gas Safety
100% - 22 Service providers
100% - 53 Service providers
100%
100 % - 20 Subcontractors
189 Contractors
Women Service
Providers - POSH 
Male Service
Providers - POSH 
Safety Training Kiosk - SIS
Security services
Safety Training - 
Sub Contractors 
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, the Board has approved a Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior Management Personnel wherein 
every Director and KMP (acting within the Authority conferred upon them by the Company and under other applicable 
laws) undertakes inter alia to:
- Act fairly and transparently and not participate in any decision-making process on a subject matter in which a conflict 
of interest exists or is likely to exist such that an independent judgment of the Company's best interest cannot be 
exercised.
-
 Avoid having any personal and/or financial interest in any business dealings concerning the Company.
- Not hold any positions or jobs or engage in other businesses or interests that are prejudicial to the interests of the 
Company in compliance with the statutory provisions and the Code of Conduct, requisite disclosure(s) is made by 
the Director's /KMP to the Company.
68
Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 2 : Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Responsible businesses must adopt safe, resource-efficient and low 
carbon technologies to design, manufacture, procure and supply goods
and services to customers.
Sustainable production and consumption are key to enhancing people’s
quality of life and preserving the planet’s natural resources.
WIL’s Material Topics
•
Raw Material Security
•
Innovation &  Technology
•
Waste Management & Circular 
Economy
Stakeholders
•
Customers
•
Government /Regulators
•
Suppliers
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) No.
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
At present, the Company has not captured data of what percentage of inputs are sourced sustainably. The Company 
has a robust system and exercises due diligence in selection of its suppliers and vendors who are aligned to our value 
system. While selecting the suppliers, weightage is given to suppliers who are from the local district and who are 
marginalised to ensure we provide support to them to earn a livelihood. The Company is committed to procuring goods 
and services from these suppliers as part of our commitment to support marginalised communities.
The Company encourages sustainable sourcing by promoting Suppliers and vendors to get certified for ISO 14001, 
IMS, OHSAS. The Company considers ESG compliance as a parameter while rating and evaluating the suppliers.
FY 2024-25
25%
8%
R&D
Capex
FY 2023-24
92%
13%
-
Details of improvements in
environmental and social impacts
3D microscope could reduce the rejection rate of raw 
materials (CVD, Aluminium, Steel, and grits) and the in-
process rejections of wheels.
a) Fire Hydrant system installed.
b) Process Improvement.
c) 
Environmental related equipment.
Particulars
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
69
Annual Report 2024-25
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and safe disposing 
at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Duly recognising that over-consumption results in unsustainable exploitation of the planet's resources, the business 
units in the Company are committed to promoting sustainable consumption, including recycling of resources.
While setting the Environment, Health and safety objectives and targets, considerations are given to reuse, recycle, 
reduction, handling and disposal of Wastes. Measurable performance indicators include waste produced per unit of 
production. The Company has installed high-tech pre-treatment line in the place of conventional treatment to ensure 
clean production and reduction in hazardous waste generation. During the year, the Company has achieved significant 
waste reduction in the Electroplating products. The Company has zero discharge facility for sewage, canteen water, 
electroplating process, paint booth, Demineralised (DM) water effluent and used coolant through Reverse Osmosis 
(RO) Method. This treated water is reused for relevant manufacturing processes. The Company has been achieving 
reduction in waste year on year.
The Company has a secured landfill facility in line with the applicable guidelines for storage of hazardous waste. The 
Company has also created a vermin compost facility to convert all the garden / green waste into manure.
During this year, the Company has carried out recycling of Aluminium scrap into castings. 44.96 tonnes of Aluminium 
ingot has been converted from Aluminium Turnings generating a revenue of Rs. 85.42 Lakhs. Most of our products 
before and after use do not contribute to the generation of e-waste and hazardous waste.
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan 
submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
No, the EPR is not applicable to the Company. Protection of the Environment ranks high among the Company's Goals 
and as a responsible corporate citizen, the Company is committed taking definite steps to protect the Environment. The 
Quality, Environment, Health and Safety policy of the Company covers all its business verticals and it applies to the 
contractors as well, engaged with the Company including by way of incorporating the Safety, Health and Environment 
compliances in the agreement and in certain cases also cover the interest of customers / suppliers / transporters / 
Contractors etc.
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following 
format?
No, while formal Life Cycle Assessment have not been yet undertaken by the Company for its products, the Company 
continuously innovates and strives for optimal usage of resources over the life cycle of the products manufactured. The 
Company uses sustainable processes to reduce, reuse and recycle the products and the waste generated out of it.  The 
Company takes all efforts to ensure that whatever it produces is safe and environment friendly. 
Over the years, the Company has been continuously making improvements in recycling and reusing of waste, 
consumption of water and energy and optimal use of available natural resources. The Company has been certified in 
recognised standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001, TS16949, EN13236 & EN9100 to ensure its products 
have a sustainable use from a social and environmental perspective. 
Super Abrasives (SA): 
The dimensions like Diameter(D), Thickness/Height (T) and Bore(H) of the products are designed with specific criteria 
so that they can resist the expected forces and loads when used as intended and also avoids ejection of Parts. 
Resin, Metal bond and other super abrasive products are designed in such a way that, when used in accordance with 
instruction, there is no hazardous decomposition of products.
Latest versions of Scrubber and exhaust systems have been installed in manufacturing of electroplated products and 
its design for improved air quality.
Leadership Indicators
70
Annual Report 2024-25
All Super Abrasives products are 100% recyclable once the life cycle of product is complete. The Company has 
successfully implemented EN13236 standards to address the safety norms and requirements of overseas customers.
Machine Tools (MTD):
The Company's machines are designed with operator safety system and necessary interlock to ensure safety at 
customer's end during operation.
Machine Tools includes a range of machines such as Rotary surface grinding, Notch milling, TC Ring Grinding, Vertical 
& Horizontal honing, cylindrical grinding and accessories that adhere to the international standards and CE 
Certification fulfilling the international safety norms. 
The business offers IOT (Internet of things) enabled machines helps in reducing energy consumption and also helps in 
optimum usage of resources via constant feedback to the user through the various sensors.  Some of the sustainability 
measures include reuse of wooden packing materials, special application software with operator screens to prevent air 
cutting, optimise panel cooler ratings using software for selection, reduce usage of lubrication by continuous 
monitoring, centrifugal filtration systems to reduce paper based filter consumption, electrostatic precipitators and fume 
extractors.
Precision Components (PC):
Dust collection systems & mist collection system installed in Grinding Machine and Honing Machine enable collection 
of dust and oil mist at the time of grinding operations thus ensuring safe and clean environment.
The Company manufactures products customised for customers based on their recommended design incorporating 
cleanliness and environment friendly standards.
The packing material used for products supplied to its customers can be re-used multiple times and be recycle. 
The Machines used are designed with operator safety system and necessary interlock to ensure safety while usage 
and production.
NA
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life
Cycle Perspective / 
Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated
in public domain
(Yes/No)
If yes, provide
the web-link.
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or 
disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or 
through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / 
Service
Description of the risk /
 concern
Action Taken
Super Abrasives
Machine Tools
Precision Components
Not assessed
NA
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
71
Annual Report 2024-25
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry):
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Indicate Input Material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Aluminium Turnings
Wooden Packing Material
44.96 Tonnes
Corrugated box conversion
savings - 9.21 lakhs
38 Tonnes
Corrugated box conversion
savings - 8.43 lakhs
Used Ply wood
savings - 1.78 lakhs
Used Ply wood
savings - 1.08 lakhs
ETP Water usage
STP Water usage
3058.7 KL
9037.4 KL
2100 KL
9112 KL
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-used
Re-used
Recycled
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Safely Disposed
Plastics (including
packaging)
E-waste
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
2.6 tonnes
3.4 tonnes
0.96 tonnes
1.2 tonnes
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Hazardous waste
NIL
NIL
Safely Disposed in M.tonnes 
1) Plating Metal Sludge - 
0.198Tonnes 
2) Spent solvent - 0.986Tonnes
3) Process waste Residue-
0.711Tonnes
4) Spent carbon or filter medium -
0.313Tonnes
5) Acids & Alkali Residues -
3.001Tonnes 
6) Chemical sludge from waste water 
treatment  - 7.531 Tonnes
7) Used oil or spent oil - 0.00 Tonnes
8) Discarded container  - 0.00 Tonnes                                                 
Safely Disposed in M.tonnes
1) Plating metal sludge - 0.2Tonnes
2) Spent solvent - 0.977Tonnes
3) Process waste Residue-
0.614Tonnes
4) Spent carbon or filter medium - 
0.246Tonnes
5) Acids & Alkali Residues-
1.657Tonnes 
6) Chemical sludge from waste water 
treatment  - 7.856 Tonnes
7) Used oil or spent oil - 2.65 Tonnes
8) Discarded container - 0.284Tonnes
                                              
NIL
NIL
Other waste
NIL
NIL
67.82 tonnes
NIL
NIL
65.48 tonnes
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product 
category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as
% of total products sold in respective category
NIL
72
Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including
those in their value chains
Sustainable businesses must treat employees and workers within their 
organisation and value chains equitably and with dignity and protect their 
health and safety.
Empowering policies, processes and systems spanning the employee life 
cycle ensures equal opportunity, fair working conditions and pay, and career 
development and progression opportunities for overall employee well-being.
WIL’s Material Topics
•
Health-Safety & Employee well being
•
Diversity & Inclusion
•
Innovation & Technology
•
Waste Management & Circular Economy
Stakeholders
•
Employees
•
Service Providers
Essential Indicators
1 a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
Total (A)
% of employees covered by - Management Staff
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number
(B)
Number
(C)
Number
(D)
Number
(E)
Number
(F)
% (B/A)
% (C/A)
% (D/A)
% (E/A)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
187
15
202
Nil
187
15
202
187
15
202
NA
15
15
187
NA
187
187
15
202
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
NA
100%
100%
100%
NA
100%
100%
100%
100%
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
Total (A)
% of workers covered by - NMS, TM, Trainee &CL
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number
(B)
Number
(C)
Number
(D)
Number
(E)
Number
(F)
% (B/A)
% (C/A)
% (D/A)
% (E/A)
% (F/A)
Permanent Workers
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
185
4
189
89
18
107
NA
18
18
89
NA
89
NA
4
4
185
NA
185
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
NA
100%
100%
100%
NA
100%
100%
100%
100%
185
4
189
185
4
189
185
4
189
89
18
107
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
89
18
107
NA
100%
100%
100%
NA
100%
89
18
107
100%
100%
100%
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
73
Annual Report 2024-25
c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format:
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of
total revenue of the Company
1.79%
1.71%
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
2.  Details of retirement benefits, for Current and Previous Financial Year
Benefits
FY 2024- 25
FY 2023-24
No. of
employees
covered as a 
% of total 
employees
No. of
employees
covered as a 
% of total 
employees
No. of 
workers
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
No. of 
workers
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted
and 
deposited with 
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.)
Deducted
and 
deposited with 
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
Gratuity
ESI
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Others -
please specify
NA
3. Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the 
entity in this regard.
The Company establishments are accessible to the differently abled people, and the Company is continuously working 
towards improving infrastructure for eliminating barriers to accessibility.
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
No.
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave:
Gender
Return to work rate
Return to work rate
Permanent employees
Retention rate
Retention rate
Permanent workers
Male
Female
Total
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
There is a Grievance Redressel Mechanism in place. The Company neither supports nor engages in discrimination in hiring, 
remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, national or territorial or social origin 
caste, birth, religion, disability, gender etc., that could give rise to discrimination. The Company does not tolerate any 
behaviour that is threatening, abusive, exploitative, or sexually coercive, including gesture, language and physical contact at 
the work place. The Company is in compliance with the applicable laws, collective bargaining agreements and industry 
standards with respect to employment conditions.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
1) We have Works committee exclusively to discuss about the grievances. This Committee 
meets once in a quarter. (Grievances related to all the employees will be discussed here)
2) Other than this, the Company has Canteen Committee, Health & Safety Committee, 
Events Committee, POSH Committee to discuss about the grievances related to their 
respective areas of work for improvement and redressal.
Other than Permanent
Employees
Particulars
74
Annual Report 2024-25
7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024- 25
FY 2023- 24
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
% (B / A)
% (D / C)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective
category, who are 
part of association(s)
or Union (B)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective
category, who are 
part of association(s)
or Union (D)
Total Permanent
Employees
Total Permanent
Workers
- Male
- Male
- Female
- Female
202
189
187
185
15
4
0
43
0
43
0
0
-
23%
-
23%
-
-
187
191
172
188
15
3
0
43
0
43
0
0
-
23%
-
23%
-
-
8.  Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
Total (A)
Total (D)
On Health and
safety measures
On Health and
safety measures
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. (B)
No. (E)
% (B / A)
% (E / D)
On Skill
upgradation
On Skill
upgradation
% (C / A)
% (F / D)
No. (C)
No. (F)
Employees
Workers
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
187
15
202
185
4
189
172
15
187
92%
100%
93%
100%
100%
100%
122
10
132
120
4
124
65%
67%
65%
65%
100%
66%
172
15
187
188
3
191
172
15
187
188
3
191
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
168
15
183
188
3
191
98%
100%
98%
100%
100%
100%
185
4
189
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
Total (A)
Total (C)
FY 2024-25
No. (B)
No. (D)
% (B / A)
% (D / C)
Employees
Workers
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
187
15
202
185
4
189
188
3
191
172
15
187
100%
100%
100%
79%
100%
79%
73%
100%
74%
146
4
150
138
3
141
FY 2023-24
187
15
202
172
15
187
100%
100%
100%
Note: While performance and career development reviews and discussions are held every year for permanent employees and
permanent workers, the above table depicts the actual number of employees and workers eligible for annual appraisal reviews. 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
75
Annual Report 2024-25
10. Health and safety management system.
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). 
If yes, the coverage of such system?
The Company has been certified for ISO 45001:2018 Standards - Occupational health and safety Management System. The 
Hosur Plant and its operations are being covered under the Scope of ISO 45001:2018 Standards.
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
The Company has conducted Hazard / risk study of all the functions and operations carried out in the Premises. The entire site 
is divided into meaningful areas for analysis of activities and hazards. Core Group members and Head of the Departments 
carry out the analysis in their identified areas.  While carrying out the study, the Company has considered the Manufacturing, 
Design and Development, Product Development, Conversion, Transportation, Handling, Storage, Maintenance, inspection, 
testing, office, housekeeping, purchasing, Subcontractor, Supplier and Waste Management activities.
The Company has a Health and Safety committee and Social Performance Team which carries out internal Audit. Safety 
Committee ensures regular safety patrolling and address the hazards observed during the patrolling processes. The 
Company monitors stringently the unsafe conditions, unsafe acts, near misses and first aid cases. This has helped the 
Organisation to be free of any Incidents / accidents. 
Reported unsafe acts, unsafe conditions, near misses are analysed and corrective actions are taken to minimise probability of 
similar incidents.
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Yes/No)
Employees and Workers are part of Hazard / Risk Analysis study. Workers are empowered to report on the identified work 
related hazards, Unsafe conditions to ensure Work place safety. Employees are encouraged to be part of Health and Safety 
Committee and other Committees of the Company.
d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ 
No)
Yes, the Company provides medical facilities to its employees and they also have access to Occupational Health centre 
which has tie up with a hospital in Hosur.
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees 
Employees 
Employees 
Employees 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
(LTIFR) (per one million-person hours
worked)
Total recordable work-related injuries
No. of fatalities
High consequence work-related injury
or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Nil
Workers
Workers
Workers
Workers
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Nil
76
Annual Report 2024-25
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
The Company believes that its employees are an indispensable asset. To ensure safety and health of its employees, the 
Company provides effective health and safety training, including onsite training and job specific training. These trainings are 
repeated for new/re-assigned personnel to avoid untoward incidents and are also provided training in case of technology 
related changes and/or the introduction of new machinery that might pose risk to health and safety.
Providing and maintaining a safe and hygiene working environment is a continuous process at the Company. Periodic 
awareness sessions, training on usage of protective equipment, identifying and eliminating unsafe conditions are given top 
priority. Work place safety is of prime importance to the Company and there have been sustained efforts over the year in 
training employees to raise awareness of safe work practices. A Stringent Safety Assessment is being practiced.
With a focus on ergonomics, reducing waste and clutter, minimising unnecessary movements and reducing fatigue, this 
initiative aims at creating a truly world-class environment in the Company. 
The Company is an ISO 14001 for Environment Management systems and ISO 45001 Certified for Occupational Health and 
safety Management systems.
A safe work place is ensured with the help of various elements of safety management system which are Operation and 
Maintenance procedure, Work Permit system, personnel safety using PPEs, Trainings, Risk Analysis and Management 
Process Safety information, Management of Change, Safety audit, Employee participation in building Safety culture, Incident 
investigation and Analysis, Emergency preparedness and Response. Contractor and Business Associate Safety and Safety 
in facility Design / Construction to ensure a healthy workplace the following measures are taken: 
- 
At the Planning Stage - Selection of right equipment / technology and processes.
- 
Regular Awareness and Training programme.
- 
Establishing Engineering controls.
- 
Disposal of Hazardous wastes in line with the statutory requirements.
- 
Hazardous waste management as per Pollution control Board Norms.
- 
Use of appropriate, adequate and reliable Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE).
- 
Regular Monitoring and Measurement of Noise, Temperature, Lux Levels, etc., to keep the levels under safe limits. 
Monitoring of Air and water as per PCB Norms.
- 
Display boards with hazard signage in identified areas.
- 
Pre-employment, pre-placement and periodic medical check-ups of all employees to assess the health of workers. These 
check-ups include Biochemistry, ECG, Audiometry, Vision testing, pulmonary function test, Liver function test, Chest      
X-Ray etc.
- 
Organising health campaigns.
The Company has installed safety training kiosk which is a sophisticated touch screen based digital tool with audio visual 
facility that can be used directly without any intervention to get safety awareness by Guests, Visitors, Employees, Drivers and 
New joiners in multiple languages to undergo appropriate safety training.
The Company conducts Annual Health checkup for all the Employees. The outcomes of the medical health camp illustrated 
an overall good health condition of the employees. 
The Company has a fully equipped fitness center and a walking track which can be utilised by the employees before and after 
working hours.
Based on a dedicated assessment of risks and taking into account the results of internal / external monitoring undertaken, the 
Human Resources department in consultation with the Departmental Heads and the social performance team identified the 
trainings to be provided formulating a training plan for its employees.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during
the year
Filed during
the year
Pending resolution
at the end of year
Pending resolution
at the end of year
Remarks
Remarks
Working
Conditions
Health &
Safety
NIL
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
77
Annual Report 2024-25
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Assessment done by third Party.
Working Conditions
Health & Safety
14. Assessments for the year:
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
Not applicable.
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
Employees who are under GPA are covered under 50 times of their Gross as relief benefit to their families.
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
It is an established practice that before processing the contractor's monthly bills, they are required to submit the Wage 
Register copy. Provident Fund (PF) and Employees' State Insurance (ESI) Challans for the concerned month as a proof of 
payment of wages and remittances of the PF / ESI dues for its workforce. After ensuring the same, the Company processes 
and approves the monthly bills of the contractor for payment. This is also audited annually.
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Leadership Indicators
Total no. of affected
employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated and
placed in suitable employment or whose family members
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24
Employees
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
No.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business
done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Working Conditions
Safety Audit for all outsourcing partners during Safety Day
50%
50%
50%
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
Nil.
78
Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 4 : Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its
stakeholders
WIL‘s Material Topics
•
Talent Management
• Labour Management
•
Customer Satisfaction
• Community Development
•
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
• Regulatory issues & compliance
•
Sustainable Supply chain
Stakeholders
•
Customers
•
Government/Regulators
•
Investors
•
Suppliers
•
Employees
•
Local Communities
•
NGOs
Sustainable businesses have an inherent duty to 
protect the interests of their stakeholders, 
including vulnerable and marginalised groups. 
Such organisations must deliver on their 
responsibility to maximise the positive impact
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
The Company places a strong emphasis on stakeholder engagement as delivering its products and services. 
Responsiveness to stakeholder requirements is critical for the success of the Company and creating long term value.  
The stakeholder engagement provides valuable insight to the Company for its strategic planning. Effective stakeholder 
engagement requires regular proper communication, listening and collaboration.
The Company has implemented stakeholder identification process to classify the major stakeholders having an impact 
on the business, as well as the impact the business has on them. These keys stakeholders include shareholders, 
investors, employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, regulators, local communities and government agencies. The 
Company has an established Stakeholders Relationship Committee for leading stakeholder engagement. The 
Company management regularly interacts with key stakeholders and the functional heads are responsible for 
facilitating consultation with the Board on important stakeholder concerns.
While Stakeholder Engagement is a part of ongoing activity, the Company also undertakes formal survey to engage 
with and obtain stakeholder feedback. Over the years, the Company has engaged with the following major stakeholder 
groups that are influenced the Company's activities. Business partners, Contractors, Customers, Investors and 
shareholders, Employees, Non- Governmental Organisations etc. The Company engages with them through multiple 
channels such as formal meetings, Customer helplines, Industry forums, Dealer / Distributors etc.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
79
Annual Report 2024-25
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
    stakeholder group:
Stakeholder
Group
Whether
identified as
Vulnerable &
Marginalised
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of
engagement
(Annually/ Half
yearly/ Quarterly
/ others - please
specify)
Purpose and scope of
engagement including
key topics and concerns
raised during such
engagement
Governments
and Regulatory
Authorities
Industry & Trade
Associations
Suppliers and
vendors,
Outsourcing
partners and
Contractors
Customers
No
No
Yes - MSME
Vendors
No
Inspection, Audits & Compliance
Reports, Public disclosures on
financial and ESG performance,
Meetings, Seminars, media
releases, conferences, membership
with industry bodies etc.
Emails, SMS, Meetings, Website,
Events, Seminar, Conferences
Emails, SMS, Structured Meetings,
Supplier and outsourcing partners
Meets
Emails, Meetings, Website, Events,
Seminar, Conferences, Customer
Relationship Management (CRM)
Portal, exhibitions, complaint
management, customer audits, Key
account Management (KAM),
customer surveys etc
Annual / Half-yearly /
Quarterly / Monthly
As per
the Requirement
As per
the Requirement
As per
the Requirement
•
Establishing proper SOPs.
• Strengthening systems 
through Audits and
Feedback (improving
existing practices).
• Operational / Product 
Safety & Quality.
Statutory Compliances, 
•
to health, Environment, 
Safety etc.
• C o l l a b o r a t i o n  f o r  
commercialisation of 
Technologies / products or 
joint Research, Providing 
product / Technology 
components.
• Complaints and Grievance 
Redressal.
Industry concerns related 
•
Equipment /Services.
• V e n d o r  A w a r e n e s s  
programmes related to 
Quantity and Quality, 
Health, Environment and 
Safety etc.
• M i g r a t i o n  f r o m  
transactional relationship to 
long term partnership.
Procurement of Material / 
•
Service Improvement.
• Marketing Products & 
Services.
• Engagement related to 
Quality, Quantity, Safety 
and Environment.
• Arriving Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) score based 
on survey.
Customer Satisfaction / 
Investors and
Shareholders
No
Annual General Meeting, Email,
Stock exchange intimations,
investors meet, annual reports,
quarterly results, media releases
& Company/SE website etc.
Annual
•
Shareholders aware of 
B u s i n e s s  p l a n s ,  
p e r f o r m a n c e  a n d  
Sustainability.
M a k e  I n v e s t o r  /  
80
Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder
Group
Whether
identified as
Vulnerable &
Marginalised
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of
engagement
(Annually/ Half
yearly/ Quarterly
/ others - please
specify)
Purpose and scope of
engagement including
key topics and concerns
raised during such
engagement
Employees
NGO
Yes - Women
Yes 
Employee Satisfaction Survey,
Grievance Redressal / ESS Portal,
Electronic Communications,
Conclaves, Workshops & Seminars,
Quarterly communication meetings,
performance appraisal meetings,
exit interviews, union meetings,
intranet, email, websites, poster
campaigns etc.
Meetings, Visits 
As per Requirement
As per Requirement
•
Rules / Regulations, 
Benefits, career, personal 
Growth opportunities etc.
• Ensuring a safe, healthy 
and nurturing environment.
• Grievance Redressal.
Employee Awareness on 
•
Responsibility.
C o r p o r a t e  S o c i a l  
Neighbouring
Organisations
Yes
Feedback from Neighbouring
Organisations
Annual
•
Ensuring a safe, healthy 
and nurturing environment.
Taking Feedback and 
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, 
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the 
Board.
Stakeholder consultations are typically undertaken by respective Groups, Functional Heads and relevant Company 
officials. The Feedbacks / identified issues are escalated to the Board-level either through direct channels or through 
various Board committees which oversee aspects like Business Risks, CSR & sustainability, Marketing strategies and 
information technology oversight, Planning & Projects, Dispute settlement etc.
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from 
stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Yes, the Company, recognises the importance of stakeholder consultation in our decision-making process. Through 
these consultations, the Company gains valuable insight into the needs of the local community, especially the 
marginalised and vulnerable groups, which helps to develop the corporate social responsibility programs. Protection of 
Environment ranks high among the Company's goals and as a responsible corporate citizen. The Company is 
committed taking definite steps to protect the environment. The Quality, Environment, Health and safety policy of the 
Company covers all its business verticals and it applies to the contractors as well, engaged with the Company including 
by way of incorporating the Safety, Health and Environment compliances in the contractual agreement.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
81
Annual Report 2024-25
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalised stakeholder groups.
The Company as a first step towards stakeholder engagement, has identified relevant stakeholders both internal and 
external. 
The Company has identified disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders from the local community and 
has also engaged them for their socio-economic development through various CSR and affirmative action 
interventions. The systems and processes are in place to systematically identify stakeholders, understand their 
concerns and for engaging with them is reviewed from time to time. The feedback mechanism available for 
stakeholders to assess the service levels and other complaints follows the spirit laid down therein.
The Company seeks to impact the lives of the disadvantaged by supporting and engaging in activities that aim to 
improve their well-being. The Company is dedicated to the cause of empowering people, educating them and in 
improving their quality of life. While the Company undertakes programmes based on the identified needs of the 
community, education and health care remain top priority. Across the different areas identified by the Company, it 
endeavours to reach the disadvantaged and the marginalised sections of society to make a meaningful impact on their 
lives. The Company also provides access to necessities like health care, drinking water and sanitation and the like to 
the underprivileged located in the neighbourhood.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Businesses must operate in a manner that respects and upholds the inherent rights and entitlement of individuals without 
any discrimination. The core tenets of this principle are based on the Constitution of India and international Human Rights 
standards such as the International Bill of Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
WIL ‘s Material Topics
•
Human Rights
•
Health, Safety & Employee well being
•
Diversity & Inclusion
•
Talent management
•
Labour Management
•
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
•
Code of Conduct
•
Sustainable Supply Chain Management
•
Business, Ethics, Integrity & Transparency
Stakeholders
•
Suppliers
•
Employees
82
Annual Report 2024-25
Essential Indicators
1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
Total (C) 
No. of
employees /
workers
covered (B)
No. of
employees /
workers
covered (D)
% (B / A)
% (D / C)
Employees
Workers
Permanent
Permanent
Other than
Permanent
Other than
Permanent
Total Employees
Total Workers
202
0
202
189
107
296
202
0
202
189
107
296
100%
-
100%
100%
100%
100%
187
0
187
191
139
330
100%
-
100%
100%
100%
100%
187
0
187
191
139
330
Category
Total (A)
Total (D)
Equal to
Minimum Wage
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. (B)
No. (E)
% (B / A)
% (E / D)
More than
Minimum Wage
% (C / A)
% (F / D)
No. (C)
No. (F)
Employees
Other than Permanent
Male
Female
187
15
NA
NA
NA
NA
187
15
172
15
More than
Minimum Wage
Equal to
Minimum Wage
2.  Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Permanent
100%
100%
172
15
100%
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
Workers
Other than Permanent
Male
Female
Permanent
Male
Female
185
4
NA
NA
NA
NA
185
4
188
3
100%
100%
188
3
100%
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
Female
89
18
89
18
120
19
120
19
100%
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
100%
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
83
Annual Report 2024-25
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages
a.  Median remuneration / wages:
Male
Number
Female
Median
remuneration/salary/
wages of respective
category (in Rs.)
Number
Median
remuneration/salary/
wages of respective
category (in Rs.)
186
6,44,459
4
4,36,271
Board of Directors (BoD)
Key Managerial
Personnel
5
2*
183
6,70,000
70,36,307
7,39,760
1
0
15
11,00,000
0
10,04,375
Employees other than
BoD and KMP
Workers
* Company Secretary deputed from CUMI.
b.  Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females
as % of total wages
4.84%
6.05%
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
Yes, Senior Management and various Committees.
The Whistleblower mechanism of the Company provides the Directors, Employees, Customers and Vendors an 
avenue to raise concerns, in line with the Company's commitment to open communication and standards of ethical, 
moral and legal business conduct. 
The Company has adopted the social accountability standard to devise and auditable voluntary mechanism based on 
UN Declaration of human rights, principles of International Labour Organisation, International Human rights, labour 
norms and National Labour laws that is applicable not only to its employees but also to the stakeholders viz., suppliers, 
sub-contractors, sub-suppliers, homeworkers etc.
5. Describe the internal mechanism in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
The Whistleblower mechanism of the Company provides the Directors, employees, Customers and Vendors an 
avenue to raise concerns, in line with the Company's commitment to open communication and standards of ethical, 
moral and legal business conduct. 
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during
the year
Filed during
the year
Pending resolution
at the end of year
Pending resolution
at the end of year
Remarks
Remarks
Sexual
Harassment
Discrimination
at Workplace
Child Labour
Wages
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour
Other Human Rights
related issues.
NIL
84
Annual Report 2024-25
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / 
workers
Complaints on POSH upheld
NIL
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment 
cases.
The Company's Anti-Sexual Harassment policy also provides guidelines and obligations for respectful behaviour at the 
workplace, that is free from discrimination and harassment. The Respectful Workplace principle ensures that people 
are treated with dignity and respect in any Workplace of the Company. Under the Company's POSH policy which aligns 
with the Government of India's Sexual Harassment of Women at Work Place (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, the Company has constituted internal committee to address complaints and concerns around Sexual 
Harassment.
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, no discrimination on basis of gender, caste or creed.
10. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child Labour
Forced/Involuntary Labour
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at Workplace
Wages
Others - please specify
100%
None
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
Not applicable.
1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints.
The Grievance Redressal Committee and guidelines are updated from time to time to address any uncovered aspect 
arising out of human rights grievances. No such changes were made during the financial year 2024-25.
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
None.
Leadership Indicators
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
85
Annual Report 2024-25
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Yes.
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at Workplace
Child Labour
Forced/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others - please specify -5S, Safety
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above.
Not applicable.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Environmental stability is a precondition to achieving economic growth & societal prosperity. This principle puts 
emphasis on businesses to adopt sustainable practices in their own operations as well as in the value chain to 
minimise the adverse impact of business activities. They are also expected to address environmental issues like 
climate change, emissions, biodiversity loss, water conservation and waste management in a just & systematic 
manner.
WIL ‘s Material Topics
•
Climate Change
• Managing Environmental Impact
•
Energy Efficiency of Operation
• Water & Effluent Management
•
Innovation & Technology
• Waste Management & Circular Economy
•
Sustainable Supply chain Management
• Security & Asset Management
•
Disaster Preparedness & Management
Stakeholders
• Suppliers
• Local Community
• Employees
86
Annual Report 2024-25
From renewable sources
Essential Indicators
1.  Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total fuel consumption (B) (TJ)
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
Total energy consumed from renewable sources
(A+B+C) (TJ)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) (TJ)
Total fuel consumption (E) (TJ)
Total energy consumed from non-renewable
sources (D+E+F) (TJ)
14192193.6
100512
14292705.60
14774832
445147.2
15219979.2
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) (TJ)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations)
(TJ/ Rupees in million)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations
adjusted for PPP) (TJ/ Rupees in million)
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
14292705.60
0.0067 Mega Joule/Rupee
15219979.2
0.0074 Mega Joule/Rupee
Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may
be selected by the entity
Note:
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No)
If yes, name of the external agency - No.
* The previous financial year figures are re-calibrated wherever necessary in this principle.
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Yes/No) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any.
Not applicable.
0.1593
0.1744
NA
NA
NA
NA
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
87
Annual Report 2024-25
3.  Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water intensity in terms of physical output
Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric
may be selected by the entity
(i) Surface water
(ii) Groundwater
(iii) Third-party water
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
(v) Others
NA
NA
16105.39
NA
9587
NA
NA
13944
NA
8153
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
25692.39
25692.39
22097
22097
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations)
(Kilolitres/ Rupees in million)
Water intensity per Rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total water
consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted
for PPP) (Kilolitres/ Rupees in million)
0.0000121 KL/Rupee
0.0000107 KL/Rupee
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No)
If yes, name of the external agency - No.
4.  Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(i) To Surface water
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(ii) To Groundwater
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(iii) To Seawater
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third-parties
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(v) Others
- No treatment
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No)
If yes, name of the external agency - NA.
Not applicable
0.0002504  
0.0002400
NA
NA
NA
NA
88
Annual Report 2024-25
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation. 
Yes, as a responsible organisation the Company gives importance to reduce, reuse and recycle water. This is achieved 
through installation of Effluent Treatment plant (ETPs) and Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) in line with the 
compliance norms in force. These systems enable the Company to reuse and recycle water and utilise it again within 
the plant premises for process reuse, gardening and toilet flushing etc.
Water Recycling and Reuse: The Company treats its process effluents and reuses in its process. This facility has also 
been installed in the Company's manufacturing facility for electroplated products.
The Company's Green belt within its facility is fully maintained using Sewage recycled water. 
Water recharge: Water collected out of rain is harvested through a percolation pond carrying a storage capacity of 1.2 
Million litres.
The Company has installed rain water harvesting in the CCSD Building with an Underground storage capacity of 0.6 
million litres and being directly used for toilets and handwash purposes of CCSD and FG Stores since April 2020.
Scrubbers have been built in the plating process for reducing the Odour and discharge of particulate matter.
We are a zero-discharge Company.
6. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Nox
Sox
Particulate Matter (PM)
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
Others - please specify
microgram / m3
microgram / m3
microgram / m3
-
max 33 & min 18
max 18 & min 7
max 86 & min 52
max 34 & min15
max 23 & min 12
max 66 & min 41
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
89
Annual Report 2024-25
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up
of the GHG into Co2, CH4, N2O,
HFCs, PFCs, SF6,NF3, if available)
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up
of the GHG into Co2, CH4, N2O,
HFCs, PFCs, SF6,NF3, if available)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emission intensity per rupee of
turnover (Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue
from operations)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emission Intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing
Power Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1
and Scope 2 GHG emissions /
Revenue from operations adjusted
for PPP)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emission intensity in terms
of physical output
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emission intensity (optional) -
the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
FY 2024-25
220.14
2933.58
0.00000149
FY 2023-24
325.25
2947.14
0.00000159
Unit
Metric tonnes of 
CO  equivalent
2
Metric tonnes of 
CO  equivalent
2
Metric tonnes of 
CO  equivalent
2
/ Rupee
NA
NA
0.0000307
NA
NA
0.0000355
NA
NA
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No)
If yes, name of the external agency - No.
Metric tonnes of 
CO  equivalent
2
/ Rupee
90
Annual Report 2024-25
8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.  
No.
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
E-waste (B)
Bio-medical waste (C)
Construction and demolition waste (D)
Battery waste (E)
Radioactive waste (F)
2.62
1.31
0.02
NA
7.91
NA
9.58
3.46
-
0.09
NA
-
NA
13.13
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (G)
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)
Please specify, if any (Break-up by composition 
i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
184.16
167.12
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(i) Incineration
(ii) Landfilling
(iii) Other disposal operations
2.21
10.53
28.79
Total
41.53
45.68
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No)
If yes, name of the external agency. Ramky - Chennai & Green Gene-Enviro - Ranipet (Tamil Nadu)
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste
Generated / Revenue from operations) (MT/ Rupees in Million)
Waste intensity per rupee of Turnover adjusted for
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)(MT/Rupees in Million)
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
Waste intensity (optional) - The relevant metric
may be selected by the entity
205.59
0.000000097 MT/Rupee
183.80
0.000000089 MT/Rupee
Category of waste
0.000002004
NA
NA
0.0000020
NA
NA
(i) Recycled
(ii) Re-used
(iii) Other recovery operations
120.60
0
34.75
155.35
100.27
0
29.8
130.07
Total
2.04
9.51
34.13
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
91
Annual Report 2024-25
10. a) Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments.
The Company follows the principle of "Reduce, Recycle and Reuse" to effectively manage waste. We use various 
initiatives to reduce, recycle and reuse the waste. Some of the initiatives outlined below: 
Energy:
The Company's Manufacturing processes are not power-intensive. However, the Company takes continuous efforts to 
reduce energy consumption. The Integrated Management system policy of the Company focuses on Processes, 
Conservation of Natural resources, Protection of Environment, Prevention of Pollution towards Environment.
The Energy conservation measures include reforms such as installation of Energy savers in the lighting circuit to 
conserve energy through the replacement of high voltage consumption lamps with LED lights, the introduction of LDR-
Light dependent resistance sensors that harnesses natural daylight for all outdoor lighting with automatic controls.
The Company has installed Solar power plant in its facilities.
Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved over the previous year:
Innovation and listening to the voices of customers has always been the Company's priority. Constantly adjusting our 
processes, methods and systems across the value chain in shortest possible time and designing our responses in 
terms of products, services and behaviour ensures manufacturing excellence.
•
workpiece. The reduced risk of thermal damage in CBN Grinding is at times attributed to the lower grinding specific 
Energies. This advantage can allow a marked increase in removal rate whilst maintaining surface quality of the 
component compared to grinding with conventional abrasives such as aluminium oxide.
• 
Super Abrasive wheels extend bearing, spindle and overall machine life, thereby reducing the power usage and 
energy consumption for acceleration and deceleration in linear and rotary movement.
• The Company offers an eco-friendly high-performance coolant along with its super abrasive wheels and machines 
to ensure there is optimum usage of Super Abrasive wheels and reduction in waste generated during grinding 
process.
b) Describe the strategy adopted by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your 
products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
While setting the Environment, Health, Safety objectives and targets, considerations are given to reuse, recycle, 
reduction, handling and disposal of wastes. Measurable performance indicators include waste produced per unit of 
production. The Company has installed high-tech pretreatment line in the place of conventional treatment to ensure 
clean production and a reduction in hazardous waste generation. During the year, the Company has achieved a 
significant waste reduction in the case of electroplating products. The Company has zero discharge facility for sewage, 
canteen, electroplating process, paint booth, DM Water effluent and used coolant through RO Method. This treated 
water is reused for relevant manufacturing processes. The Company has been achieving a reduction in waste 
generation year on year.
The Company has a secured landfill in line with the applicable guidelines for storage of hazardous waste. The Company 
has also created a vermicompost facility to convert all the garden/ green waste to manure.
 
The Super Abrasive wheel (CBN / Diamond) provides an advantage of reduced risk of thermal damage to the 
92
Annual Report 2024-25
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: 
Sl.
No.
Location of operations
/offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance are 
being complied with? (Yes/No) If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
NA
12.Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
Name and 
brief details
of project
EIA
Notification
No.
Date
Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes / No)
Results
communicated
in public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant
Web link
NA
13 a) Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Yes/No). b) If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the 
following format:
Yes, the Company is compliant with all the environmental requirements and has a valid consent to operate certificate from the 
Pollution Control Board.
NA
Sl.
No.
Specify the law / regulation
/ guidelines which was not
complied with
Provide details of
the non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action
taken by regulatory agencies
such as pollution control
boards or by courts
Corrective action taken,
if any
Leadership Indicators
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(I) Name of the area
(ii) Nature of operations                 
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in
      the following format:
Not applicable
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
93
Annual Report 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)  Surface water
(ii)  Groundwater
(iii) Third party water
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
(v)  Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Water consumed / Turnover)
Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric
may be selected by the entity
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) Into Surface water
    a. No treatment
    b. With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(ii) Into Groundwater
    a. No treatment
    b. With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(iii) Into Seawater
    a. No treatment
    b. With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third-parties
    a. No treatment
    b. With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(v) Others
    a. No treatment
    b. With treatment - please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
          (Yes/No) If yes, name of the external agency - NA.
94
Annual Report 2024-25
2.  Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs,
Sf6, NF3, if available)
Total Scope 3 emissions
per rupee of turnover
Total Scope 3 emission
intensity (optional) - the relevant
metric may be selected by
the entity Adjusted for PPP
Metric tonnes
of Co2 equivalent
Metric tonnes
of Co2 equivalent
Metric tonnes of Co2
equivalent/Rupee
3116.27
0.00000147
-
5868.73
0.00000285
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
          (Yes/No) If yes, name of the external agency - No.
3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities.  
Not applicable.
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be
provided along-with summary)
Outcome
of the initiative
NA
5. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
The Company has put in place a disaster management and business continuity plan. The need for the same arose during 
COVID 19 lockdown during which the Company had set up a Disaster management and Business continuity plan for 
restarting its operations with governmental approvals and following all guidelines. The Company conducts regular mock 
drills, fire safety training sessions for all its employees. The Company has setup SOPs and guidelines for overcoming natural 
disasters, fires and other emergencies. These procedures are constantly reviewed and updated to reflect any changes in our 
operations or external factors.  The Company has identified and established critical business functions and backup support 
plans to minimise downtime in case of any failure and ensure continuity of operations in case of any unforeseen disruptions. 
The Company has established partnerships with on call local emergency response from fire brigade, hospital and medical 
services to ensure timely and effective response in case of emergencies.  
6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
Not applicable.
The Company is planning to establish sustainable supply chain practices by working with suppliers who prioritise 
environmentally friendly practices. The Company also has a robust waste management system that focuses on reducing 
waste, reusing materials, and recycling wherever possible.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
95
Annual Report 2024-25
7. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
At present, the Company has not assessed its value chain partners for environmental impacts. However, the Company 
acknowledge and committed to conduct the same in future. 
8. How many Green Credits have been generated or procured: 
a. By the listed entity - NIL
b. By   the   top   ten   (in   terms   of   value   of   purchases   and   sales, respectively) value chain partners - NIL
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do
so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
WIL ‘s Material Topics
•
Business Ethics & Transparency
•
Code of Conduct
Stakeholders
•
Government/Regulators
Businesses are expected to engage with 
governments in an ethical and transparent 
manner to redress their grievances and 
advocate policies that ultimately expand the 
public good.
Essential Indicators
1. (a) Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
Wendt (India) Limited is an active member of several national and international trade and industry chambers and 
associations.
(b) List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S.No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Confederation of Indian Industry
Hosur Industries Association
Quality Circle Forum of India
National HRD Network, Hosur Chapter
IMTMA-Indian Machine Tool Manufacturer's Association
Indo-German Chamber of Commerce
Bangalore Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Engineering Export Promotion Council
Indian Cutting Tool Manufacturer
South India Chamber of Commerce
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
State & National
State  
State & National
State  
National
National
National
National
National
National
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
96
Annual Report 2024-25
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Public policy 
advocated
S.No.
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information
available in 
public domain?
(Yes/No)
Frequency of
Review by Board
(Annually/ Half yearly/
Quarterly / Others
- please specify)
Web Link, 
if available
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and
brief details
of project
SIA
Notification
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes / No)
Results
communicated
in public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant
Web link
NA
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:
S.No.
Name of Project
for which R&R
is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project
Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs
covered by
R&R
Amounts paid
to PAFs in
the FY (In INR)
NA
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
Directly from within India
15%
64%
32%
42%
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
All grievances could be submitted to 
 The grievances of the community can be sent to the plant HR 
/Admin teams who will handle the same
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
wil@wendtindia.com.
No adverse orders received and hence, no corrective action was necessitated.
The Company is not actively involved in lobbying. However, as a responsible corporate citizen, the Company is an active 
member of several national and international trade and industry chambers and associations. As part of these groups, the 
Company makes recommendations/ representations before regulators /associations for advancement and improvement of 
industrial climate in India. Additionally, the Company regularly participates in forums and discussions related to energy 
security and management, water and food security, and sustainable business practices to share its opinions. 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
97
Annual Report 2024-25
5. Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage 
cost.
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
Semi-urban
Urban
Metropolitan
-
-
8%
92%
-
-
8%
92%
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
NIL
No SIA was done in the current financial year.
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
State
S.No.
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (in INR)
NIL
3. (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalised /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) (b) From which marginalised /vulnerable groups do you 
procure? (c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
a) Yes, Preference is given to local suppliers, Micro and small scale Enterprises (MSMEs), Start-ups in accordance with the 
extent Government and Company Policies. Purchase preference is given to MSMEs and Local Suppliers as per Public 
Procurement Policy 2012.
b) MSMEs in and around Hosur.
c)  Please refer answer to question no.4 of essential indicators.
4.  Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in 
the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S.No. Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating
benefit share
NIL
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property-related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
(Place to be categorised as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan) 
98
Annual Report 2024-25
6.  Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
CSR Project
No. of Persons 
benefitted from
CSR Projects
% of Beneficiaries from
Vulnerable and 
marginalised groups
Sl.
No.
Classroom for Government School, Peddaelasagiri & Begepalli
Government Hospital
Bedarapalli School
Bharathi Nagar Middle School
Urdu Hr. Sec. School
PUP School, Chinnaeleasagiri
PUP School, Arasanatti
PUP School, Matham Agraharam
Sri Sathya Sai Bala Gurukulam Mat. School
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
300 Students -
Begepalli & 
70 Students - 
Peddaelasagiri 
2500 People 
950 Students
400 Students
450 Students
270 students
400 Students
259 Students
124 Students 
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
The Company's objectives is to pro-actively support meaningful socio-economic development in India and enable a large 
number of people to participate in and benefit from India's economic progress.
This is based on the belief that growth and development are effective only when they result in wider access to opportunities 
and benefit a broader section of the society. All CSR initiatives are for the support of the underprivileged / those who belong 
to the vulnerable /marginalised sections of the society in the community where it is located.
PRINCIPLE : 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
The Company is a customer centric organisation and attaches considerable value to the Trust, Satisfaction and loyalty of its 
customers across the world. The Company strives to ensure that Customer needs are satisfied and the products and 
services offer value to the customers. Hence, the Company believe that commitment to transparency is vital to build trust 
and credibility with the customers by demonstrating honesty and openness in handling complaints.
Customers can communicate their complaints via email or phone calls to the Customer support team who will register the 
complaint with the First Investigation Report (FIR). After receipt of the complaint, acknowledgment is given within 24 hours. 
Technical complaints are handled by the Quality Control team and commercial complaints are handled by the Marketing 
team. The Company has set a target of customer complaint resolution within 15 days of registration. Process owners and 
Product Managers are responsible for identifying the root cause and implementing Corrective and Preventive action(CAPA) 
within the stipulated time frame. Marketing Head shall decide on product recall in consultation with the Management.
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry 
information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
100%
100%
100%
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
99
Annual Report 2024-25
3.  Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Data privacy
Advertising
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
Other
FY 2024-25
Remarks
Remarks
Received
during 
the year
Received
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
FY 2023-24
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Forced recalls
NIL
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, we have a cyber security policy. The Company also has a Board Level Committee on 'Risk Management' which 
includes the review of cyber risk.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
Not applicable.
7. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a. Number of instances of data breaches - Nil
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers - Nil
c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches  - Nil
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
All information regarding the Company's products and services can be accessed through the Company's website: 
 and its periodic disclosures like Annual report. The Company has uploaded its new products and 
successful applications on its social media pages like LinkedIn and YouTube.
Product related information can be accessed through website 
Leadership Indicators
www.wendtindia.com
www.wendtindia.com
NIL
Particulars
Particulars
100
Annual Report 2024-25
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. 
•
Organising workshops, Technical Seminars, Technology day at customer premises.
•
Distribution of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) of the Products.
•
Handing over of Machine Manual while supplying Machine Tools.
The Company prioritises customer safety and responsible usage of its products by ensuring that it provides clear 
instructions on the handling, storage, use and disposal of products as per local laws. The Company provides MSDS that 
contain detailed information about the potential hazards associated with the products and guides on how to handle, store 
and safely dispose the product after usage.
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
•
Emails to customers.
•
Telephonic communication.
The Company through emails and through its channel partners informs consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation 
of essential services. During the year, no such situation arose.
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to 
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation 
of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Yes, the Company displays product information over and above the mandatory statutory requirement as per the local law. 
The Company provides MSDS that contain detailed information about the potential hazards associated with the products 
and guides on how to handle, store and safely dispose the product after usage. The Company has implemented SAP as its 
operating software. All the products are identified with Unique Serial Numbers that has appropriate Tracking and traceability 
on the Materials supplier to the Customers along with the Product Description.
Yes, the Company conducts annual Customer Satisfaction surveys and Net Promoter Score (NPS) and monitors customer 
satisfaction trends periodically relating to its products.
On behalf of the Board
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York 
April 23, 2025
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
101
Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE F
SECRETARIAL  AUDIT REPORT
ST
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31  MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended]
The Members
regulations made there under. However there were 
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED
no Foreign Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings during the year under 
CIN: L85110KA1980PLC003913
review;
Flat No 105, Cauvery Block
National Games Housing Complex, 
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines 
Koramangala, Bangalore - 560047 
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) are applicable;
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
adherence to good corporate practices by WENDT 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
(INDIA) LIMITED [Corporate Identification Number: 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
L85110KA1980PLC003913] (hereinafter called “the 
b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
st
Company”) for the financial year ended 31  March, 2025. 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
expressing our opinion thereon.
2015;
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
records maintained and also the information provided by 
Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable during the 
the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
year under review);
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, 
we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, 
e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
during the audit period covering the financial year ended 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
st
31  March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions 
Equity) Regulations, 2021(Not applicable 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
during the year under review);
Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place to 
f)
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
made hereinafter:
Securities) Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable 
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
during the year under review);
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
st
the Company for the financial year ended 31  March, 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
2025 and on the basis of our review, we hereby report 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
that during the year under review, the Company has 
Companies Act and dealing with client (Not 
complied with the applicable provisions of:
applicable as the company is not registered as 
(i)
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
Registrar to an issue and share transfer Agent 
made there under;
during the year under review);
(ii)
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 
(Not applicable during the year under review); 
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
and
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
i)
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(iv) The Company has complied with the applicable 
(Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not 
provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act,   
applicable during the year under review);
1999, Overseas Direct Investment and the rules and 
102
Annual Report 2024-25
(vi) The Management has identified and confirmed the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place 
following Laws as being specifically applicable to the 
during the period under review were carried out in 
Company:
compliance with the provisions of the Act and Listing 
Regulations.
1. Factories Act, 1948;
Adequate notice is given to all the directors/ members 
2. Labour laws and other incidental laws related to 
before schedule of the Board/ Committee Meetings, 
labour and employees appointed by the 
agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
Company including those on contractual basis as 
seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking 
relating to wages, gratuity, prevention of sexual 
and obtaining further information and clarifications on 
harassment, dispute resolution, welfare, 
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
provident fund, insurance, compensation etc.;
participation at the meeting. The Board/ Committee 
3. Industries (Development & Regulation)Act, 
Meetings convened at shorter notice/agenda and notes 
1991;
on agenda which are circulated less than the specified 
period, the necessary compliances under the 
4. Acts and Rules prescribed under prevention and 
Companies Act, 2013 and Secretarial Standards on 
control of pollution;
Meetings of the Board of Directors and Listing 
5. Acts relating to protection of IPR;
Regulations are complied with.
We believe that the audit evidence which we have 
During the year under review, the Board/ Committee 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
Meetings convened through Video Conferencing were 
for our audit opinion. In our opinion and to the best of our 
in compliance with the provisions of Section 173 (2) of 
information and according to explanations given to us, 
the Act read with Rule 3 of Companies (Meetings of 
we believe that the systems and mechanisms 
Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014. Further, the 
established by the Company are adequate to ensure 
Circulars, Regulations and Guidelines issued by the 
compliance of laws as mentioned above. 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India and other relevant regulatory authorities 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
pertaining to Board/ Committee meetings, General 
clauses / regulations of the following:
Meetings and other provisions of the Act, Rules and 
(i) Secretarial Standards with respect to Meetings 
Regulations have been complied with by the Company.
of Board of Directors (SS-1) and General 
Based on the verification of the records and minutes, the 
Meetings (SS-2) (as amended) and Guidance 
decisions at the Board/ Committee Meetings were taken 
Note on Meetings of the Board of Directors and 
with the consent of the Board of Directors/ Committee 
General Meetings (revised) issued by The 
Members and no Director/ Member had dissented on 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
any of the decisions taken at such Board/ Committee 
(ii) The Uniform Listing Agreement entered with 
Meetings. Further, in the minutes of the General 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
Meeting, the Members who voted against the 
India Limited pursuant to the provisions of the 
resolution(s) have been duly recorded.
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
We further report that based on review of compliance 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
mechanism established by the Company and to the best 
referred to as “Listing Regulations”)
of our information and according to explanations given 
During the period under review, the Company has 
to us by the Management and also on the basis of the 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Compliance certificates issued by the Chief Financial 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. issued by the 
Officer and Company Secretary under various statutes 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange 
as mentioned above in clause (vi) and taken on record 
Board of India and such other regulatory authorities for 
by the Board of Directors at their meeting(s), we are of 
such acts, rules, regulations, standards etc. as 
the opinion that the management has adequate 
mentioned above.
systems and processes commensurate with its size and 
We further report that
operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with all 
applicable laws.
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted with proper balance of Non-Executive 
We further report that the above mentioned Company 
Directors, Executive Director, Woman Independent 
being a Listed entity this report is also issued pursuant to 
Director and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
103
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations as amended 
2.
Entered into a Trademark Assignment Agreement 
th
with Wendt GmbH, for acquiring the absolute 
and circular No.CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 dated 8  
ownership of the “Wendt” brand and trademarks 
February, 2019 issued by the Securities and Exchange 
with over 60 registrations in 40 countries, owned by 
Board of India.
Wendt GmbH and/or its affiliates worldwide in 
We further report that as per the information and 
accordance with the Agreement, for an amount not 
explanations provided by the Management, the 
exceeding 3.8 million Euros and remitted the 
Company does not have any Material Unlisted 
purchase consideration  to the seller’s account as 
Subsidiary(ies) Incorporated in India as defined under 
per the terms of the agreement;
Regulation 16(1)(c) and Regulation 24A of the Listing 
3.
Obtained approval from the members vide postal 
Regulations as amended during the period under review.
th
ballot dated 26  February, 2025 for approval of 
We further report that during the audit period, the 
material related party transactions with Wendt 
Company had
Gmbh.
1.
Received an intimation  from the Promoters i.e., 
4.
Obtained approval from the Board of Directors at 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI) and Wendt 
rd
their meeting held on 3  March, 2025 for 
GmbH, regarding potential divestiture by Wendt 
incorporating a wholly owned subsidiary in 
GmbH of up to its entire ownership interest in the 
Germany.
Company through one or more transactions in the 
secondary market and consequent to this, there is 
an amendment in the terms of the Shareholders 
agreement between them;
For SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN & ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
CS SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN
FCS No. 12510
CP No. 17990
PR No. 6279/2024
                                   UIN: S2017TN472300
     UDIN: F012510G000181481
Place: Chennai
rd
Date  : 23  April, 2025
Note: This Report is to be read with letter of even date, which is annexed as “Annexure A“ and Forms an
integral part of this report.
104
Annual Report 2024-25
‘Annexure A to MR-3’
The Members
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED
CIN: L85110KA1980PLC003913
Flat No 105, Cauvery Block
National Games Housing Complex, 
Koramangala, Bangalore - 560047 
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records as per the Auditing Standards (CSAS-1 to CSAS-4) and 
Guidance Notes on ICSI Auditing Standards and Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India. The verification was done to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the 
company as well as correctness of the values and figures reported in various disclosures and returns as required to 
be filed by the company under the specified laws.
4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5. It is the responsibility of the management of the company to devise proper systems to ensure compliance with the 
provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards and to ensure that the systems are 
adequate and operate effectively. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company.
For SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN & ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
CS SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN
FCS No. 12510
CP No. 17990
PR No. 6279/2024
                                   UIN: S2017TN472300
     UDIN: F012510G000181481
Place: Chennai
rd
Date  : 23  April, 2025
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
105
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
A.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Company's Philosophy on Corporate 
Governance 
(i)  Size and Composition of the Board 
acting always with the Company's legitimate interest in 
mind and being aware of the Company's responsibility 
[
towards its stakeholders is an essential element of the 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Company's long-term excellence.
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
Corporate Governance is a process that aims to allocate 
corporate resources in a manner that maximises value 
The Company's Board of Directors recognise its 
for all stakeholders - shareholders, employees, 
responsibilities towards all stakeholders and play a key 
customers, suppliers, environment and the community 
role in not only providing directions in terms of strategy 
at large. Good Corporate Governance is characterised 
but also in upholding the highest standards of 
by an unwavering commitment to ethical conduct, 
Governance. Wendt firmly believes that Board 
transparency, and responsible decision-making in all 
independence is essential to bring objectivity and 
business interactions.
transparency in the management of the Company. The 
Board of Directors provides leadership and strategic 
guidance to the Company's management, monitor the 
implementation of the plans and review the performance 
of the Company. The Independent Directors provide an 
Wendt (India) Limited (’the Company or Wendt’) is 
objective judgement on matters placed before them. 
committed to high standards of governance, developing 
robust policies and aligning the interest of all 
The Company's day to day affairs are managed by the 
stakeholders at large to foster a culture of responsibility 
Executive Director also designated as Chief Executive 
and compliance. The driving forces of Corporate 
Officer, assisted by a competent Management team 
Governance at Wendt are its core values, belief in 
under the overall supervision of the Board. The 
people, entrepreneurship, customer orientation and 
Company's commitment to ethical and lawful business 
pursuit for excellence. The Company believes that 
conduct is a fundamental shared value of the Board, 
Corporate Governance is not an end to itself but a 
Senior Management and all its employees.
catalyst in the process towards maximisation of 
stakeholders’ value. Established Board processes, well-
structured internal control systems, unrelenting trust of 
The key to sound Corporate Governance for a Company 
its people, customer centric approach and untiring 
is a diverse board along with appropriate balance of 
efforts towards sustainable development and social 
professionalism, knowledge and experience, ensuring 
responsibility are core to the Company's Corporate 
objective decision-making and sound governance.
Governance practices. The Company continuously 
upgrades its Governance practices, fostering a culture of 
The Board of Directors of the Company comprises of 
integrity and ethical conduct that underpins pursuit of 
eminent persons having collective experience in diverse 
excellence and sustainable growth. 
fields of technology, engineering, finance, management 
st
and compliance. As of 31  March 2025, the Board at 
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for the 
Wendt (India) Limited comprises of six (6) Directors out 
Board and its employees which contains the 
of which three (3) are Independent Directors including a 
fundamental principles and rules concerning ethical 
Woman Director.
business conduct. This Code embodies the belief that 
Pursuant to Schedule V of the Securities and 
106
Annual Report 2024-25
Mr. Bhagya
Chandra Rao
DIN - 00211127
Ms. Hima Srinivas
DIN - 07556717
Mr. L Ramkumar
DIN - 00090089
Mr. Sridharan
Rangarajan
DIN - 01814413
Mr. Muthiah
Venkatachalam
DIN - 07045802
Mr. Ninad Mukund 
Gadgil
DIN - 08707884
Chairman,
Non-Executive
& Independent
Director (ID)
Non-Executive
& Independent
Director (ID)
Non-Executive
& Independent
Director (ID)
Non-Executive &
Non-Independent
Director (NED)
Non-Executive &
Non-Independent
Director (NED)
Executive Director
& Chief Executive
Officer (ED)
4(1)
1
4
10 (1)
1
1
Name of the Director
Attendance
at last AGM
Shares
held in
Wendt
Category
No. of
Directorships/ 
(Chairman
ships) in
(a)
companies
No. of 
other
Director-
ships
No. of Committee
memberships / 
(Chairmanships)
in companies
including 
(b)
Wendt 
No. of
Board
meetings
attended
(Total
meetings
held)
2
1
-
4
4
2
5(3)
1
5(3)
6(1)
1
-
9(9)
9(9)
5(5)*
9(9)
8(9)
7(7)*
Yes
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
Yes
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
(a)
Excluding Alternate Directorships and Directorships in Foreign companies, Private companies (which are not 
subsidiary or holding company of a Public company) and Section 8 companies;
(b)
Only Audit & Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Public companies; 
(c)
Inter-se relationship between Directors - Nil.
* 
th
Mr. Ninad Gadgil was appointed w.e.f. 6  May 2024.
The names of listed entities where the Directors hold directorship (excluding the Company) is given below:
th
Mr. L Ramkumar was appointed  w.e.f. 24  July 2024.
Name of the Director
Company Name
Category
Disa India Limited
Shetron Limited
Suprajit Engineering Limited
-
Shanti Gears Limited
Igarashi Motors India Limited
Carborundum Universal Limited
Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Limited
E.I.D Parry (India) Limited
-
-
Bhagya Chandra Rao (BCR)
Non-Executive Independent Director
Non-Executive Independent Director
Non-Executive Independent Director
-
Non-Executive Independent Director
Non-Executive Independent Director
Managing Director
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director
-
-
Hima Srinivas (HS)
L Ramkumar (RL)
Sridharan Rangarajan (SR)
MuthiahVenkatachalam (MV)
Ninad Gadgil (NMG)
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
107
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
The Company has received the requisite declarations 
The Company operates in the field of Engineering and 
from its Independent Directors confirming that they meet 
presence of engineers and technologists in the Board 
the criteria of independence prescribed both under the 
guiding the Company in its projects and strategy 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. The 
assumes significance. Considering the nature of the 
rd
business the Company operates in, the Board members’ 
Board at its meeting held on 23 April 2025 has taken on 
skills/expertise would be in the field of engineering, 
record the declarations received from the Independent 
finance, and management. The Directors are nominated 
Directors. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent 
to the Board based on their qualification and experience 
Directors of the Company fulfil the conditions specified in 
in order to maintain a healthy balance of diversified 
the Listing Regulations and are independent of the 
experts on the Board. 
Management. 
Changes in Board composition during the financial year 2024-25
st
During the year ended 31  March 2025, there were no changes in the Board composition other than as detailed
below:
Name of the Director
Remarks
Category
Mr. C Srikanth
Nature of Change
Executive Director &
Chief Executive Officer
Resignation
Stepped down as an Executive Director 
and CEO w.e.f. close of business hours
th
on 5  May 2024.
Mr. Shrinivas Govindrao
Shirgurkar
Mr. Bhagya Chandra
Rao
Chairman,
Non-Executive & 
Independent Director
Chairman,
Non-Executive &
Independent Director
Retirement
Appointment
Mr. Ninad Mukund 
Gadgil
Executive Director &
Chief Executive Officer
Appointment
Appointed as an Executive Director &
Chief Executive Officer with effect from
th
6  May 2024 at the Board meeting held
rd
on 3  May 2024. The appointment was
approved by the Shareholders at the
nd 
42
Annual General Meeting held on
nd
22  July 2024.
Mr. Lakshminarayanan
Ramkumar
Non-Executive
Independent Director
Appointment
nd
The shareholders at the 42  Annual 
General Meeting appointed Mr. Lakshmi
narayanan Ramkumar as an Independent
th
Director with effect from 24  July 2024 for
a term of three (3) consecutive years.
Retired as a Chairman, Non-Executive
Independent Director from the close of
rd
business hours of 23  July 2024 on
completion of his second term as
an Independent Director. 
Elected as the Chairperson of the Board
th
with effect from 24  July 2024 at Board
nd
meeting held on 22  July 2024.
108
Annual Report 2024-25
The matrix setting out the skills / expertise / competence of the Board of Directors identified by the Board as required in 
the context of its business(es) and sector(s) for it to function effectively and those available with the Board is given 
below:
Key Skills & 
competencies
Description
BCR
HS
RL
SR
MV
NMG
Technical
Financial
Board
Positions /
Governance
Management
Strategic
advisory
By qualification or by experience, having an
understanding of the prevalent technology, future
trends and its impact on the Company's manufacturing
processes and products and further guide the Company
in its innovation model.
Understanding financial reporting process, capital
allocation, audit processes, internal controls,
understanding of treasury management, debt
management, advising leveraging banking
relationships etc.
Directorship positions or experience with Regulatory
interfaces and having an insight into Board processes,
structures, committee constitutions, protecting
stakeholder interests, aligning with appropriate
governance practices.
Leadership positions in enterprises by virtue of which
has requisite experience in management skills or
functional expertise across various functions of the
Company, guiding strategies for sustainable enhancing
enterprise reputation.
Ability to advise on organic/inorganic growth
opportunities through acquisitions / combinations, 
assess, build or purchase proposals, appreciative of
and understanding of the regulatory and legal
requirements of the sector/industry in which 
the Company operates in.
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
(ii) Board Meetings
appropriate directions, wherever necessary. The 
Board is supplied with adequate, relevant and timely 
The Board meets at regular intervals and has a formal 
information on the operations, financial performance of 
schedule in respect of matters placed before it for its 
the Company to facilitate the Board to make well 
consideration. While the routine matters for discussion 
informed decision. While the detailed notes on the 
include strategy, financial, operational and compliance 
agenda to be discussed at the meeting is provided well 
matters, meetings are also convened as and when 
in advance, presentations to supplement the agenda is 
deemed necessary. The Board on a periodical basis 
made at the meeting by the Management. The Board 
reviews the key business initiatives, the performance of 
also has complete access to the Management to seek 
the subsidiaries and the matters concerning thereto, 
clarifications on any matter of discussion. The Board 
compliance with the applicable laws and provides 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
109
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
st
31  March 2025, Wendt Grinding Technologies 
has established procedures in place to periodically 
Limited, Thailand does not meet the criteria of a 
review compliance reports pertaining to all laws 
material subsidiary mandating a Board representation. 
applicable to the Company. 
However, from a governance perspective, the Board 
The Company has laid down procedures to inform the 
decided that the representation of Ms. Hima Srinivas, 
Independent Director on the Board of Wendt Grinding 
Board members about the risk assessment and 
Technologies Limited would continue. The Policy on 
minimisation procedures. The Board reviews the 
Material Subsidiary is available on the website of the 
significant business risks identified by the 
C o m p a n y  a t  
Management and the mitigation process being 
undertaken annually in addition to a periodical review 
 which was last reviewed and revised on       
by the Risk Management Committee of the Board.
th 
14 March 2025 pursuant to SEBI (Listing Obligation 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
The Board periodically reviews the matters required to 
th
Regulations, 2024 dated 12  December 2024.The 
be placed before it, monitors the overall performance of 
Board continues to review the significant transactions 
the Company and inter alia reviews and approves the 
and arrangements of the subsidiary company besides 
quarterly financial statements, business plan, capital 
being apprised of its business plan and performance.
expenditure etc. During the year, nine (9) Board 
th
rd
meetings were held on 25  April 2024, 3  May 2024, 
In line with the amendments to the Companies Act, 
th
nd
st
24  June 2024, 22 July 2024, 21  October 2024, 
2013, Listing Regulations and SEBI (Prohibition of 
st
nd
rd
21 January 2025, 22  January 2025, 3  March 2025 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company has 
th 
and 14 March 2025.The dates of the Board meetings 
in place policies for determining materiality for 
are fixed in advance for the full calendar year to enable 
disclosure of events/information to stock exchanges, 
maximum attendance from the Board members. As 
policy for preservation and archival of documents, 
required under the Companies Act, 2013, the 
dividend distribution policy, policy on related party 
Company facilitates participation of a Director who is 
transactions, business responsibility policy, whistle 
unable to attend the Board / Committee meetings 
blower policy, corporate social responsibility policy, 
physically, through video conference or other audio 
policy for prevention of sexual harassment at 
visual means in the manner prescribed under the 
workplace. The above policies are periodically 
relevant regulations. During the year, all Board 
reviewed by the Board and are posted on the website of 
meetings were held through video conferencing mode.
the Company at 
     
A few of the policies were last reviewed and amended 
In line with the Regulation 24 of the Listing Regulations 
th
on 14  March 2025 in line with the SEBI (Listing 
requiring at least one Independent Director of the 
Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) (Third 
Company to be a Director on the Board of an unlisted 
th
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 dated 12  December 
material subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or 
2024
not, Ms. Hima Srinivas, Independent Director was 
nominated to the Board of Wendt Grinding 
rd
Technologies Limited on 3  June 2019. For the 
purposes of this requirement, a material subsidiary 
means any subsidiary whose net worth or turnover 
Besides the formal Board meetings, the Independent 
exceeds 20% of the consolidated net worth of the 
Directors hold meetings without the participation of the 
Company in the preceding financial year. As at         
Non-Independent Directors and the members of the 
h t t p s : / / w e n d t i n d i a . c o m / w p -
content/uploads/2025/03/Material-Subsidiary-
Policy.pdf
https://wendtindia.com/investors/.
Separate meeting of the Independent 
Directors
110
Annual Report 2024-25
Management. During the year, the Independent 
Company's performance, the initiatives taken/ proposed 
th
to be taken, marketing strategy, business risks and 
Directors met on 14  March 2025 and reviewed the 
mitigation plan, the regulatory changes impacting the 
performance of the Non-Independent Directors, Board 
Company etc. These initiatives help the Directors in 
as a whole and also assessed the quality, quantity and 
understanding the Company, its businesses, the 
timeliness of the flow of information between the 
regulatory arena in which it operates, thus enabling the 
Management and the Board. The Board as a whole, 
Directors in effectively contributing to the Board. 
reviewed the performance of the Chairman taking into 
Additionally, updates on Environmental, Social and 
account views of the Executive and Non-Executive 
Governance (ESG) initiatives and corporate 
th
Directors at its meeting held on 14  March 2025.
sustainability efforts form an integral part of the 
familiarisation framework. The familiarisation 
programme for Independent Directors is disclosed on 
The members of the Board are equipped with many 
the Company's website - 
opportunities to familiarise themselves with the 
Company, the operations and the Management with 
insights into the Company's operations, industry 
dynamics, regulatory framework, and governance 
practices. At the time of appointment of a Director, a 
During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation of 
formal induction programme comprising of a detailed 
its own performance, individual Directors as well as the 
presentation on the operations, the business segments 
working of the Committees as per the Board evaluation 
and profile, organisation structure and other market 
framework adopted by it. The manner and criteria for 
related information is done. The Directors are also 
the evaluation of the Directors including the 
provided with a letter of appointment along with the 
Independent Directors of the Company is detailed in 
Company's Code of Conduct detailing the duties and 
the Directors’ Report.
responsibilities of the Directors including that of an 
Independent Director. In addition, the Board members 
have an opportunity and access to interact with the 
The Board has constituted various Committees for 
Senior Management any time they wish to.
effectively discharging its responsibilities more 
The familiarisation sessions are conducted through 
specifically in areas as where specialised and 
various modes, including in-person briefings, virtual 
extensive discussions are required. The Board's 
meetings, detailed presentations by senior 
Committees include Audit Committee, Stakeholders 
management, and interactive discussions on critical 
Relationship Committee, Corporate Social 
business and regulatory developments. On an ongoing 
Responsibility Committee, Nomination and 
basis as well, exclusive plant visits are organised 
Remuneration Committee and the Risk Management 
periodically for the existing Directors to stay abreast of 
Committee. The Company Secretary acts as the 
the operational and manufacturing processes. The 
Secretary to the Committees of the Board. 
familiarisation process enables Directors gain a 
The Board at the time of constitution of each 
comprehensive understanding of the Company’s 
Committee determines the terms of reference and also 
business, operations, industry landscape, and 
delegates further powers from time to time. Various 
regulatory environment. The Board is also apprised on 
recommendations of the Committees are submitted to 
a quarterly basis through presentations and 
the Board for consideration & approval and the minutes 
discussions on the overall economic trends, the 
of all meetings of the Committees are circulated to the 
performance of the Company, analysis of the 
Board for information. 
circumstances which helps or adversely impacts the 
(iii)   Board Familiarisation
https://wendtindia.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/06/Familiarisation-
Programme.pdf
(iv)  Board Evaluation
B.   BOARD COMMITTEES
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
111
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
Composition & Meetings
Terms of Reference
The Audit Committee comprises of four (4) members of 
which three members including the Chairman are 
The role of the Audit Committee includes overseeing 
Independent Directors and all members of the 
the financial reporting process and disclosure of 
Committee are financially literate. The Statutory 
financial information, review of financial statements 
Auditor, Internal Auditor and members of the 
before submission to the Board, review of adequacy of 
Management Committee are invited to attend meetings 
internal control system, findings of internal audit, 
of the Committee. 
whistle blower mechanism, review and approval of 
related party transactions entered by the Company and 
During the financial year 2024-25, consequent to 
the subsidiary entities, scrutiny of inter-corporate loans 
induction of Mr. L Ramkumar and retirement of      
& investments, review of utilisation of loans and/ or 
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar, the committee was     
advances from / investments made in subsidiaries, 
re-constituted to effect the change. 
review of compliance with the provisions of SEBI 
During the year, the Committee had Six (6) meetings 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, 
th 
nd
st
on 25 April 2024, 22  July 2024, 21  October 2024, 
valuation of assets/undertakings of the Company, 
st 
nd
th
21 January 2025, 22  January 2025 and 14  March 
appointment of registered valuers etc., besides 
2025 for reviewing the financial statements, approving 
recommending the appointment of Auditors and their 
the related party transactions, considering the internal 
remuneration to the Board as well as approval of 
audit reports, audit plans and other matters as per the 
payments to Statutory Auditors for non-audit services 
terms of reference of the Committee. The composition 
and review of effectiveness of audit process. The Audit 
and attendance of the Committee members at the 
Committee also reviews the financial statements of 
meetings held during the year are given below:
unlisted subsidiary company, in particular, the 
investments made by it.
Name of member
No. of meetings attended 
(No. of meetings held)
rd
Shrinivas G Shirgurkar, Chairman(till 23  July 2024)
th
L Ramkumar, Chairman (from 24  July 2024)
Hima Srinivas
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Sridharan Rangarajan
Category
ID
ID
ID
ID
NED
2 (2)*
4(4)*
6 (6)
6 (6)
5 (6)
*Note:
rd
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar retired w.e.f. 23  July 2024.
th
Mr. L Ramkumar was inducted as a member w.e.f. 24  July 2024.
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Terms of Reference 
Board the appointment of Directors (b) recommend re-
election of Directors retiring by rotation (c) recommend 
the remuneration including pension rights and periodic 
increments of the Executive Director (d) determine the 
The role of the Committee is to (a) recommend to the 
annual incentive of the Executive Director     
112
Annual Report 2024-25
(e) recommend to the Board, the commission payable 
A Board is diverse when the Board comprises qualified 
annually to each of the Non-Wholetime Directors, 
people having varied range of experience, possessing 
within the limits fixed by shareholders (f) formulating 
relevant expertise to the business. In line with the 
criteria for appointment of Directors and Senior 
Board diversity policy, the Board is a balanced one 
Management and identification of persons who may be 
having collective knowledge of business strategy, 
qualified to be appointed in these positions (g) devise 
finance, manufacturing, technology, engineering etc. 
policy on Board diversity (h) formulate criteria for 
evaluation of Independent Directors/Board, evaluation 
of the Directors' performance (i) recommend 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is 
Remuneration policy to the Board (j) ensuring Board 
responsible for identifying persons for initial nomination 
Diversity (k) recommend to the Board the appointment 
as Directors as well as evaluating incumbent Directors 
and remuneration payable to Senior Management (l) 
for their continued service. The Committee has 
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
formulated criteria in terms of Section 178 of the 
experience on the Board and on the basis of such 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations inter 
evaluation, preparing a description of the role and 
alia detailing the qualifications in terms of personal 
capabilities required of an independent director, 
traits, experience & background, fit & proper, positive 
pertaining to the appointment / re-appointment of such 
attributes and independence standards to be 
Independent Director.
considered for nominating candidates for Board 
positions/re-appointment of Directors. 
The Committee has formulated the criteria for 
determining the qualifications, positive attributes and 
independence of a Director and the criteria for Senior 
Management positions in terms of Section178(3) of the 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is also 
Companies Act, 2013 besides laying down the criteria 
responsible for identifying persons who are qualified to 
for Board evaluation. The Board evaluation including 
be appointed in Senior Management. The Committee 
that of the Independent Directors is done based on the 
has formulated criteria in terms of personal traits, 
evaluation framework detailed elsewhere in the 
competencies, experience & background, etc. to be 
Directors' Report. The Company also has in place a 
considered for nominating candidates to Senior 
Board approved policy on the remuneration for 
Management positions.
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other 
employees which had been duly recommended by the 
Committee. The policy is available on the website of the 
The Committee comprises three (3) members of which 
C o m p a n y  a t  
two (2) are Independent Directors. 
During the financial year 2024-25, consequent to 
induction of Mr. L Ramkumar and retirement of      
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar, the nomination and 
remuneration committee was re-constituted to effect 
The Company has a Board diversity policy in place 
the change. 
which sets out the approach to having a diverse Board. 
Criteria for Board Nomination
Criteria for Senior Management
Composition & Meetings
h t t p s : / / w e n d t i n d i a . c o m / w p -
content/uploads/2025/02/criteria-for-board-
nomination-2025.pdf
Board Diversity Policy 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
113
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Name of member
No. of meetings attended 
(No. of meetings held)
th
L Ramkumar, Chairman(from 24  July 2024)
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Sridharan Rangarajan
Category
ID
ID
ID
NED
1 (1)*
5 (5)*
4 (4)*
5 (5)
*Note:
rd
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar retired w.e.f. 23  July 2024.
th
Mr. L Ramkumar was inducted as a member w.e.f. 24  July 2024.
th
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Raore-designated as a member effective 24  July 2024.
S T A K E H O L D E R S  R E L A T I O N S H I P  
COMMITTEE
Terms of Reference
Composition & Meetings
and initiatives taken for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/ annual reports/statutory notices by 
the shareholders, review of share transfers to the 
Investors Education and Protection Fund and 
The terms of reference of this Committee includes 
administering the unclaimed shares suspense account 
formulation of investor servicing policies, review of 
and performing other functions as delegated to it by the 
redressal of investor complaints and approval/ 
Board from time to time. 
overseeing of transfers, transmissions, transpositions, 
splitting, consolidation of securities, issue of 
certificates, demat/remat requests, review of service 
The Committee comprises three (3) members with one 
standards in respect of various services rendered by 
Independent Director. 
the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent, to consider and 
resolve the grievances of security holders of the 
The Committee met on two (2) occasions during the 
Company and to determine, monitor and review the 
th
nd
year on 25 April 2024 and 22 July 2024. The 
standards for resolution of stakeholders grievance, 
composition and attendance of Committee members 
review measures taken for effective exercise of voting 
are given below:
rights by shareholders, review of various measures 
Name of member
No. of meetings attended 
(No. of meetings held)
Sridharan Rangarajan, Chairman
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Muthiah Venkatachalam
Category
NED
ID
NED
2 (2)
2 (2)
1(2)
th 
rd 
th
nd
The Committee met on five (5) occasions during the year on 25 April 2024, 3 May 2024, 24  June 2024, 22  July 
st
2024 and 21  August 2024.The composition and attendance of Committee members are given below:
114
Annual Report 2024-25
There were five (5) investor complaints received during 
Board has approved a CSR policy formulated and 
the year and all have been resolved. The complaints 
recommended by the Committee which is uploaded 
primarily related to the issuance of duplicate share 
and available on the Company’s website at the 
certificates, requests for physical copies of the 
following link 
Company's annual report, and concerns regarding 
 The 
share purchase price.All the grievances have been 
functions of the Committee inter alia include 
resolved to the satisfaction of the shareholders and 
recommending the annual action plan including the 
there were no investor service complaints pending as 
amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR 
st  
activities during the year, monitoring the 
at 31 March 2025.
implementation of CSR activities as per the CSR policy 
Mr. Arjun Raj P, Company Secretary is the Compliance 
of the Company from time to time. 
Officer for the purposes of compliance with the 
requirements of the Listing Regulations. 
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited, Hyderabad is the 
The Committee comprises three (3) members of which 
Company's Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA). 
two (2) are Independent Directors. The Management 
The contact details are available in the General 
Committee members are invited to the Committee 
Shareholder Information section of the Report.
meetings. 
During the financial year 2024-25, consequent to 
retirement of Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar, the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee was re-constituted by 
the Board to effect the change.
th
The Board has constituted a Corporate Social 
The Committee met twice (2) on 25  April 2024 and  
nd
Responsibility (CSR) Committee in line with the 
22  January 2025 during the year. The composition 
requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 for assisting 
and attendance of Committee members are as follows:
in discharging its corporate social responsibility. The 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-
content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/csrpolicy.pdf.
Composition & Meetings
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITTEE
Terms of reference
Name of member
No. of meetings attended 
(No. of meetings held)
Hima Srinivas, Chairperson
rd
Shrinivas G Shirgurkar(till 23  July 2024)
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Sridharan Rangarajan
Category
ID
ID
ID
NED
2 (2)
1 (1)*
2 (2)
 2 (2)
*Note:
rd
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar retired w.e.f. 23  July 2024.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
115
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Name of member
No. of meetings attended 
(No. of meetings held)
Bhagya Chandra Rao, Chairman
Sridharan Rangarajan
th
C Srikanth (till 5  May 2024)
th
Ninad Gadgil (from 6  May 2024)
Category
ID
NED
ED
ED
2 (2)
 2 (2)
1 (1)*
1 (1)*
*Note:
th
Mr. C. Srikanth resigned effective 5  May 2024.
th
Mr. Ninad Gadgil was inducted as a member effective 6  May 2024.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Term of reference
Composition & Meetings
•
Having in place an early warning mechanism for 
identification of threats/opportunities.
•
Enabling optimum resources allocation and 
The role of this Committee is to review the risk 
efficient use.
management framework annually to ensure that it is 
•
Promoting an innovative culture with proper 
comprehensive & well developed, to periodically 
understanding of risks.
review the process for systematic identification and 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the major 
assessment of the business risks, to assess the critical 
risks as per the risk registers prepared pursuant to the 
risk exposures by specialised analysis and conduct 
Risk Management Policy of the Company. 
quality reviews and report to the Board the details of 
any significant development relating to risk 
management including the steps being taken to 
The Committee comprises three (3) members of which 
manage the exposures and besides reviewing risks 
one (1) is an Independent Director. The Management 
associated with cyber security.
Committee members are invited to the meetings. 
The Committee has formulated a risk management 
During the financial year 2024-25, consequent to 
policy with the following key objectives:
induction of Mr. Ninad Gadgil and stepping down of        
•
Strengthening the business performance by 
Mr. C Srikanth, the Risk Management Committee was 
informed decision making and planning.
re-constituted to effect this change. 
•
Adding sustainability value to the activities of the 
th 
The Committee met twice on 25
April 2024 and       
Company.
st  
21
October 2024 during the year. The composition 
•
Enhancing risk awareness amongst employees.
and attendance of Committee members are as follows:
116
Annual Report 2024-25
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
https://wendtindia.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/03/Remuneration-Policy.pdf
commission on profit. The Non-Executive Directors 
(except Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan) are paid 
st
As at 31  March 2025, the Senior Management 
remuneration by way of sitting fees for every 
comprises of eight (8) personnel, Mr. Mukesh Kumar 
Board/Committee meeting attended by them. 
Hamirwasia, Chief Financial Officer; Mr. P Arjun Raj, 
Considering the increased time spent by Ms. Hima 
Company Secretary; Mr. R B Uday, Head - Sales and 
Srinivas, Independent Director in matters pertaining to 
Marketing; Mr. Rathinam P, Head - Manufacturing;   
the Company and its subsidiary, Wendt Grinding 
Mr. Raghunatha Raidu B P, Head - Non - Super 
Technologies Limited, a differential commission is paid 
Abrasives; Mr. Satheesh C, Head - Human Resources; 
to her. The compensation structure of the Directors 
th
Mr. Thiyagarajan R, Head - Research & Development 
was last reviewed and revised by Board on 17  March 
and Mr. Sanjaya S C - Head - Quality Assurance 
2023.
Division. 
The compensation of the Executive Director comprises 
a fixed component and a performance incentive based 
The Company has in place a Remuneration policy to 
on certain pre-agreed parameters. The compensation 
provide the framework for remuneration of the Board 
is determined based on levels of responsibility and 
members as well as all employees including the Key 
scales prevailing in the industry. The Executive 
Managerial Personnel and Senior Management. This 
Director is not paid sitting fees for any Board/ 
policy is guided by the principles and objectives as 
Committee meetings attended by him.
enumerated in Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 19 read with Part D of Schedule II of the 
The Remuneration Policy is made available on the 
Listing Regulations to ensure reasonableness and 
website of the Company 
sufficiency of remuneration to attract, retain and 
 
motivate competent resources, a clear relationship of 
th
which was last reviewed and revised on 14  March 
remuneration to performance and a balance between 
rewarding short-term and long-term performance.
2025 in line with SEBI (Listing Obligation and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
The compensation to the Non-Executive Directors 
th
Regulations, 2024 dated 12  December 2024.
(except Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan) takes the form of 
Director
Commission@
rd
Shrinivas G Shirgurkar (till 23  July 2024)
Hima Srinivas
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Sridharan Rangarajan
Muthiah Venkatachalam 
th
L Ramkumar ( from 24  July 2024)
Total
Sitting Fee
1.70
3.20
4.10
-
1.70
1.90
12.60
1.56
7.00
5.00
-
5.00
3.44
22.00
@ will be paid after adoption of accounts by shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS 
Non-Executive Directors
(Rs. in Lakhs)
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
117
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Director
C Srikanth**
Fixed Component
Variable Component
Ninad Gadgil
137.81
22.29
0.20
-
14.81
1.71
0.00
27.24
*includes contribution to National Pension System of PFRDA.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Executive Directors
Salary & Allowances
Retirement benefits*
Perquisites
Incentive(a)
th
** Mr. C Srikanth stepped down as the Executive Director & CEO of the Company w.e.f. closing hours of  5  May 2024.
th
Mr. Ninad Gadgil took over as the Executive Director & CEO of the Company w.e.f. 6  May 2025.
(a) Represents incentive paid during the financial year 2024-25 in respect of the financial year 2023-24.
(b) As per the terms of their remuneration, the Whole-time Director is eligible for an annual incentive based on a balanced 
scorecard which comprises Company financials, Company scorecard and personal objectives. For the financial year 
2024-25, a sum of Rs. 2.41 Lakhs and Rs. 33.64 Lakhs has been provided in the accounts for this purpose payable to Mr. 
C Srikanth (as per service condition in proportion to the tenure of employment - date until he served as the Executive 
Director & CEO) and Mr. Ninad Gadgil respectively. The actual amount will be decided by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee at its meeting to be held in July 2025.
General Body Meetings
Last three Annual General Meetings
Financial
Year
Date
Time
Venue
Special Resolution passed
2023 - 24
22.07.2024
03.00 PM
AGM Conducted
through Video
Conferencing (‘VC’)/
Other Audio Visual
Means (‘OAVM’)
2022 - 23
21.07.2023
03.00 PM
2021 - 22
21.07.2022
03.00 PM
Appointment of Mr. L Ramkumar as
an Independent Director.
No special resolutions passed.
1. Re-appointment of Ms. Hima      
Srinivas as an Independent     
Director.
2. A p p r o v a l  o f  p a y m e n t  o f      
commission to Directors of the 
Company.
There are no proposals to pass special resolutions through postal ballot except those requiring to be passed pursuant 
to the Companies Act, 2013 / Listing Regulations which will be done after providing adequate notice to the 
shareholders. During the financial year 2024-25, the Company did not pass any special resolution through postal ballot. 
However, the following ordinary resolution was proposed and passed through postal ballot with requisite majority.
Financial
Year
Date of passing
resolution
Type of 
resolution
Mode
Resolution passed
2024-25
th
26  February 2025
Ordinary
resolution
Approval of Transactions
with Wendt GmbH, related party
Postal Ballot
118
Annual Report 2024-25
For the above postal ballot exercise, Mr. R Sridharan, Practicing Company Secretary of M/s. R Sridharan & Associates, 
who had given his consent, was appointed as the Scrutiniser for conducting the postal ballot through remote e-voting in 
a fair and transparent manner. The notice for postal ballot was issued in accordance with the provisions of Companies 
Act, 2013, Listing Regulations and the circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India. The Company had engaged the services of M/s. KFin Technologies Limited to provide 
remote e-voting facility to its members to exercise their votes electronically in a secured manner on the resolution set 
forth in the postal ballot notice. In compliance with the MCA Circulars, voting for the ordinary resolution set out in the 
postal ballot notice was provided and carried out through remote e-voting only. The remote e-voting commenced on  
th
th
28  January 2025 (09.00 a.m. IST) and closed on 26  February 2025 (05.00 p.m. IST). 
th
The consolidated results of the voting by Postal Ballot and e-voting were announced on 27  February 2025. The results 
were also displayed on the website of the Company at 
 and on the website of        
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited at 
 and also communicated to BSE Limited (BSE), 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
The details of voting pattern for the above resolution are as below:
https://wendtindia.com/investors/
https://evoting.kfintech.com/
Particulars
% of Votes
Votes in favour of the Resolution
Votes against the Resolution
Invalid Votes
99.35
0.65
0.00
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY / VIGIL 
MECHANISM
https://wendtindia.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/08/Whistle-Blower-
Policy_Wendt.pdf.
PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING
Committee. In line with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Whistle Blower policy 
also covers reporting of instances that may result in 
The Company is committed to the highest standards of 
leakage of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information 
Corporate Governance and stakeholder responsibility. 
(UPSI). The Whistle blower policy is available on the 
To provide an avenue to raise concerns, if any, in line 
Company's website at 
with the Company's commitment to the high standards 
of ethical, moral and legal conduct of business and 
 It is affirmed that during the year, no 
transparency, the Company has established the 
employee was denied access to the Audit Committee.
Whistle Blower policy. It allows Employees, Directors, 
and other Stakeholders to report unethical behaviour, 
fraud, or violations of legal and regulatory requirements 
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for 
without fear of retaliation. The mechanism also 
Prohibition of Insider Trading with a view to regulate 
provides for adequate safeguards against victimisation 
trading in securities by the Directors and designated 
of employees who avail of the mechanism and also for 
employees of the Company. The Code requires pre-
appointment of an Ombudsman who will deal with the 
clearance for dealing in the Company's shares for all 
complaints received. The policy also lays down the 
transactions by Directors and designated employees 
process to be followed for dealing with complaints and 
(together called ‘Designated Persons’) and prohibits 
in exceptional cases, also provides for direct appeal to 
the purchase or sale of Company's securities by 
the Chairperson of the Audit Committee. In line with the 
Designated Persons while in possession of 
requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, the policy 
unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) in 
coverage extends to the Directors of the Company. The 
relation to the Company. Further, trading in securities is 
Ombudsman for dealing with any referrals made by 
also prohibited for Designated Persons during the 
Board members is the Chairman of the Audit 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
119
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
period when the Trading Window is closed. During the 
 The requirements of Regulation 17 
year, Audit Committee reviewed the compliance with 
to Regulation 27 of the Listing Regulations and clauses 
the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of 
(b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) to the extent applicable to 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
the Company have been complied with as disclosed in 
and also verified that the systems for internal control as 
this Report. Further, there were no instances of non-
required under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
compliance by the Company nor were there any 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
penalties or strictures imposed on the Company by the 
are adequate and are operating effectively. The 
stock exchanges, SEBI or any statutory authority on 
Company Secretary who is appointed as Compliance 
any matter related to capital markets in the preceding 
Officer is responsible for implementation of the Code. 
three years. The Company has a policy on prevention 
The Company has in place an online system for 
of sexual harassment at workplace in line with the 
monitoring the compliance of the Code by its 
requirement of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
designated employees. The Company also has in 
the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) 
place a Code for practices and procedures for fair 
Act, 2013. The Company had constituted an Internal 
disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information 
Complaints Committee as required under Sexual 
which is available on the website of the Company at 
Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013. The disclosure in 
relation to the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of 
th
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
 which was last reviewed on 14  March 
Redressal) Act, 2013 for the FY 2024-25 is as below:
2025.
Number of complaints filed during the financial year
: 0
 
Number of complaints disposed off during the financial year
: 0
During the FY 2024-25, there were no materially 
Number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year : 0
significant transactions with the Related parties, which 
were in conflict with the interests of the Company. The 
transactions entered into with the Related parties 
during the FY 2024-25 were in the ordinary course of 
During the year, the Company has made the following 
business at arm’s length basis and approved by the 
payments to M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered 
Audit Committee. In line with Regulation 23(4) of SEBI 
Accountants LLP, Statutory Auditors and all entities in 
Listing Regulations, the Company has, obtained the 
the network firm/ network entity of which the Statutory 
approval of the shareholders for Material Related Party 
Auditor is a part of. During the year, the Company's 
Transactions between the Company and Wendt 
subsidiary has not made any payments to the Statutory 
GmbH, Promoter (for the FY 2024-25 & 2025-26).
Auditors and all entities in the network firm/network 
The Company has devised policies on dealing with 
entity of which the Statutory Auditor is a part of. The 
Related Party Transactions and for determination of 
Company has relied on the information furnished by the 
Material subsidiary. The policy on dealing with related 
Statutory Auditors in respect of the firms / entities 
party transactions is available on the website of the 
covered under network firm / network entity of which 
Company at 
the Statutory Auditor is a part of.
Transactions.pdf.
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/ 
Code-of-Practices-Procedures-for-Fair-Disclosure-of-
UPSI-3.pdf
DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE RELATING TO FEE PAID TO 
STATUTORY AUDITOR
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content 
/uploads/2024/04/Policy-on-Related-Party-
Network firm
Amount
Price Waterhouse Chartered
Accountants LLP
Statutory Audit including limited review
Tax Audit and certifications 
Service availed
14.50
1.00
(Rs. in Lakhs)
120
Annual Report 2024-25
Payment in respect of non-audit services provided by 
Karnataka (in Kannada) with a QR code (since January 
the Statutory Auditors to the Company are made only 
2025) for accessing the full copy of the financial results 
with the approval of the Audit Committee as required 
along with an extract of the results. The financial 
under Section 144 of the Companies Act, 2013.
results, press releases and presentations made to 
institutional investors / analysts are posted on the 
Company’s website 
In order to avoid duplication and overlap between the 
The commodity price risks / foreign exchange risks and 
Directors Report and a separate Management 
the risk management strategy thereof is detailed in the 
Discussion & Analysis (MD&A), the information 
Board’s report. The Company does not have any 
required to be provided in the MD&A has been given in 
exposure hedged through commodities and hence in 
the Board's Report itself as permitted by the Listing 
terms of Regulation 34(3) read with clause 9(n) of Part 
Regulations.
C of Schedule V of Listing Regulations does not arise.
During the year, no credit ratings were obtained by the 
As per the information available with the Company, 
Company nor were there revisions. The disclosure 
there are no agreements entered into by the 
relating to reaffirmation of the existing ratings in respect 
shareholders, Promoters, Promoters Group entities, 
of the borrowings of the Company forms part of the 
related parties, directors, Key managerial personnel, 
Board’s Report and are available on the website of the 
employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and 
Company at 
associates companies which are binding the Company 
in terms of clause 5A of Para A of Part A of Schedule III 
of the Listing Regulations except as provided below.
st
On 21  January 2025, M/s. Wendt GmbH, Germany 
and M/s. Carborundum Universal Limited, Promoters 
of the Company executed an agreement amending the 
During the year, the Company did not extend any loans 
terms of the Shareholders agreement entered between 
or advances to firms/companies in which Directors are 
them with respect to their shareholding in the 
interested in terms of Section 184 of the Companies 
Company. The amendment was aimed to facilitate the 
Act, 2013.
divestment of shareholding by Wendt GmbH in one or 
more tranches in the secondary market by revising the 
Right of First Refusal clauses in the Shareholders' 
The Company recognises the significance of 
agreement for a certain period of time. 
dissemination of timely and relevant information to 
shareholders. In order to enable the stakeholders to 
understand the financial results in a meaningful 
The quarterly financial results are published in leading 
manner, the Company gives a press release along with 
financial newspapers, uploaded on the Company's 
the publication of quarterly/ annual financial results. 
website, and any major developments are conveyed in 
The quarterly unaudited financial results and the 
the press releases issued by the Company and posted 
annual audited financial results are normally published 
on the Company's website. The Company therefore did 
in Business Standard (in English) and Vijaya 
https://wendtindia.com/investors/ 
DISCLOSURE OF COMMODITY PRICE 
RISKS AND COMMODITY HEDGING 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
ACTIVITIES
DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN TYPES OF 
DISCLOSURE ON CREDIT RATINGS
AGREEMENTS  BINDING  LISTED ENTITIES
https://wendtindia.com/investors/# 
investors-credit-rating. 
LOANS AND ADVANCES IN THE NATURE 
OF LOANS TO FIRMS/ COMPANIES IN 
WHICH DIRECTORS ARE INTERESTED
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
NON-MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
121
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
not send the half yearly performance update 
Exchange Board of India / Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
individually to the shareholders of the Company.
or any such statutory authority is annexed and forms 
part of this Report. 
Further, the Financial Statements have an unmodified 
opinion by the Company's Auditors. Separate 
individuals hold the positions of Chairperson and Chief 
The Company has in place a Code of Conduct which 
Executive Officer (CEO). The Chairperson is a Non-
helps to maintain high standards of ethics for the 
Executive Independent Director who is not related to 
Company's employees. The Code lays down the 
CEO. 
standard of conduct which is expected to be followed 
The Internal Auditors reports directly to the Audit 
by the Directors and by the employees in their business 
Committee for the purpose of audit conducted by them. 
dealings and in particular on matters relating to integrity 
Other non-mandatory requirement such as half yearly 
in the work place, in business practices and in dealing 
communication of financial performance has not been 
with stakeholders. The Company has adopted a Code 
adopted at present.
of Conduct which applies to all its Directors and 
employees in terms of Regulation 17 of the Listing 
Regulations. All the Board Members and the Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company have affirmed 
In accordance with the requirements of Regulation 
their compliance with the Code of Conduct. A 
17(8) of the Listing Regulations, Mr. Ninad Gadgil, 
declaration signed by the Chief Executive Officer is 
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer and Mr. 
enclosed. 
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia, Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company have given a certificate to the Board on 
The Code of Conduct is available on the website of the 
matters relating to financial reporting, compliance with 
Company at 
relevant statutes and adequacy of internal control 
 which was 
systems as contemplated in Regulation 17(8) read with 
th
reviewed and revised on 14  March 2025 pursuant to 
Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations.
SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
th
dated 12  December 2024. 
A certificate from M/s. Srinidhi Sridharan & Associates, 
A separate section in this regard is annexed and forms 
Practising Company Secretaries, Chennai on 
part of this Report.
compliance with Corporate Governance requirements 
is annexed. 
Shareholders holding shares in physical form are 
requested to address their communications regarding 
change in address/contact details by quoting their folio 
number to the Company’s Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent (RTA) or to the Company by e-mailing 
A certificate from M/s. Srinidhi Sridharan & Associates, 
to 
 Shareholders 
Practising Company Secretaries, Chennai confirming 
holding shares in electronic form may send the 
that none of the Directors of the Company have been 
communications regarding the above to their 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or 
Depository Participant. 
continuing as Directors by the Securities and 
CODE OF CONDUCT
CEO/CFO CERTIFICATION
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/ 
uploads/2025/03/code-of-conduct.pdf
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARY’S 
C E R T I F I C A T E  O N  C O R P O R A T E  
GOVERNANCE 
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
INSTRUCTIONS TO SHAREHOLDERS
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARY’S 
CERTIFICATE ON THE DIRECTOR’S 
DISQUALIFICATION 
investorservices@wendtindia.com.
122
Annual Report 2024-25
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide circulars dated  
Shareholders are requested to submit Form ISR-1 for 
th
th
th
updating PAN and other KYC details with RTA of the 
5  May 2020, 28  December 2022, 25  September 
th
Company. In case of mismatch in the signature of the 
2023 and 19  September 2024 has relaxed the 
holder in the records of RTA, the shareholders need to 
requirement to send Annual Report in physical mode. 
furnish original cancelled cheque and banker’s 
Accordingly, an electronic copy of the Annual Report 
attestation of the signature as per Form ISR-2. It is 
will be sent to all the Members holding shares in 
advised that the shareholders send the original 
dematerialised mode and whose e-mail IDs are 
cancelled cheque with name of shareholder printed on 
available with the Depository Participant(s) and to all 
it and duly filled Form ISR-2 along with Form ISR-1 to 
the Members holding shares in physical mode whose 
update the signature so as to avoid further 
e-mail IDs are registered with the Company / RTA for 
correspondence in case of signature mismatch. 
communication purposes. Shareholders holding 
Shareholders are requested to submit Form SH-13 
shares in physical mode are requested to furnish their 
duly filled to register their nomination. However, in case 
e-mail addresses with Company’s Registrar and Share 
shareholders want to opt-out of nomination, Form   
Transfer Agent    (RTA) or to the Company by e-mailing 
ISR-3 can be submitted to RTA. Shareholders may 
to 
 for obtaining the 
send correspondences in respect of their holdings to 
Notice and the Annual Report. Alternatively, the same 
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited at their contact details 
will also be made available on the website of the 
provided below:
Company at 
 
Detailed information on registration of e-mail 
Ms. Krishna Priya Maddula
addresses with the Company/RTA is provided in the 
KFin Technologies Limited
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
Notice convening the AGM. 
Unit: Wendt (India) Limited
Shareholders are requested to register their e-mail ID 
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32, Financial District, 
with the RTA / Depository Participant to enable the 
Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500032, India
Toll Free No.:1800 309 4001
Company to send communications electronically. 
Email: 
Members are advised to intimate the details of their 
PAN and bank account details to enable electronic 
Members may note that pursuant to SEBI (Listing 
remittance of dividend or alternatively for being 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth 
incorporated in the dividend warrants. This would help 
st 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018 effective 1 April 2019, 
to avoid fraudulent encashment of dividend warrants.
requests for effecting transfer of securities in physical 
form shall not be processed unless the securities are 
As per Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
th
held in the dematerialised form with a Depository. 
master circular dated 7  May 2024 it is mandatory for 
Members would be able to transfer their shares only 
holders of physical securities to furnish their PAN, 
after necessarily dematerialising their physical shares. 
email address, mobile number, bank account details 
Hence, Members are encouraged to dematerialise 
and also to either register or declare opt out for 
their physical holdings to demat form at the earliest. As 
nomination facility against the shares held in the 
per the mandate of SEBI, the Company is required to 
company. The forms for updation of the aforesaid 
conduct enhanced due diligence for transactions in 
details are available on the website of the Company at 
physical folios of shareholders. 
investorservices@wendtindia.com
https://wendtindia.com/investors/.
einward.ris@kfintech.com 
https://wendtindia.com/investors/#investorsmandator
y-furnishing-of-pan.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
123
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Members are also requested to note that dividends 
Participants (DPs). Shareholders may contact the 
Company Secretary in case of any query regarding 
declared by the Company will be taxed in the hands of 
their holdings in the Company.
the recipient of dividend i.e. shareholders. All dividends 
st 
declared after 1 April 2020 by the Company have been 
paid/will be paid to the Members after deducting tax at 
The Company recognises the need and is committed to 
the applicable rate of interest prescribed under the 
provide a safe, healthy and respectable work 
Income Tax Act, 1961. Members may note that in the 
environment to all its employees. The Company strives 
absence of PAN, the Company would be required to 
to provide an environment, which is free of 
deduct tax at a higher rate prescribed under the Income 
discrimination, intimidation and abuse. The Company 
Tax Act, 1961. Hence, Members who have not 
has put in place SA 8000 System & Social 
furnished their PAN to the Company are requested to 
Accountability Policy. As per the policy, the Company 
immediately submit a copy of their PAN to the 
will not engage, support or tolerate the use of Child 
Company. Members seeking non-deduction of tax on 
Labour, Forced or Compulsory Labour, Discrimination 
their dividends may submit Form 15G / 15H as 
based on Race, National or Social origin, Caste, Birth, 
applicable to the Company on a yearly basis. The 
Religion, Disability, Gender etc., Corporal punishment, 
formats of Form 15G / Form 15H are available in 
Mental or Physical coercion, verbal abuse, harsh or 
inhumane treatment of personnel and will comply with 
all the requirements as outlined by applicable Law.
 Members may contact the Company 
Secretary at contact numbers provided in the General 
Shareholder Information in case of any clarification 
with respect to the dividends declared by the Company.
In case of Members holding shares in demat form, all 
intimations are to be sent to their respective Depository 
SOCIAL  ACCOUNTABILITY  POLICY
https://wendtindia.com/investors/ #investors-tax-on-
dividend.
On behalf of the Board
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York 
April 23, 2025
124
Annual Report 2024-25
Description
Links
SIGNIFICANT LINKS IN THE ANNUAL REPORT:
Dividend Distribution Policy
Corporate Social
Responsibility Policy
Policy on Related Party
Transactions
Business Responsibility Policy
Code of Conduct for Directors
and Senior Management
Draft Annual Return for
the FY 2024-25
Familiarisation Programme
Composition of Board
Committees 
CSR projects
for the FY 2024-25
Credit Rating
Mandatory Furnishing
of KYC Details
Form 15G/15H
Remuneration Policy
Whistle Blower Policy
Policy on Material Subsidiaries
Criteria for Board Nominations
Code of Practices and
Procedures for Fair Disclosure
of Unpublished Price Sensitive
Information
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
125
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/dividend-distribution-policy.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/themes/wendtindia/pdf/csrpolicy.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Busines-Responsibility-Policy.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Remuneration-Policy.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Whistle-Blower-Policy_Wendt.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Material-Subsidiary-Policy.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/criteria-for-board-nomination-2025.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Code-of-Practices-Procedures-for-Fair-Disclosure-of-UPSI-3.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/code-of-conduct.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Familiarisation-Programme.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Committee-Composition.pdf 
https://wendtindia.com/investors/#investors-credit-rating
https://wendtindia.com/investors/#investors-mandatory-furnishing-of-pan
https://wendtindia.com/investors/#investors-tax-on-dividend
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/CSR-projects-for-the-FY-2024-25.pdf
https://wendtindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Annual-Return-Form-MGT-7.pdf
GENERAL  SHAREHOLDER  INFORMATION
Internal Auditor (for the FY 2024-25)
1. Address for Correspondence
Registered Office Address
Secretarial Auditor (for the FY 2024-25) 
Compliance Officer
Cost Auditor (for the FY 2024-25) 
arjunrajp@wendtindia.com
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
4. Financial Year
5. Plant Location
Wendt (India) Limited
einward.ris@kfintech.com;
www.kfintech.com;
2. Corporate Identity Number:
6. Subsidiary
M/s. Wendt Grinding Technologies 
3. Auditors
Limited, Thailand
Statutory Auditor 
 
M/s. Profaids Consulting,
OMS COURT, Level 3, No: 1, Nathamuni Street, 
 
Gopathi Narayanaswami Chetty Road, T. Nagar, 
st
Flat No. 105, 1  Floor, Cauvery Block, 
Chennai - 600017 
National Games Housing Complex, Koramangala, 
Bengaluru - 560047, Karnataka 
M/s. Srinidhi Sridharan & Associates, Company
Tel : +91 80 25701423/1424 
Secretaries, 
Fax: +91 80 25701425
Thiruvarangam Apartments, Flat No.3, First Floor, 
New No.44, Old No.25, Unnamalai Ammal Street, 
T. Nagar, Chennai - 600 017
Arjun Raj P 
Wendt (India) Limited, 
Plot No. 69/70, SIPCOT Industrial Estate 
BY & Associates, Cost Accountants
th
Hosur- 635126, Tamil Nadu 
New No 443 & 445, 5  Floor, Annexe 1,
E-mail: 
 
Guna Complex, Anna Salai, Teynampet,
Chennai - 600018
KFin Technologies Limited, 
st
st
Unit: Wendt (India) Limited, 
1  April  to 31  March 
SeleniumTowerB, Plot Nos. 31&32, Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, 
Hyderabad - 500 032;
 
Tel: +91-40-67161527;
a.
Plot No. 69/70, SIPCOT Industrial Estate 
Toll Free no.: 1800-309-4001;
Hosur- 635126, Tamil Nadu 
E-mail: 
Tel: +91 4344 276851/52, 405500 
Website: 
Fax: +91 4344 405620, 405630 
Contact Person: Ms. Rajitha Cholleti
b.
Building No. 35, Indrayani Nagar Road, Bhosari,
Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune, Maharastra - 411026
L85110KA1980PLC003913
 
109/21, Moo.4, Tambon Pluakdaeng, 
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP,  
th
5  Floor, Tower 'D', The Millenia, 
Aumpur Pluakdaeng,  Rayong 21140 Thailand
1  &  2  Murphy Road, Ulsoor, Bangalore - 560008 
Stock Exchange
Stock Code
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051
BSE Ltd. 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001
WENDT
505412
Annual listing fees has been paid to the above stock exchanges.
International Securities Identification Number (ISIN): INE274C01019
STOCK MARKET INFORMATION
1. Listing on stock exchanges and stock code
126
Annual Report 2024-25
2.
Depositories Connectivity
The Company has signed agreements with the following Depositories to provide the facility of holding equity 
shares in dematerialised form:
Name of the Depository
Website
National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL)
Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL)
www.nsdl.co.in
www.cdslindia.com
Share Capital Details
st
Shareholding Pattern as on 31  March 2025
st
The total number of outstanding shares as on 31  March 2025 is 20,00,000. All the shares have been fully paid up. As 
st
on 31  March 2025, 19,87,742 shares constituting 99.39% of the total paid up capital of the Company have been 
dematerialised. A quarterly audit is carried out by an independent auditor to reconcile the total share capital admitted 
with the Depositories and held in physical form with the issued and listed capital which is submitted to the stock 
exchanges and placed before the Board. 
Category
% to total paid up capital
Promoters
Mutual Funds
Bodies Corporate 
Banks 
Individuals 
Non-Resident Indians
HUF
Others (Clearing Members, IEPF etc.)
TOTAL
75.00
6.69
0.38
0.09
16.32
0.45
0.46
0.61
100
st
Distribution of Shareholding as on 31  March 2025
Category (Amount) (Rs.)
1 - 5,000 
5,001 - 10,000
10,001 - 20,000
20,001 - 30,000
30,001 - 40,000
40,001 - 50,000
50,001 - 1,00,000
1,00,001 & Above
Total
No. of holders
% to holders 
No. of Shares
% to Equity
9552
54
20
3
3
-
2
5
9639
99.10
0.56
0.21
0.03
0.03
-
0.02
0.05
100.00 
2,46,517
39,124
29,339
7,568
10,200
-
10,785
16,56,467
20,00,000 
12.33
1.96
1.47
0.38
0.51
-
0.54
82.81
100.00 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
127
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Outstanding GDRS/ADRS/Warrants etc.
Share Transfer Process
AGM & Dividend details 
(i) Forthcoming  Annual  General  Meeting 
(ii) Dividend 
Unclaimed Dividend
The Company has not issued any GDRS/ADRS /Warrants or any convertible instruments during the financial year 2024-25.
The applications for transfer of shares and other requests from shareholders holding shares in physical form are processed by 
KFin Technologies Limited, Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent. However, transfer of shares in physical mode is 
prohibited effective April 01, 2019. In respect of transmission of shares, all requests are considered for approval by the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee. As stated in the Corporate Governance Report, Members holding shares in physical 
form are urged to dematerialise the shares as they would be unable to transfer the shares in physical form hereafter in view of 
the requirements prescribed in this regard by SEBI.
st
Monday, the 21  July 2025 at 3.00 P.M. IST through video conferencing/other audio visual means.
nd
The Board at its meeting held on 22  January 2025 had approved payment of an interim dividend on the equity shares of the 
th
rd
Company at 300% i.e., Rs. 30/- per equity share which was paid on 18  February 2025. The Board at its meeting held on 23  
st
April 2025 has further recommended a payment of final dividend at 200% i.e., Rs. 20/- per equity share for the year ended 31  
th
March 2025. The final dividend will be paid by 12  August 2025 upon declaration by the shareholders at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
Dividends remaining unclaimed/unpaid for a period of seven years shall be transferred to the Investor Education Protection 
Fund (IEPF). The details of dividend paid by the Company and the respective due dates of transfer of the 
unclaimed/unencashed dividend to the IEPF of the Central Government are as below:
The Company has transferred unclaimed/ unencashed dividends upto interim dividend for FY 2017-18 to the IEPF during the 
st
year ended 31  March 2025. The Company has uploaded the details relating to unclaimed dividends on its website for the 
information of its shareholders.
Year
2017-18
2018-19
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2020-21
2021-22
2021-22
2022-23
2022-23
2023-24
2023-24
2024-25
Type of Dividend
Dividend per 
share (Rs.)
Date of declaration
Due date
for transfer
Final
Interim
Final
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
15.00
15.00
15.00
25.00
10.00
20.00
20.00
45.00
30.00
50.00
30.00
20.00
30.00
24/07/2018
23/01/2019
22/07/2019
24/07/2020
22/01/2021
23/07/2021
21/01/2022
22/07/2022
18/01/2023
21/07/2023
19/01/2024
22/07/2024
22/01/2025
30/08/2025
01/03/2026
28/08/2026
30/08/2027
28/02/2028
29/08/2028
27/02/2029
28/08/2029
24/02/2030
27/08/2030
25/02/2031
22/08/2031
24/02/2032
128
Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
global/en/home.html
Shares transferred to IEPF
Other disclosures 
https://www.mca.gov.in/content/mca/ 
 along with the requisite 
documents. Shareholders are requested to contact the 
In terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 
Company's RTA - KFin Technologies Limited or the 
read with Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF) 
Company in this regard. The contact details are 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
available in the General Shareholder information of this 
Rules, 2016, the Company is required to transfer the 
Report.
shares in respect of which dividends have remained 
The Company does not have any shares in the demat 
unclaimed for a period of seven consecutive years or 
suspense account or unclaimed suspense account.
more to the IEPF Account established by the Central 
Government. As required under the said Rules, the 
Company had published a Notice in the newspapers 
inviting the Members attention to the aforesaid Rules. 
During the year, there has been no instance where the 
The Company has also sent out individual 
Board did not accept the recommendation of its 
communications to the concerned Members whose 
Committees. Further during the year, the Company has 
shares were liable to be transferred to IEPF Authority, 
not raised funds through preferential allotment or 
pursuant to the said Rules to take immediate action in 
qualified institutions placement.
st
the matter. As at 31  March 2025, the Company has 
transferred 11,467 shares to the IEPF Authority. 
Shareholders are entitled to claim the shares from the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority by 
making an application online in Form IEPF-5 available 
on the website 
On behalf of the Board
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Chairman
New York 
April 23, 2025
This is to confirm that the Board has laid down a Code of Conduct for all Board members and Senior Management of 
Company. It is further confirmed that all Directors and Senior Management personnel of the Company have affirmed 
st
compliance with the Code of Conduct of the Company as at 31  March 2025, as envisaged in regulation 34(3) read with 
Schedule V of the Listing Regulations. 
Declaration on Code of Conduct
To 
The Members of Wendt (India) Limited 
On behalf of the Board
Ninad Gadgil
Executive Director & CEO
Hosur
April 23, 2025
129
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE  CERTIFICATE
The Members
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED
Flat No. 105, Cauvery Block,
National Games Housing Complex,
Koramangala,
Bangalore  - 560047.
We have examined documents, books, papers, minutes, forms and returns filed and other relevant records maintained 
by WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED (CIN:L85110KA1980PLC003913) [hereinafter referred to as “the Company”] having its 
Registered Office at Flat No. 105, Cauvery Block, National Games Housing Complex, Koramangala, Bangalore - 
560047, for the purpose of certifying compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance under Regulations 17 to 27 
and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and para C, D and E of Schedule V and Regulation 34(3) of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended 
st
(hereinafter called “SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015”) for the financial year ended 31  March, 2025. We have obtained 
all the information and explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of 
certification. 
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination 
was limited to the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the 
conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of 
the Company.
In our opinion and on the basis of our examination of the records produced, explanations and information furnished, we 
certify that the Company has complied regarding the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 
17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and para C, D and E of Schedule V and Regulation 34(3) of SEBI 
st
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 as amended for the financial year ended 31  March, 2025.
This Certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN & ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
CS SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN
FCS No. 12510
CP No. 17990
PR NO: 6279/2024
                                   UIN: S2017TN472300
     UDIN: F012510G000181547
Place: Chennai
rd
Date  : 23  April, 2025
130
Annual Report 2024-25
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
www.mca.gov.in
Pursuant to Regulation 34 (3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause (10) (i) of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended
The Members
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED
CIN: L85110KA1980PLC003913
Flat No. 105, Cauvery Block,
National Games Housing Complex
Koramangala, Bangalore - 560047
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 
WENDT (INDIA) LIMITED (CIN: L85110KA1980PLC003913) having its Registered Office at Flat No. 105, Cauvery 
Block, National Games Housing Complex, Koramangala, Bangalore - 560047 (hereinafter referred to as “The 
Company”) produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this certificate, in accordance with 
Regulation 34 (3) read with Schedule V Part-C Sub clause 10 (i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our knowledge and according to the verifications (including Director Identification 
Number (DIN) Status at the portal 
) and based on such examination as well as information and 
explanations furnished to us, which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of issue of 
this certificate and based on such verification as considered necessary, we hereby certify that none of the Directors as 
st
stated below on the Board of the Company as on 31  March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India / Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any such other statutory authority.
Ensuring the eligibility of, for the appointment/ continuity of, every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN & ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
CS SRINIDHI SRIDHARAN
FCS No. 12510
CP No. 17990
PR NO: 6279/2024
                                   UIN: S2017TN472300
     UDIN: F012510G000181602
Place: Chennai
rd
Date  : 23  April, 2025
S.No.
DIN
NAME OF THE DIRECTOR
DESIGNATION
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
00211127
07556717
07045802
00090089
01814413
08707884
Bhagya Chandra Rao
Hima Srinvias Cherla
Murugappa Venkatachalam
Muthiah
Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Mukund Gadgil
Non-Executive - Independent
Director - Chairman
Non-Executive - Independent
Director
Non-Executive- Non-Independent
Director
Non-Executive - Independent
Director
Non-Executive - Non Independent
Director
Executive Director
22/01/2021
24/04/2017
02/08/2022
24/07/2024
19/10/2023
06/05/2024
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
131
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
This Page has been 
Intentionally 
Left Blank
132
Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone
Financial
Statements
133
Annual Report 2024-25
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Wendt (India) Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
Opinion
1. 
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Wendt (India) Limited (“the Company”), which 
comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
(including Other Comprehensive Income), the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the Standalone 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including material 
accounting policy information and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the standalone financial 
statements”). 
2.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act") in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of 
the Company as at March 31, 2025, and total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other comprehensive 
loss), changes in equity and its cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for opinion
3.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the 
standalone financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key audit matters 
4.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
134
Annual Report 2024-25
135
Annual Report 2024-25
1. Appropriateness of revenue recognition on sale 
of goods
Refer Note 22 (Revenue from contract with customers) of 
the standalone financial statements.
The Company’s revenue principally comprises sale of 
goods. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised at a 
point in time when the control of the goods is transferred to 
the customers, which is on dispatch or delivery in 
accordance with the terms of sales contracts, and there 
are no unfulfilled obligations that could affect the 
customer’s acceptance of the products.
We have identified the recognition of revenue as a key 
audit matter as the Company has various customers with 
different terms of sales contracts which increase the risk 
of error in the timing of revenue recognition. Revenue 
recognition is determined to be an area involving 
significant risk and hence requiring significant auditor 
attention. The Company and its external stakeholders 
focus on revenue as a key performance indicator and 
therefore there could be a risk of material misstatement in 
so far as revenue recognition is concerned.
Our audit procedures relating to revenue recognition 
included the following:
a.
Understood and performed procedures to assess the 
design and test the operating effectiveness of 
management’s key internal financial controls in 
relation to revenue recognition.
b.
Assessed the appropriateness of the revenue 
recognition accounting policies of the Company, by 
evaluating compliance with the Ind AS 115 ‘Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers’.
c.
Tested the reconciliation of the amounts as per the 
sales register to the general ledger; and the 
reconciliation items on a sample basis.
d.
Selected samples of revenue transactions during the 
year and inspected underlying documents which 
inter-alia included invoices, customer contracts or 
orders and shipping documents or customers’ 
acceptance, as applicable, to determine the revenue 
recognised in accordance with the terms of sales 
contracts.
e.
Tested selected samples of revenue transactions 
recorded before and after the financial year end date 
to determine whether the revenue has been 
recognised in accordance with the terms of the sales 
contracts, in the appropriate financial period.
f.
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements in 
respect of revenue recognition.
Key Audit Matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
2. Appropriateness of capitalisation of an intangible 
asset acquired during the year
Refer Note 6 to the standalone financial statements. 
During the year, the Company incurred Rs. 3,508 Lakhs 
towards the acquisition of a Trademark from Wendt 
GmbH, an entity having significant influence over the 
Company, which has been capitalised as an intangible 
asset in the books of account.
The capitalisation of the cost of acquisition of the 
Trademark has been determined to be a key audit matter 
due to the judgement exercised by the management in 
assessing whether the recognition criteria under Ind AS 
38 “Intangible Assets” had been met and in determining 
the estimated useful life over which the Trademark is 
expected to generate future economic benefits including 
key assumptions such as discount rate and expected 
growth rate of revenue from operations considered in the 
future cash flow projections.
Key Audit Matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Our audit procedures relating to the accounting for 
Trademark as an intangible asset included the following:
•
Understood the design and evaluated the operating 
effectiveness of the internal financial controls around 
capitalisation of intangible assets. 
•
Evaluated the commercial substance of the 
transaction and management’s process of assessing 
the reasonableness of the transaction price, including 
obtaining the approvals from the Board of Directors, 
Audit Committee and Shareholders.
•
Perused the valuation report obtained by the 
management from an external professional services 
firm (“management’s expert”) and evaluated the 
independence, competence, capabilities and 
objectivity of the management’s expert.
•
Along with the involvement of auditors’ experts:
o
Assessed appropriateness of the valuation model 
used by the management’s expert; 
o
Evaluated reasonableness of the projections by 
assessing the key assumptions such as discount 
rate, growth rate, etc. used in the preparation of 
the projections and determining the estimated 
useful life of the Trademark; and
o
Tested the projected future cash flows and 
assessed whether those were consistent with our 
knowledge and understanding of the Company’s 
business.
•
Checked mathematical accuracy of the computations 
in the model.
•
Performed a sensitivity analysis in relation to key 
assumptions.
•
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
136
Annual Report 2024-25
137
Annual Report 2024-25
Other information
5.
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Report of the Directors, Management Discussion and Analysis Report, Report on Corporate 
Governance and Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, but does not include the standalone financial 
statements and our auditors’ report thereon. 
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form 
of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, 
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or 
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the standalone financial statements
6.
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial 
performance, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility 
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
7.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so. 
8.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements
9.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements. 
10.  As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•
•
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management. 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the 
Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
11. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of 
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our 
audit.
12. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
14. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure B” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
15. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: 
(a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from 
our examination of those books, except for the matters stated in paragraph 15(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
(c) The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by 
this Report are in agreement with the books of account. 
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act. 
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2025, taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025, from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act. 
(f) With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our 
remarks in paragraph 15(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 15(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
•
•
•
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
138
Annual Report 2024-25
(g) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”.  
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
i.
The Company does not have any pending litigations which would impact its financial position. 
ii.
The Company was not required to recognise a provision as at March 31, 2025 under the applicable law or Indian 
Accounting Standards, as it does not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts. The Company 
did not have any derivative contracts as at March 31, 2025.
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company during the year. 
iv. (a)  The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as  disclosed in the Notes to 
the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“ Intermediaries” ), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediaries shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“ Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries (Refer 
Note 41(vi)(a) to the standalone financial statements);
(b) The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the Notes to 
the standalone financial statements, no funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Parties (“ Ultimate Beneficiaries” ) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries (Refer Note 41(vi)(b) to the 
standalone financial statements); and
(c) Based on such audit procedures that we considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) 
and (b) contain any material misstatement.
v. The dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi. Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Company has used an accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and that has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software, except that the audit trail is not 
maintained at the application level for modification, if any, by certain users with specific access and for direct 
database changes. During the course of our audit, except for the aforesaid instances of audit trail not maintained 
at application and database level, where the question of our commenting on whether the audit trail feature being 
tampered with does not arise, we did not notice any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with. Further, the 
audit trail has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
16. The Company has provided for managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the 
provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number: 217038
UDIN: 25217038BMMLXI1516
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 23, 2025
139
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 15(g) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
Members of Wendt (India) Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for
the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements under clause (i) of sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Wendt (India) Limited (“the 
Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for 
the year ended on that date.
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2.
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the 
internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the 
Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to Company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ responsibility
3.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on 
Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements was established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
5.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the Company’s internal financial controls system with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements
6.
A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the standalone financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
140
Annual Report 2024-25
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of the standalone financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the standalone financial 
statements.
Inherent limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements
7.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies 
or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls system with reference to 
financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to financial statements were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number: 217038
UDIN: 25217038BMMLXI1516
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 23, 2025
141
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Annexure B to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 14 of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
Members of Wendt (India) Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and furnished by the Company, and the books of account and 
records examined by us during the course of our audit, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
i.  
(a) (A) The Company is maintaining proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation, 
of property, plant and equipment.
(B)  The Company is maintaining proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(b)
The property, plant and equipment of the Company have been physically verified by the management during the 
year and no material discrepancies have been noticed on such verification. In our opinion, the frequency of 
verification is reasonable.
(c)
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3A to the standalone financial 
statements, are held in the name of the Company.
(d)  The Company has chosen cost model for its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) and 
intangible assets. Consequently, the question of our commenting on whether the revaluation is based on the 
valuation by a Registered Valuer, or specifying the amount of change, if the change is 10% or more in the aggregate 
of the net carrying value of each class of property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible 
assets does not arise.
(e)  No proceedings have been initiated on (or) are pending against the Company for holding benami property under the 
Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules made thereunder, and therefore the question of our commenting on 
whether the Company has appropriately disclosed the details in the standalone financial statements does not arise.
ii. 
(a) The physical verification of inventory excluding stocks with third parties and goods-in-transit has been conducted at 
reasonable intervals by the management during the year and, in our opinion, the coverage and procedure of such 
verification by the management is appropriate. In respect of inventory lying with third parties, these have 
substantially been confirmed by them. The discrepancies noticed on physical verification of inventory as compared 
to book records were not 10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory. 
(b)  During the year, the Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rs. 5 crores (Rs. 500 lakhs), in 
aggregate, from banks on the basis of security of current assets. The Company has filed quarterly returns or 
statements with such banks, which are in agreement with the unaudited books of account. (Also, refer Note 17 to the 
standalone financial statements) 
iii.  (a) The Company has made investments in 6 mutual fund companies and has granted unsecured loans or advances in 
nature of loans to 269 employees of the Company during the year. The aggregate amount during the year, and 
balance outstanding at the balance sheet date with respect to such loans or advances are as per the table given 
below:
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
Amount (Rs. in lakhs)
Particulars
Aggregate amount granted during the year
- Loans or advances in the nature of loans to employees
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of the above case
      - Loans or advances in the nature of loans to employees
66
48
(Also, refer Note 8 to the standalone financial statements)
142
Annual Report 2024-25
(b)
In respect of the aforesaid investments and loans or advances in nature of the loans (interest free), the terms and 
conditions under which such loans or advances in nature of the loans were granted and investments were made are 
not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
(c) In respect of the loans or advances in nature of loans, the schedule of repayment of principal has been stipulated, 
and the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated. These loans or advances in the nature of loans to 
employees are interest free and hence, payment of interest is not applicable.
(d)  In respect of the loans or advances in nature of loans, there is no amount which is overdue for more than ninety days.
(e)  There were no loans or advances in nature of loans which have fallen due during the year and were renewed or 
extended. Further, no fresh loans were granted to same parties to settle the existing overdue loans or advances in 
nature of loan.
(f)  There were no loans or advances in nature of loans which were granted during the year, including to promoters or 
related parties that were repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.  
The Company has not granted secured loans or stood guarantee or provided security to any parties during the year. 
Accordingly, to this extent, the reporting under Clause 3(iii), (iii)(a), (iii)(b), (iii)(c), (iii)(d), (iii)(e) and (iii)(f) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
iv.
In our opinion, the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 186 of the Act, in respect of the investments 
made. The Company has not granted any loans or provided any guarantees or security to the parties covered under 
Section 185 of the Act. Accordingly, to this extent, the reporting under Clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
v.
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits  referred in Sections 73, 74, 
75 and 76 of the Act and the Rules framed there under.
vi.   Pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government of India, the Company is required to maintain cost records as 
specified under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect of its products. We have broadly reviewed the same and are of the 
opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. We have not, however, 
made a detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii. (a) In our opinion, the Company is regular in depositing the undisputed statutory dues, including goods and services tax, 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, sales tax, 
service tax and other statutory dues, as applicable, with the appropriate authorities. 
 (b)The particulars of statutory dues referred to in sub-clause (a) of Clause 3(vii) of the Order as at March 31, 2025 which 
have not been deposited on account of a dispute, are as follows:
viii. There are no transactions previously unrecorded in the books of account that have been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961. 
ix. (a) As the Company did not have any loans or other borrowings from any lender during the year, the reporting under 
Clause 3(ix)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company. Also, refer Note 30.3.3 to the standalone financial 
statements.
(b) On the basis of our audit procedures, we report that the Company has not been declared Wilful Defaulter by any bank 
or financial institution or government or any government authority.
(c) The Company has not obtained any term loans. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.  
Name of 
the statute
Income-tax 
Act,1961
Nature of dues
Income tax 
Amount
(Rs. in lakhs) 
4
Period to which 
the amount relates
2000 - 01
Forum where the
dispute is pending
High court of
Karnataka
Remarks,
if any
–
143
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
(d) According to the information and explanations given to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on an overall 
examination of the standalone financial statements of the Company, the Company has not raised funds on short-term 
basis. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(ix)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(e) On an overall examination of the standalone financial statements of the Company, we report that the Company has 
not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiary. Further, we 
report that the Company did not have any joint ventures or associate companies during the year, and accordingly, to 
this extent the reporting under Clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(f) According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the 
Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiary. Further, we report that 
the Company did not have any joint ventures or associate companies during the year, and accordingly, to this extent 
the reporting under Clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
  x. (a) The Company has not raised any money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) 
during the year. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
(b) The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partially or optionally 
convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xi. (a) During the course of our examination of the books and records of the Company, carried out in accordance with the 
generally accepted auditing practices in India, we have neither come across any instance of material fraud by the 
Company or on the Company, noticed or reported during the year, nor have we been informed of any such case by the 
management.  
(b) During the course of our examination of the books and records of the Company, carried out in accordance with the 
generally accepted auditing practices in India, a report under Section 143(12) of the Act, in Form ADT-4, as 
prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) was not required to be filed 
with the Central Government. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
 (c) During the course of our examination of the books and records of the Company carried out in accordance with the 
generally accepted auditing practices in India, and as represented to us by the management, no whistle-blower 
complaints have been received during the year by the Company. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xi)(c) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
xii.   As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the reporting under Clause 
3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
xiii. The Company has entered into transactions with related parties in compliance with the provisions of Sections 177 and 
188 of the Act. The details of related party transactions have  been disclosed in the standalone financial statements as 
required under  Indian Accounting Standard 24 “Related Party Disclosures” specified under Section 133 of the Act.
xiv. (a) In our opinion, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
 (b) The reports of the Internal Auditor for the period under audit have been considered by us. 
xv.   In our opinion, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected with 
him or her. Accordingly, the reporting on compliance with the provisions of Section 192 of the Act under Clause 3(xv) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi. (a) The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(b) The Company has not conducted non-banking financial or housing finance activities during the year. Accordingly, the 
reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
144
Annual Report 2024-25
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number: 217038
UDIN: 25217038BMMLXI1516
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 23, 2025
(c)  The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of 
India. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(d)  In our opinion, the Group (as defined in the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not 
have any CICs, which are part of the Group. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company. 
 xvii. The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the financial year or in the immediately preceding financial year.
xviii.There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly, the reporting under Clause 
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
xix.  On the basis of the financial ratios (as disclosed in Note 42 to the standalone financial statements), ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the 
standalone financial statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our 
examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe 
that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet 
date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our 
reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that 
all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date will get discharged by the Company as and 
when they fall due.
xx.  (a) In respect of other than ongoing projects, as at balance sheet date, the Company does not have any amount 
remaining unspent under Section 135(5) of the Act. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xx) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.  
 (b) The Company has not undertaken any ongoing projects in pursuance of its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xxi.  The reporting under Clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial Statements. 
Accordingly, no comment in respect of the said Clause has been included in this report.
145
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note
As at March 31,
2025
As at March 31,
2024
Particulars
A
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
(a) Property, plant and equipment 
3A
 6,254 
 5,659 
(b) Right-of-use assets
3B
 35 
 -   
(c) Capital work-in-progress
4
 980 
 211 
(d) Goodwill 
5
 10 
 10 
(e) Other intangible assets
6
 3,507 
 20 
(f) Financial assets
(i) Investments
7A
 277 
 277 
(ii) Other financial assets
8
 65 
 57 
(g) Other non-current assets 
9
 551 
 588 
(h) Income tax assets (net)
10A
 45 
 200 
Total non-current assets (1) 
 11,724 
 7,022 
2
Current assets 
(a) Inventories
11
 3,440 
 3,385 
(b) Financial assets 
(i) Investments
7B
 4,578 
 6,831 
(ii) Trade receivables
12
 6,589 
 5,140 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
13A
 267 
 389 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above
13B
 26 
 24 
(v) Other financial assets
8
 105 
 112 
(c) Other current assets
9
 731 
 465 
Total current assets (2) 
 15,736 
 16,346 
Total assets (1+2)
 27,460 
 23,368 
B
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity 
(a) Equity share capital
14
 200 
 200 
(b) Other equity - reserves and surplus
15
 21,775 
 19,001 
Total equity (1)
 21,975 
 19,201 
Liabilities
2
Non-current liabilities
(a) Deferred tax liabilities (net)
16
 182 
 154 
(b) Financial Liabilities - Lease liabilities
3B
 19 
 -   
Total non-current liabilities (2)
 
201 
 154 
3
Current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
17
 120 
 -   
(ii) Lease liabilities
3B
 19 
 -   
(iii) Trade payables
- total outstanding dues of micro and small  enterprises
18
 354 
 223 
- total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
18
 2,544 
 2,136 
  
and small enterprises
(iv) Other financial liabilities
19
 726 
 396 
(b) Provisions
20
 786 
 694 
(c) Income tax liabilities (net)
10B
 76 
 1 
(d) Other current liabilities
21
 659 
 563 
Total current liabilities (3)
 5,284 
 4,013 
Total liabilities (2+3)
 5,485 
 4,167 
Total equity and liabilities (1+2+3)
27,460 
 23,368 
The above Standalone Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Balance Sheet
referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Partner
Director
Executive Director & CEO
Membership Number : 217038
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Bengaluru
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
                             Date : April 23, 2025
146
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
INCOME
1
Revenue from operations
22
 21,487 
 20,859 
2
Other income
23
 846 
 686 
3
Total income (1 + 2)
 22,333 
 21,545 
4
EXPENSES
(a) Cost of materials consumed
 6,945 
 6,887 
(b) Purchases of stock-in-trade
 136 
 174 
(c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress 
24
 (12)
 (169)
and stock-in-trade
(d) Employee benefits expense
25
 3,977 
 3,637 
(e) Finance costs
26
 5 
 0 
(f) Depreciation and amortisation expense
27
 984 
 831 
(g) Other expenses
28
 5,329 
 4,952 
Total Expenses
 
17,364 
 16,312 
5
Profit before tax  (3-4)
 4,969 
 5,233 
6
Tax expense
(a) Current tax
29
 1,094 
 1,273 
(b) Deferred tax charge / (credit)
29
 46 
 10 
Total tax expense
 
1,140 
 1,283 
7
Profit for the year (5-6)
 3,829 
 3,950 
8
Other comprehensive income
A
Items that will not be reclassified  to profit or loss
(i)
Remeasurements of the defined benefit obligation
33
 (73)
 (109)
(ii) Income tax relating to the above
 18 
 27 
B
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
 -   
 -   
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
 (55)
 (82)
9
Total comprehensive income for the year (7+8)
 3,774 
 3,868 
10 Earnings per equity share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs.10 each):
35
(1) Basic
 
 
191.46 
 197.49 
(2) Diluted
 
191.46 
 197.49 
The above Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
referred to in our report of even date.
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Particulars
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Partner
Director
Executive Director & CEO
Membership Number : 217038
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Bengaluru
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
                             Date : April 23, 2025
147
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
General Reserve
Retained Earnings
Balance as at April 1, 2023
6,877
                   
 
9,856
                   
                 
Profit for the year
-
                      
 
3,950
                   
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of  income tax
-
                      
 
(82)
                      
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
                      
 
3,868
                   
Payment of final dividend for the preceding financial year
-
                      
 
(1,000)
                 
Payment of interim dividend for the current year
-
                      
 
(600)                    
Transfer to General reserve
395
                      
 
(395)                    
Balance as at March 31, 2024
7,272
                   
 
11,729                 
Profit for the year
-
                      
 
3,829                   
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of income tax
-
                      
 
(55)                      
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
                      
 
3,774                   
Payment of final dividend for the preceding financial year
-
(400)
Payment of interim dividend for the current year
-
(600)
Transfer to General reserve
383
(383)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
7,655
14,120
16,733 
3,950
                   
(82)
                     
 
3,868
                   
(1,000)
                 
(600)                    
-                     
19,001                 
 
3,829                   
(55)                     
3,774                   
(400)
(600)
-
21,775
Particulars
Reserves and surplus
Total
(A) Equity Share Capital
Balance as at April 1, 2023
200
Add: Changes in equity share capital during the current year
-
Balance as at March 31, 2025
200
Balance as at March 31, 2024
200
Add: Changes in equity share capital during the current year
                          -   
                      
(B) Other Equity
                      
 
                    
The above Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
referred to in our report of even date.
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Partner
Director
Executive Director & CEO
Membership Number : 217038
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Bengaluru
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
                             Date : April 23, 2025
148
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
MARCH 31,2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax
4,969 
 5,233 
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 984 
 831 
Loss allowance for trade receivables
 25 
 15 
Finance costs
 
5 
 -   
Interest income
 
(50)
 (30)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment/scrapped
 (4)
 (17)
Net gain on sale of current investments 
 (613)
 (145)
Net fair value gain on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
 (25)
 (346)
Unrealised exchange loss / (gain)
 (8)
 5 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 5,283 
 5,546 
Changes in working capital :
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
 (55)
 (230)
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables
 (1,469)
 (1,367)
(Increase)/Decrease in other bank balances
 (2)
 3 
(Increase)/Decrease in other current financial assets
 7 
 (39)
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-current financial assets
 (8)
 (6)
(Increase)/Decrease in other current assets
 (265)
 (99)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables
 541 
 122 
Increase/(Decrease) in other current financial liabilities
 4 
 (80)
Increase/(Decrease) in current provisions
 18 
 69 
Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities
 96 
 210 
Cash flows generated from operating activities
 4,150 
 4,129 
Income taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (864)
 (1,458)
Net cash generated from operating activities
(A)
 3,286 
 2,671 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
 
(1,909)
 (1,601)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (3,556)
 (13)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment/scrapped
 16 
 39 
Purchase of current investments
 (2,373)
 (3,181)
Sale of current investments
 5,264 
 3,403 
Interest received
 
50 
 39 
Inter corporate deposit matured/(repaid)
 -   
 500 
Net cash used in investing activities
(B)
 (2,508)
 (814)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from current borrowings
 120 
 -   
Principal payment of lease liabilities
 (15)
 -   
Interest payment of lease liabilities
 (5)
 -   
Interest paid
 
-   
 (0)
Dividend paid 
 
(1,000)
 (1,600)
Net cash used in financing activities
(c)
 (900)
 (1,600)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(A+B+C)
 (122)
 257 
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year
D
 389 
 132 
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year
(A+B+C+D)
 267 
 389 
Reconciliation of Cash and cash equivalents as per the Standalone statement of cash flows
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of the following:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Cash and cash equivalents :
     (a) Balances with banks
          - in current accounts
76 
 389 
     (b) Cheques on hand
 190 
 -   
     (c) Cash on hand
 
1 
 0 
Balance as per Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
 267 
 389 
The above Standalone Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Partner
Director
Executive Director & CEO
Membership Number : 217038
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Bengaluru
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
                             Date : April 23, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
149
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statement showing the applicable Key Accounting Standards (Ind AS) with related Material accounting Policy and Notes 
references as per Standalone financial statements
2
Inventories
11
43(i)
7
Statement of Cash flows
13A
43(j)
8
Material accounting Policies
Under respective notes
8
Summary of other accounting Policies
43
8
Changes in accounting Estimates and Errors
2.1 & 2.2
12
Income taxes
10A, 10B & 29
43(e)
16
Property, plant and equipment
3, 4 & 27
43(f)
19
Employee benefits
25 & 33
43(d)
24
Related party disclosures
34
33
Earnings per share
35
36
Impairment of assets
3, 4 & 6
43(h)
37
Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets
20 & 36
43(k)
38
Intangible assets
6 & 27
43(g)
107
Financial instruments - Disclosures
8, 12, 17, 18, 19, 23 & 30
43(l) & 43(m)
108
Operating segments
31
113
Fair value measurement
30
115
Revenue from contracts with Customers
21, 22 & 31
116
Leases
3B & 32
Ind AS
No.
Description
Note & Material Accounting
Policy Reference
Other Accounting
 Policies Reference
1. COMPANY OVERVIEW
2.1 Basis of preparation and presentation
(i) Compliance with Ind AS
Wendt (India) Limited  was incorporated on August 
21, 1980 under the provisions of the erstwhile 
The financial statements of the Company have 
Companies Act,1956, and is a joint venture  between 
been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Wendt GmbH, Germany and Carborundum Universal 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under 
Limited, India. The Company is into manufacturing, 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) 
selling and servicing of Super Abrasives, High 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
precision Grinding, Honing, Special Purpose 
Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions of the 
Machines and High Precision components. The 
Act.
Company's registered office is in Bangalore and 
These standalone financial statements have been 
factory is situated in Hosur, Tamilnadu. The Company 
presented in Indian Rupees (Rs.) lakhs except for 
Identification Number (CIN) of the Company is 
share and per share data and unless otherwise 
L85110KA1980PLC003913.
stated.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
150
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
2.2 Critical estimates and judgements
(ii)Historical cost convention 
The financial statements have been prepared on 
The preparation of these financial statements 
the historical cost basis, except for certain 
requires the use of accounting estimates 
financial instruments which are measured at fair 
which, by definition, which seldom equals the 
values at the end of each reporting period. 
actual results. Management also needs to 
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value 
exercise judgement in applying the Company's 
of the consideration given in exchange for goods 
accounting policies. This note provides an 
and services. Fair value is the price that would be 
overview of the areas that involved higher 
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
degree of judgement or complexity, and of 
liability in an orderly transaction between market 
items which are more likely to be materially 
participants at the measurement date.
adjusted due to estimates and assumptions 
turning out to be different than those originally 
(iii) Operating cycle
assessed. Detailed information about each of 
Based on the nature of products / activities of the 
these estimates and judgements is included in t h e  
Company and the normal time between 
relevant notes together with information about the 
acquisition of assets and their realization in cash 
basis of calculation for each affected line item in the 
or cash equivalents, the Company has 
financial statements.
determined its operating cycle as 12 months for 
the purpose of current and non-current 
The areas involving critical estimates or  judgements 
classification of its assets and liabilities.
are: 
(iv) New and amended standards adopted by     
(i) Estimation of defined benefit obligation - refer 
the Company
Note 33
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had vide 
(ii) Estimation of Useful life for amortization of Trade 
notification dated September 9, 2024 and 
mark - refer Note 6
September 28, 2024 notified the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Second 
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. 
Amendment Rules, 2024 and Companies (Indian 
They are based on historical experience and other 
Accounting Standards) Third Amendment Rules, 
factors, including expectations of future events that 
2024, respectively, which amended/ notified 
may have a financial impact on the Company and that 
certain accounting standards (see below), and are 
are believed to be reasonable under the 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on 
circumstances.
or after April 1, 2024:
(i) Lease liability in Sale and Leaseback – 
Amendments to Ind AS 116; and
(ii) Insurance contracts - Ind AS 117
These amendments did not have any material 
impact on the amounts recognised in prior periods 
and are not expected to significantly affect  the 
current or future periods. 
151
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 3A - Property, plant and equipment 
Accounting Policy
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost. All other items of Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less 
accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets (other than freehold land and capital 
work-in-progress), net of their residual values over their useful lives. The estimated useful lives, residual value and 
depreciation method are reviewed  at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted 
for on a prospective basis.
Depreciation
Buildings - Freehold
      (i)   Factory Building                                                  
30 years
      (ii)  Building (Other than factory building)                   
60 years
Plant and Machinery
      (i)   Single Shift                                                       
15 years
      (ii)   Double Shift                                                     
10 years
      (iii)  Triple Shift                                                        
7.5 years
Office Equipment
      (I)   Computers and Data Processing equipment            
 3 years
      (ii)   Servers and Networks                                         
6 years
      (iii)  Others                                                              
5 years
Furniture and fittings                                                     
10 years
Motor Vehicles                                                               
8 years
Estimated useful lives of the property, plant and equipment as considered by the Company, which
are in line with those specified under Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, are as follows:-
Refer Notes 43(f) and 43(h) on other accounting policies
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
152
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Particulars
Land - 
Freehold
Buildings - 
Freehold
Plant and 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
and 
Fittings
Motor 
Vehicles 
Total
I. Gross Block
Balance as at April 1, 2023
4
             
 
2,290
            
 
11,343
      
 
972
           
 
304
       
 
126
       
 
15,039
Additions
             -                     82 
            898 
              34 
37
         
 
16
        
1,067
Disposals
             -                     (6)
           (184)
               (6)
(10)
        
 
(28)
       
 
(234)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
               4 
             2,366 
       12,057 
          1,000 
         331 
        114 
   15,872 
Balance as at April 1, 2024
4
             
 
2,366
            
 
12,057
      
 
1,000
        
 
331
       
 
114
       
 
15,872
Additions
             -                   125 
         1,164 
            169 
           14 
          30 
1,502
Disposals
             -   
                  -               (63)
             (96)
         (11)
        (22)
(192)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
4
             
 
2,491
            
 
13,158      
 
1,073        
 
334
       
 122
       
 
17,182
II.  Accumulated depreciation 
Balance as at April 1, 2023
-
          
 
780
               
 
7,576
        
 
937
            
256
       
 
58
        
9,607
Depreciation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
-
          
 
77
                
 
685
           
 
27
             
 
16
         
 
14
        
819
Eliminated on disposal of assets
-
          
 
(3)
                 
 
(179)
         
 
(6)
             
 
(10)
        
 
(15)
       
 
(213)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
          
 
854
               
 
8,082
        
 
958
            
262
       
 
57
        
10,213
Balance as at April 1, 2024
-
          
 
854
               
 
8,082
        
 
958
            
262
       
 
57
        
10,213
Depreciation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
-
          
 
78
                
 
752
           
 
38
             
 
14
         
 
14
        
896
Eliminated on disposal of assets
-
          
 
-
               
 
(63)
           
 
(96)
             
(11)
        
 
(11)
       
 
(181)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
-
932
8,771
900
265
60
10,928
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2024
4
1,512
3,975
42
69
57
5,659
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2025
4
1,559
4,387
173
69
62
6,254
Note : Refer to Note 36.1 (a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
153
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
                           
 
                        
 
                         
 
Note
 Year ended
 Year ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets
27
19
-
Interest expense (included in finance costs)
26
5
-
Expense relating to short-term leases 
(included in Rent - other expenses)
28
1
5
Particulars
(vi) The total cash outflow relating to leases for the year was Rs. 21 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Rs.Nil).
(vii) Extension and Termination options :
Extension options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be 
extended (or not terminated).
(iv)  Additions to the right-of-use assets during the year were Rs. 54 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Rs.Nil).
(v) Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2024
-
                      
Additions
54
                       
Termination
-
                      
Depreciation
19
Balance as at March 31, 2025
35
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2024
-
                      
Additions
54
                       
Termination
-
                      
Finance costs
5
                         
Payment of lease liabilities
(21)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
38
                        
 
(iii) Lease Liabilities
      
Movement of lease liabilities
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 3B: Leases (As Lessee)
Accounting Policy
The Company has taken office premises on 3 years lease period.  The lease payments are discounted using the the Company's 
incremental borrowing rate, being the rate that the Company would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of 
similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions.
Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available for use 
by the Company.
Right-of-use asset is depreciated over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
i) Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Right-of-use assets
    Building
 35 
 -   
 
35 
 -   
Lease Liabilities
Non-Current
19 
 -   
Current
 19 
-
 38 
 -   
(ii) Right-of-Use Assets
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
154
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 4: Capital work-in-progress (CWIP)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance as at beginning of the year
                         211 
                          176 
Addition during the year
                      2,271 
                       1,102 
Capitalised during the year
                    (1,502)
                      (1,067)
Balance as at end of the year 
                         980 
                          211 
Note: Capital work-in-progress represents expenditure incurred towards Property, plant and equipment.
As at March 31, 2025
Total
Less than 1 Year
1 - 2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 3 
Years
Projects in progress
875
35
70                -   
980
Projects temporarily Suspended
-
                         
-
                          
-
                    
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
Total
Less than 1 Year
1 - 2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 3 
Years
Projects in progress
173
38
0
0
211
Projects temporarily Suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Amount in CWIP for the period of
CWIP
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
There are no significant projects whose completion is over due or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as at end of the year or 
previous year.
Note  5 - Goodwill
 A reconciliation of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning and end of the reporting period. 
 Refer Note 43(b) on other accounting policies. 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Cost
Balance as at beginning of year
10
                           
10
Additions
-
                          
-
Disposals
-
                          
-
Balance as at end of year
10
                           
10
Accumulated impairment
Balance as at beginning of year
-
-
Impairment losses recognised during the year
-
-
Balance as at end of year
-
-
Net carrying value
10
10
(Rs. in Lakhs)
155
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 6 - Other intangible assets
Accounting Policy
Amortisation
Useful lives of intangible assets
Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives of the intangible assets are as follows:-
Refer Notes 43(g) and 43(h) on other accounting policies.
Technical Knowhow                                                              
5 years
Computer Software                                                            
  5 years
Brands and Trademarks                                                 
5/10 years
Patents                                                                            
5 years
Particulars
Technical 
Knowhow
Computer 
Software
Brands and
Trademarks
Patents
Total
I. Gross Block
Balance as at April 1, 2023
202
            
 
371
           
 
81
           
 
50
            
 
704
Additions
-
            
 
13
             
 
-
          
 
-
           
 
13
Disposals
-
            
 
-
            
 
-
          
 
-
           
 
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
202
            
 
384
           
 
81
           
 
50
            
717
Balance as at April 1, 2024
202
            
 
384
           
 
81
           
 
50
            
 
717
Additions  (refer note 6.1 below)
-
            
 
48
             
 
3,508
       
 
-
           
 
3,556
Disposals
-
            
 
-
            
 
-
          
 
-           
 
-
Balance as at March 31, 2025
202
            
 
432
           
 
3,589
       
 
50            
 
4,273
II.  Accumulated amortisation
Balance as at April 1, 2023
202
            
 
352
           
 
81
           
 
50
            
 
685
Amortisation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
-
            
 
12
             
 
-
          
 
-
           
 
12
Eliminated on disposal of assets
-
            
 
-
            
 
-
          
 
-
           
 
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
202
            
 
364
           
 
81
           
 
50
            
 
697
Balance as at April 1, 2024
202
            
 
364
           
 
81
           
 
50
            
 
697
Amortisation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
-
            
 
11
             
 
58
           
 
-
           
 
69
Eliminated on disposal of assets
-
            
 
-
            
 
-
          
 
-
           
 
-
Balance as at March 31, 2025
202
375
139
50
766
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2024
-
20
-
-
20
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2025
-
57
3,450
-
3,507
Note 6.1
Pursuant to a Trademark assignment agreement with Wendt GmbH, a related party of the Company (investor with significant 
influence), effective Feb 26, 2025 (the date of receipt of shareholders' approval for the transaction), the Company purchased 
the worldwide right, title and interest in a Trademark owned by/ registered in the name Wendt GmbH. The Company paid a 
consideration of Rs. 3,508 lakhs to acquire the above Trademark. 
The Company has estimated the useful life of the Trademark to be 10 years from the effective date based on factors such as 
useful life prevailing in similar industry, period of usage and benchmarking with similar transactions. Accordingly, the above 
trademark will be amortised on a straight line basis over a period of 10 years.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
156
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
 Note 7 - Investments 
Accounting Policy
 Investment in subsidiary is carried at cost in accordance with Ind AS 27, less impairment.
b) Investment in Mutual funds [Categorised as Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)]
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement 
recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporate any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is 
included under 'Other income'. Dividend on financial asset at FVTPL is recognised when the Company's right to receive the dividends is 
established, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the entity, the dividend does not represent a recovery 
of part of cost of the investment and the amount can be measured reliably.
Refer Note 43(m) on other accounting policies 
a) 
Investment in equity instruments
Units (Nos)
Amount
Units (Nos)
Amount
Units (Nos)
Amount
Units (Nos)
Amount
A
Investment in equity instruments - Measured at cost
Investments in a Subsidiary (Unquoted)
         i) Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
-
              
-
               
     10,299,993          277 
-
              
-
     10,299,993          277 
             Equity shares of face value Baht 10/-  each, partly paid-up 
            @ 2.5 Baht per share (Refer Note 36.1(b))
Total Investment carried at cost
-
               
         277 
-
         277 
B
 Designated as Fair Value Through Profit and Loss
Investments in Mutual Funds (Unquoted)
1
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
2,840,407
    
829
              
-
                
-
          
2,840,407
    
765
2
Aditya Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Growth -Regular Plan
870,071
       
405
              
-
                
-
 
870,071
       
374
-
-
3
Aditya Birla Sun Life Low Duration Fund -Growth Regular Plan
67,209
        
433               
-
                
-
 
67,209
         
404
-
-
4
Aditya Birla Sun Life Floating Rate Fund - Growth Regular Plan
-
              
-
               
-
                
-
 
99,117
         
313
-
-
5
Nippon India Floating Rate Fund - Growth Plan - Growth Option
957,475
       
423               
-
                
-
 
1,537,180
    
626
-
-
6
TATA Short Term Bond Fund Regular Plan - Growth
295,555
       
139
              
-
                
-
 
295,555
       
129
-
-
7
TATA Short Term Bond Fund Direct Plan - Growth
186,618
       
97
                
-
                
-
 
186,618
       
89
-
-
8
Baroda BNP paribas Short Duration Fund - Regular Growth
3,688,473
    
1,053
            
-
                
-
 
5,241,326
    
1,387
-
-
9
SBI Magnum Low Duration Fund - Regular Growth
6,109
          
209
              
-
                
-
 
6,109
           
195
-
-
10
Inveso India Low Duration Fund - Regular-Growth
8,114
          
301
              
-
                
-
 
8,114
           
280
-
-
11
HDFC Ultra Short Term Fund - Regular Growth
-
              
-
               
-
                
-
 
2,103,110
    
291
-
-
12
HDFC Low Duration Fund - Regular Plan Growth
492,881
       
279
              
-
                
-
 
492,881
       
259
-
-
13
Bandhan Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Regular Plan - Growth
678,602
       
163
              
-
                
-
678,602
       
152
-
-
14
Tata Money Market Fund Regular Plan-Growth
-
-
-
                
-
1,223
           
53
-
-
15
Baroda BNP paribas ultra short duration fund-direct plan Growth
-
-
7,154
           
102
16
Aditya Birla SunLife 
 Bond Fund-Growth - Regular Plan
Corporate
-
-
251,140
255
-
-
17
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund - Growth Plan
421,652
247
-
-
421,652
228
-
-
18
ABSL CRISIL IBX AAA-Mar 2024 IndexFund Regular Growth
-
-
-
-
7,657,284
832
-
-
19
HDFC Corporate bond Fund - Regular Plan Growth
-
-
-
-
329,149
97
Total Investments carried at FVTPL [B]
            4,578 
     6,831 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS CARRYING VALUE (A) + (B)
            4,578 
         277 
     6,831 
         277 
Other disclosures
Aggregate cost of unquoted investments
3,656
         277 
     5,934 
         277 
Aggregate market value of unquoted investments
4,578
     6,831 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
-
-
-
-
 Current 
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Non-current 
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
Sl.
No.
Particulars
(Rs. in Lakhs)
157
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Current
Non- current
Current
Non- current
(a) Security deposits
25
               
 
65            
36
           
 
57                    
(b) Employee advances (refer Note below)
48
               
 
-           
 
38
           
 
-                    
(c) Non-trade receivables from 
      - Related Party  (refer Note 34)
32
               
 
-            
37
           
 
-                    
      - Others
-
              
 
-            
1
             
 
-                    
Total
               105 
              65 
           112 
                       57 
 Particulars 
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 
 
 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 8 - Other financial assets
Notes:
(a) Employee advances represents advances in the 
nature of loans to employees amounting to:
48 
 
    -   
 
       38 
 -   
With respect to the above advances:
(i) The Company has granted advances in the nature of loans to 269 employees aggregating to Rs. 66 lakhs during the year
 
(March 31, 2024 : 224 employees aggregating to Rs. 61 lakhs).
(ii) The terms and conditions under which such advances in the nature of loans were granted are not prejudicial to the Company’s 
interest.
(iii) The schedule of repayment of principal has been stipulated and the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated. These 
advances in the nature of loans to employees are interest free and hence, payment of interest is not applicable.
(iv) There is no amount which is overdue for more than ninety days.
(v) There were no advances in nature of loans which fell due during the year and were renewed/extended. Further, no fresh loans were 
granted to same parties to settle the existing overdue advances in nature of loan.
(b) There were no loans/advances in nature of loans which were granted during the year to promoters/related parties.
 Note 9 - Other assets 
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Current
Non-current
Current
Non-current
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Particulars 
Notes:
(i) Capital advances include Rs. NIL (March 31, 2024: Rs. 19 lakhs) paid to a related party. (Refer Note 34)
(ii) Capital advances include an amount of Rs.522 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Rs.522 lakhs) paid to Karnataka Industrial Area Development 
Board (KIADB) for acquistion of land towards the Company's expansion plan. The Company has obtained a letter of allotment and also 
the possession of land. The Company is in the process of obtaining clearances that will enable to execute a lease-cum sale agreement 
for the above parcel of land. Pending execution of the lease-cum sale agreement (that is expected to be converted into a sale deed on 
fulfillment of conditions thereto), the Company has classified the said amount as a capital advance.
(iii) Contract assets represent amount to be received from customers after installation and commissioning.
(iv) Contract assets include Rs. Nil (March 31,2024: Rs. 14 lakhs) due from a related party.
 Unsecured, considered good 
 
(a) Advances to suppliers 
 333 
 -   
 90 
 -   
(b) Balances with government authorities
     (other than income taxes) 
 
(i) Duties refundable 
 0 
 -   
0
 -   
(ii) GST credit receivable 
 22 
 -   
 32 
 -   
 
(c) Prepayments 
 305 
 -   
 208 
 -   
 
(d) Capital advances (refer Notes (i) & (ii) below) 
 -   
 551 
 -   
 588 
(e) Export incentive receivable 
 13 
 -   
 19 
 -   
 
(f) Contract assets (refer Notes (iii) , (iv) and (v)  below) 
 39 
 -   
 108 
 -   
 
(g) Other advances 
 19 
 -   
 8 
 -   
 Total  
731 
 551 
 465 
 588 
158
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 10 - Income tax assets and liabilities
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
A. Income tax assets - non-current
Advance income tax and tax deducted at source (net)
45 
200
                                   
Total
45 
200
                                   
B. Income tax liabilities - current
Provision for income tax (net)
76 
1
                                      
Total
76
1
Particulars
Refer Note 43(e) on other accounting policies.
                            
 
                                      
Note 11 - Inventories
Accounting Policy
Inventories are valued at lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is computed on weighted average basis.
Refer Note 43(i) on other accounting policies
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
(a) Raw materials
1,895
                       
 
1,856
                                
(b) Work-in-progress
772
                          
 
723
                                   
(c) Finished goods
401
                          
 
436
                                   
(d)
79
                            
 
81
                                    
(e) Stores and spares
293
                          
 
289
                                   
3,440
                       
 
3,385
                                
Included above, goods-in-transit:
(i)
Raw materials
116
                          
 
75
                                    
(ii) Stock-in-trade
48
 
-
                                   
Total goods-in-transit
164
                          
 
75
                                    
Stock-in-trade
Particulars
Total
Notes:
(a) Provision for inventories, which have either become wholly or partially obsolete (Provision for Obsolescence) or where their 
selling prices have declined below cost (Provision for net realizable value) charged during the year to the Statement of Profit and 
Loss amounted to Rs.76 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Rs. 81 lakhs).
(b) Refer Note 17 for information on assets pledged as security against the bank facility (including borrowings) of the Company. 
Particulars
Balance as at beginning of the year
Obligation fulfilled during the year
Obligation to be fulfilled
Balance as at end of the year 
39
108
-
                                        
108
                                  (108)
-
                                        
108
39
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2025
(v) Movement of contract assets :
159
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 12 - Trade receivables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Accounting  Policy
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business and 
reflects the Company’s unconditional right to consideration (that is, payment is due only on the passage of time). Trade receivables 
are recognised initially at the transaction price as they do not contain significant financing components. The Company holds the 
trade receivables with the objective of collecting the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method, less loss allowance.
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Company measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to life time expected credit 
losses. Further, for the purposes of measuring lifetime expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables, the Company has used a 
practical expedient as permitted under Ind AS 109. This expected credit loss allowance is computed based on a provision matrix 
which takes into account historical credit loss experience and adjusted for forward-looking information.
Trade receivables from contract with customers
(a) Related parties (refer Note 34)
333 
 267 
(b) Others
 6,361 
 4,953 
 6,694 
 5,220 
Less: Expected credit loss allowance
 105 
 80 
Total
 6,589 
 5,140
This Page has been 
Intentionally 
Left Blank
160
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at March 31, 2025
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1 - 2 
years
2 - 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Not Due
Unsecured trade receivables
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
As at March 31, 2024
(i) Undisputed trade receivables - considered good
 4,253 
 2,212 
 171 
 56 
 1 
 1 
 6,694 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables - Credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iv) Disputed trade receivables - considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(vi) Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total  
4,253 
 2,212 
 171 
 56 
 1 
 1 
 6,694
Refer Note 30.3.2 for disclosure relating to credit risk.
Note: There are no unbilled revenues as on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1 - 2 
years
2 - 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Not Due
Unsecured trade receivables
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
(I) Undisputed trade receivables - considered good
 3,459 
 1,582 
 112 
 60 
 7 
 -   
 5,220 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables - Credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iv) Disputed trade receivables - Considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(vi) Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total  
3,459 
 1,582 
 112 
 60 
 7 
 -   
 5,220 
161
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Refer note 43(j) on other accounting policies.
As at March 31, 
2025
As at March 31, 
2024
(a) Balances with banks in current accounts (refer Note below)
76
                           
389
                      
(b) Cheques on hand
190
                         
-                    
(c) Cash on hand
1
                             
0
                             
Total 
267
389
Particulars
                             
                             
Note: 
Includes bank balances maintained in Exchange Earners' Foreign Currency (EEFC) account which is below rounding off norms
adopted by the Company.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note  13A - Cash and cash equivalents
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at March 31, 
2025
As at March 31, 
2024
0
                             
 
0
                           
26
                           
 
24
                           
26
24
Particulars
(a)
(b) Earmarked balances in dividend accounts
Total 
Deposits with maturity of more than 3 months and less than 1 year
Note 13B - Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Net debt reconciliation:
2025
2024
Cash and cash equivalents
267
                         
389
                         
Short-term borrowings
(120)
                        
0                      
Lease liabilties
(38)
                          
-
                          
Net Cash/ (Net debt)
109
389
                           
 
                           
As at March 31, 
As at March 31, 
Particulars
                         
 Cash and cash 
equivalents 
 Short-term 
borrowings 
 Lease liabilities 
 Cash and cash 
equivalents/ Net 
(debt) 
                                      
 
                          
 
                          
Particulars
Net Cash/(Net debt) as at April 1, 2023
 132 
 -   
 -   
 132 
Cash flows (net)
 257 
 -   
 -   
 257 
Repayments
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Interest expense
 -   
 0 
 -   
 (0)
Interest paid
 -   
 (0)
 -   
 0 
Net Cash/(Net debt) as at March 31, 2024
 389 
 0   
 -   
 389 
Cash flows (net)
 (122)
 -   
 -   
 (122)
New borrowings / New Lease availed
 -   
 (120)
 (54)
 (174)
Repayments
 -   
 -   
 16 
 16 
Interest expense
 -   
 -   
 (5)
 (5)
Interest paid
 -   
 -   
 5 
 5 
Net Cash/(Net debt) as at March 31, 2025
 267 
 (120)
 (38)
 109
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
162
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 14 - Equity Share Capital
(d) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares with voting rights (one vote per share). The dividends proposed by the Board 
of directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend 
which is approved by the Board of Directors. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders are entitled to 
receive only the residual assets of the Company. The distribution of dividend is in the proportion to the number of equity shares 
held by the shareholders.
(e) There are no instances of bonus shares issued, shares issued for consideration other than cash and shares bought back during 
the period of 5 years immediately preceding the Balance Sheet date. Further, there are no contracts or commitments for the 
sale of shares or disinvestment and there are no shares reserved for issue under options.
Note: 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Promoters informed the Company of their execution of an agreement that amends the 
terms of the Shareholders agreement, specifically regarding their shareholding in the Company. The execution of the agreement is 
to facilitate a potential divestiture by Wendt GmbH of up to its entire ownership interest in the Company through one or more 
transactions in the secondary market.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Authorised: 
3,000,000 (March 31, 2024: 3,000,000) Equity 
shares of Rs. 10/-  each with voting rights
Issued, subscribed and fully paid:
2,000,000 (March 31, 2024: 2,000,000) Equity 
shares of Rs. 10/-  each with voting rights
Total
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
300
                                       
300
200
                                       
200
200
200
(a) Reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Number of 
shares
Amount              
(Rs. in lakhs)
Number of 
shares
Amount                         
(Rs. in lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
20,00,000
    
200
                
 
20,00,000
     
200
                      
Add: Movements during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
20,00,000
200
20,00,000
200
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
(b) Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares in the Company:
Number of 
shares
%
Number of 
shares
%
Equity shares :
       Wendt GmbH, Germany
7,50,000
      
37.50
7,50,000      
37.50
       Carborundum Universal Limited, India
7,50,000
      
37.50
7,50,000
      
37.50
       SBI Mutual Fund
1,27,425
6.37
1,28,544
6.43
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
(c)  Details of shares held by Promoters at the end of the year:
Number of 
shares
%
% Change 
during the 
year
Number of 
shares
%
% Change 
during the 
year
Equity shares :
       Wendt GmbH, Germany
7,50,000
      
37.50
NIL
7,50,000
37.50
NIL
       Carborundum Universal Limited, India
7,50,000
37.50
NIL
7,50,000
37.50
NIL
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
163
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 15 - Other equity
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
                                   
 
21,775
15.2 Retained earnings
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Total
Particulars
The general reserve is a free reserve, retained from Company's profits and can be utilised upon fulfilling certain conditions in
accordance with Companies Act, if any. 
Retained earnings comprise of the company's undistributed earnings after taxes.
Particulars
15.1 General Reserve
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
7,272
383
                                        
 
6,877
395
                                     
7,655
                                     
 
7,272
                                  
Particulars
Transfer from retained earnings
Balance at the beginning of the year
Balance as at the end of the year
19,001
                                   
General reserve
Retained earnings
7,655
14,120
7,272
11,729
15.3 Distributions made and proposed
The amount of dividend per share distributed to equity shareholders during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 was 
Rs. 50 and Rs. 80 respectively.
Dividend on equity shares declared and paid
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 25, 2024 had recommended a final dividend of 200% (Rs. 20/- per equity share of 
face value Rs.10/- each). The proposal was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on July 22, 2024, this has 
resulted in a cash outflow of Rs. 400 lakhs. Also, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 22, 2025 had declared an 
interim dividend of 300% (Rs. 30/- per equity share of face value of Rs. 10/- each), this has resulted in a cash outflow of Rs. 600 lakhs.
Proposed dividend on equity shares
Further, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 23, 2025 have recommended a final dividend of  200% (Rs.20/- per equity 
share of face value of Rs.10/- each) which is subject to approval of shareholders.
Balance at the beginning of the year
11,729 
 9,856 
Profit for the year
3,829 
 3,950 
Other comprehensive income arising from remeasurement of 
 (55)
 (82)
defined benefit obligation, net of tax
Payment of final dividend for the preceding financial year
 (400)
 (1,000)
Payment of interim dividend for the current year
 (600)
 (600)
Transfer to general reserve
 (383)
 (395)
Balance as at the end of the year
 14,120 
 11,729 
164
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 16 - Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Refer Note 43(e)(ii) on other accounting policies
341
56
-
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
177
93
-
Net gain on fair valuation of mutual funds
164
(37)
-
Right-of-use Assets
-
0
-
270
127
0
                      
 
 
                          
397
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax assets
Provision for employee benefits
(167)
 
(3)
                            
 
(18)
                          
(188)
Loss allowance on trade receivables
(20)
 
(6)
                            
 
-
                          
(26)
Lease liabilities
-
 
(1)
                            
 
-
                          
 
(1)
(187)
 
(10)
                          
 
(18)
                          
 
(215)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
154
46
                           
 
(18)                          
 
182
326
15
-
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
187
(10)
-
Net gain on fair valuation of mutual funds
139
25
-
177
164
                      
 
 
                          
341
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax assets
Provision for employee benefits
(125)
 
(15)
                            
 
(27)
                          
(167)
Loss allowance on trade receivables
(17)
 
(3)
                            
 
-
                          
(20)
Others
(12)
 
12
                            
 
-
                          
 
-
(154)
 
(6)
                          
 
(27)
                          
 
(187)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
172
9
                           
 
(27)                          
 
154
Opening Balance
Recognised in 
profit and loss
Recognised in other
comprehensive
Income 
Closing 
balance
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Opening Balance
Recognised in 
profit and loss
Recognised in other
comprehensive
Income 
Closing 
balance
Particulars
March 31, 2024
165
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 17 - Current borrowings
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Secured (refer Notes below) 
Book Overdraft
120
                                
 
-
                                        
Total
120
-
Particulars
Notes:
(i)  Current borrowings- Book overdraft represents availment of cash credit facility, which carries an interest rate of 9.90% per 
annum.
(ii) First charge on all Property, plant and equipment of the Company except land and building.
(iii) Details of quarterly statements of current assets filed by the Company with the bank and reconciliation with the books of 
account for the year ended March 31, 2025:
a. Inventories
Quarter
Name of bank
Particulars
of Securities 
Provided
Jun-24
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
3,192
Amount as per
books
of account
                                    
3,192
Amount as 
reported in the
quarterly return/ 
Statement
 
Amount of
difference
            
 
-
Sep-24
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
3,446
                                    
 
3,446
            
 
-
Dec-24
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
3,580
                                    
 
3,580
            
 
-
Mar-25
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
3,440
                                    
 
3,440
            
 -
b. Trade receivables
Receivables
Receivables
Receivables
Receivables
Accounting Policy
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction cost incurred. Borrowings are classified as current liabilites unless 
the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 month after the reporting period.
Quarter
Name of bank
Particulars
of Securities 
Provided
Jun-24
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
Amount as per
books of
account (Gross)
                                    
Amount as 
reported in the
quarterly return/ 
Statement
 
Amount of
difference
            
 
Sep-24
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
                                    
             
Dec-24
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
                                    
             
Mar-25
State Bank of India and 
ICICI Bank Limited
                                    
             
 3,802 
 3,872 
 4,175 
 6,694 
 3,802 
 3,872 
 4,175 
 6,694 
-
-
-
-
166
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 18 - Trade payables
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Total Outstanding dues of Micro and Small enterprises (MSME) (refer Note 37)
354
                                        
 
223
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than MSME
       - Related parties (refer note 34)
435
                                        
 
280
 - Other than related parties
                                      2,109 
                                 1,856 
                                      2,544 
                                 2,136 
Total
2,898
2,359
As at March 31, 2025
Unbilled trade 
payables
(Accrued)
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) Undisputed Dues - MSME
354
                   
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
354
(ii) Undisputed Dues - Others
651
                   
 
1,307
                
 
524
                   
 
56
                     
 
2
                       
 
4
                       
2,544
(iii) Disputed Dues - MSME
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
-
(iv) Disputed Dues - Others
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
-
Total
651
                   
 
1,661
                
 
524
                   
 
56
                     
 
2
                       
 
4
                       
2,898
Particulars
Outstanding for the following period from the due date of payment
As at March 31, 2024
Unbilled trade 
payables
(Accrued)
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Total
(i) Undisputed Dues - MSME
223
                   
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
223
(ii) Undisputed Dues - Others
434
                   
 
1,031
                
 
588
                   
 
45
                     
 
16
                       
 
22
                       
2,136
(iii) Disputed Dues - MSME
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
-
(iv) Disputed Dues - Others
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
 
-
                    
-
Total
434
                   
 
1,254
                
 
588
                   
 
45
                     
 
16
                       
 
22
                       
2,359
Particulars
Outstanding for the following period from the due date of payment
Refer Note 43(n) on other accounting policies
167
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note  21 - Other current liabilities
(a) Advances received from customers (refer Note below)
(b) Statutory dues payable (other than income taxes)
(c) Others
179
358
26
563
Total
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
                                 
 
                               
                                        
Particulars
                                
 
                                      
153
470
36
659
Notes:
(i)  Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of products sold which are still under warranty at the end of the reporting 
period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Warranty estimates are established using historical 
information on the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims and also management estimates regarding possible 
future outflow on servicing the customers for any corrective action in respect of product failure which is generally expected to be 
settled within a period of 24 months.
(ii) Movement in provision for warranty:
Note 20 - Provisions 
Refer Note 43(d) on other accounting policies.
                                 
 
                                        
786
694
Total
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
                               
                               
                             
                             
Particulars
(a) Provision for employee benefits
- Compensated absences (refer Note 33)
- Gratuity (refer Note 33)
(b) Provision for Warranty (refer Notes below)
483
178
574
169
43
33
As at end of the year
43
33
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
                                 
 
                               
                                        
Particulars
As at beginning of the year
33
                               
 
16
                                      
Provision recognised during the year (refer Note 28)
18
                               
 
25
                                      
Amounts used during the year
(8)
                                
 
(8)
                                      
Notes:
(i)  There are no amounts which has remained unpaid or unclaimed as at Balance sheet date requiring transfer to Investor Education 
and Protection Fund. 
(ii) Creditors for capital supplies and services includes dues to MSME amounting to Rs. 11 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Nil)
Note 19 - Other financial liabilities - Current
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
                                 
 
25
                               
 
23
                                      
10
                               
 
10
                                      
430
                             
 
104
                                    
254
                             
 
252
                                    
7
7
                                        
726
396
Particulars
Total
(a)  Unclaimed and Unpaid dividends (refer Note (i) below) 
(b)  Deposit from related party (refer Note 34) 
(c)  Creditors for capital supplies and services (refer Note (ii) below) 
(d)  Due to employees 
 Others 
(e)
168
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 22 - Revenue from operations
Accounting Policy
a) Sale of goods
b) Sale of services
The Company earns revenue from sale of goods and services of Super Abrasives, High precision Grinding, Honing, Special Purpose 
Machines and High Precision Components.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when control of products has transferred to customers  and there are no unfulfilled 
obligations that could affect the customer's acceptance of the products. Control of products is considered to be transferred at a point-
in-time when goods have been despatched or delivered, as per the terms agreed with the customer.
Revenue is recognised at the transaction price which the Company expects to be entitled. 
The Company does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money as the contracts with customers do not contain a 
significant financing component, since the sales are generally made with a credit term of 30 to 60 days, which is consistent with market 
practice.
When the payment exceeds the value of goods supplied or services rendered, a contract liability (advance from customers) is 
recognised. If the value of goods supplied or services rendered exceed the payment, a contract asset is recognised.
 
Revenue from rendering of services is recognized as the services are rendered over a period of time as per the terms of contracts with 
customers.
Note:
(i)  Movement of advances received from customers:
                               179 
                               584 
                             (610)
Balance as at end of the year 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
                                 
 
                               
                                        
Particulars
                                
 
                                      
Balance as at beginning of the year
Amounts received during the year 
Amounts recognized as revenue during the year
                               153 
                                     144 
                                  1,222 
                                 (1,187)
                                     179 
Notes:
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
 
                               
21,487
(i) Revenue from contract with customers
(a) Sale of products [refer Notes (i) and (iii) below] 
19,432
18,647
(b) Sale of services [refer Notes (ii) and (iii) below] 
1,765
1,979
21,197
 
20,626
                             
(ii) Other operating revenue [refer Note (iv) below]
290
233
                    
20,859
Year ended
Total
Particulars 
(i) Details of sale of products (point in time)
Manufactured products
19,242
18,292
 Traded products
190
355
 Total - sale of products
19,432
18,647
 Year ended 
Particulars 
                    
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
                    
 
                             
                         
 
                                  
169
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
46
4
45
613
25
4
94
15
                     -   
                     31 
48
145
346
17
93
6
Total
846
686
(a) Interest income 
- On income tax refund
- Others (from financial assets measured at amortised cost)
(b) Rental income (refer Note 32)
(c) Net gain on sale of current investments
(d)
(e)
(f) Net gain on foreign exchange transactions and translation
(g) Miscellaneous income
Net fair value gain on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 
Net gain on disposal of Property, plant and equipment/scrapped
Year ended
Particulars
                         
 Total - other operating revenue
290
233
                    
 
                             
                          
 
                                   
                    
 
(iv) Details of other operating revenue
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Sale of scrap
116
73
Commission
19
20
Management fee
32
32
Export incentives
61
57
Freight recovery from customers - net
62
51
 Year ended 
Particulars 
Note 23 - Other income
(iii) Other disclosures required under Ind AS 115
(a) All the revenue contracts are for periods of one year or less. Hence as permitted under Ind AS 115, the transaction price 
allocated to these unsatisfied contracts is not disclosed.
(b) Refer Note 31 for disclosure of disaggregated revenue.
(c) Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract price.
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Contract price
Adjustment towards variable consideration
Revenue from sale of products and services
21,197
-
21,197
20,626
-
20,626
 Year ended 
Particulars 
(ii) Details of sale of services (overtime)
Machining charges
Others
 Total - sale of services
Particulars 
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
1,543
                      
1,762
222
                         
217
1,765
                      
1,979
170
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
984
819
12
-
                    
831
Note 27 - Depreciation and amortisation expense
Total
Note 26 - Finance costs
(a) Interest expense on borrowings
(b) Interest on lease liabilities
(c) Interest - others
-
5
-
0
-
                  
0
                     
5
0
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
 
 
Total
Particulars
Year ended
896
69
19
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Year ended
(a) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer Note 3)
(b) Amortisation of intangible assets (refer Note 6)
(c) Depreciation of right-of-use asset (refer Note 3B) 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening stock
Work-in-progress
723
                      
 
621
                  
Finished goods
436
                      
 
288                  
Stock-in-trade
81
                        
 
162                  
1,240
                   
 
1,071               
Closing stock
Work-in-progress
772
                      
 
723
                  
Finished goods
401
                      
 
436
                  
Stock-in-trade
79
                        
 
81
                    
1,252
1,240
Net (increase) / decrease
(12)
(169)
 Year ended 
Particulars
Note 24 - Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a) Salaries, wages and bonus
3,287
2,971
(b) Contribution to provident and other funds (refer Note 33C)
304
 
306
                  
(c) Staff welfare expenses
386
 
360
                  
3,977
 
3,637
               
Total
Note 25 - Employee benefits expense
Year ended
Particulars
171
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
172
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 28 - Other expenses
                                   
                               
                                 
 
                            
                                   
 
                               
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Year ended
Stores and spares consumed
1,141 
 1,011 
Contract labour
 151 
 143 
Repairs and maintenance
- Buildings
 105 
 113 
- Machinery
 171 
 237 
- Others
 58 
 42 
Power and fuel charges
419 
 426 
Freight outward and packing charges (net)
320 
 317 
Rental charges (refer Note 3B(v))
1 
 5 
Job work Processing charges
924 
 1,083 
Sitting fees paid to non-executive directors (refer Note 34)
13 
 10 
Commission to non-executive directors (refer Note 34)
22 
 25 
Rates and taxes
169 
 52 
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (refer Note 39)
94 
 71 
Insurance
40 
 34 
Selling commission
 274 
 283 
Loss allowance for trade receivables (refer Note 30.3.2)
 25 
 15 
Auditors remuneration 
   As Auditors
Statutory audit and limited review
 15 
 12 
Tax audit and certificates
 1 
 2 
Reimbursement of expenses
2 
 3 
Bank charges
49 
 37 
Management fee (refer Note 34)
 290 
 274 
Professional expenses
 328 
 184 
Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Charges
 142 
 117 
Advertisement and sales promotion expenses
 53 
 27 
Warranty expenses (refer Note 20)
 18 
 25 
Travelling and conveyance expenses
 266 
 183 
Communication expenses
 18 
 15 
Miscellaneous expenses
 220 
 206 
Total
 5,329  
                4,952
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
                 
 
                 
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current tax
In respect of the current year
                 
 
                 
In respect of the prior years
                    
 
                      
Deferred tax
In respect of the current year 
1,164
(70)
1,094
                 
46
                     
46
                     
1,263
10
1,273
                 
10
                   
10
                   
1,140                 
 
1,283                 
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit before tax 
                  4,969                    5,233 
Income tax using the Company's domestic tax rate of 25.17% (March 31, 2024 - 25.17%)
                  1,251                    1,317 
Effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit
50
                     
Effect of differential tax on long-term capital gain
(88)
                    
                   
Effect of unused tax losses utilized during current period
(4)
                      
                   
Others
1
                       
 
18
                   
(62)
-
-
                   
1,210
1,273
Adjustment recognised in the current year in relation to current tax of previous years
(70)
10
1,140
1,283
Total
Particulars
Income tax recognised in statement of profit and loss
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note  29 - Income tax recognised in profit or loss
(b) Numerical reconciliation between average effective tax rate and applicable tax rate :
(a) Income tax expense
Particulars
Note:
1) The tax impact for deferred tax purposes has been arrived by applying a tax rate of 25.17% (March 31, 2024 : 25.17%) 
being the prevailing tax rate applicable for the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 under the Income 
tax Act , 1961.
(c) Unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised           
-   
                        32
Carried forward unused tax losses relates to long-term capital losses has been utilised during the current year against the 
long-term capital gain arising out of sale of Investments.
Refer Note 43(e) on other accounting policies
173
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
174
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 30 - Financial Instruments
30.1 Capital Management 
30.2 Categories of financial instruments
The capital includes issued equity share capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders. The Company’s 
objectives when managing capital is to safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern while maximizing the return to 
shareholders through the optimization of cash and cash equivalents along with investment which is predominantly investment in 
liquid mutual funds and deposits.
The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of March 31, 2025  and  March 31, 2024 were as follows:
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
Financial Assets
Measured at fair value through profit
and loss (FVTPL)
Investments
4,578
                 
 
6,831
 
4,578
                 
6,831
                 
Measured at amortized cost
  - Trade receivables
6,589
                 
 
5,140
 
6,589
                 
5,140
                 
  - Cash and cash equivalents
267
                   
 
389
267
                   
 
389
                   
  - Other bank balances
26
                     
 
24
26
                     
 
24
                     
  - Other financial assets
170
169
170
169
Total financial assets
11,630
12,553
11,630
12,553
Financial Liabilities
Measured at amortized cost
  - Trade payables
2,898
                 
 
2,359
 
2,898
                 
2,359
                 
  - Other financial liabilities
726
396
726
396
  - Borrowings
120
                   
 
-
120
                   
 
-
                    
  - Lease liabilities
38
-
38
-
Total financial liabilities
3,782
2,755
3,782
2,755
Particulars
Carrying Amount as at
Fair Value as at
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current 
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The management assessed that fair value of cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables  and other current 
financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of the unquoted mutual funds is based on the net asset value published by the asset management company at the 
reporting date.
Fair value hierarchy
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e.as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. Derived from prices).
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Investment in a subsidiary is measured at cost and hence not considered for categorisation.
Financial assets designated at FVTPL:
As at March 31, 2025
   -  Investment in mutual funds 
7B
4,578
      
4,578
               
 
-
               
 
-               
As at March 31, 2024
   -  Investment in mutual funds
7B
6,831
      
6,831
               
 
-
               
 
-
               
Quoted prices in 
active markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable 
inputs (Level 2)
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs (Level 3)
Fair value measurement using
Particulars
Note
Total
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
The following table presents the assets and liabilities which are measured at amortized cost for which fair values are disclosed 
as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Quoted prices in 
active markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable inputs 
(Level 2)
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs (Level 3)
As at March 31, 2025
Financial assets measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade receivables
12
6,589
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
6,589
  - Cash and cash equivalents
13A
267
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
267
  - Other bank balances
13B
26
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
26
  - Other financial assets
8
170
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
170
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
2,898
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 2,898
  - Other financial liabilities
19
726
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
726
  - Borrowings
17
120
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
120
  - Lease liabilities
3B
38
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
38
As at March 31, 2024
Financial assets measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade receivables
12
5,140
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
5,140
  - Cash and cash equivalents
13A
389
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
389
  - Other bank balances
13B
24
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
24
  - Other financial assets
8
169
 
-
                 
 
-
                  
 
169
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
2,359
-
-
2,359
  - Other financial liabilities
19
396
-
-
396
Particulars
Note
Total
Fair value measurement using
There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period.
The following table presents the fair value measurement hierarchy of financial assets measured at fair value on recurring 
basis as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
175
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note 30.3 Financial risk management objectives and polices
30.3.1 Market risk
30.3.1 (a)  Foreign currency risk management
The Company treasury function provides service to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial 
markets monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Company through internal risk report which 
analyze exposures by degree and magnitude of risk. These risk include market risk (currency risk and interest risk), price risk, credit 
risk and liquidity risk.
The Company seeks to minimize the effects of these risks by using policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written 
principles on interest risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity. The Company does not enter into trade financial instruments 
for speculative purpose.
The Company treasury function reports quarterly to the senior management team that monitors risk and policies implemented to 
mitigate risk exposures.
The Company is exposed primarily to the financial risk of change in foreign currency exchange rate. The Company transacts in 
various foreign currencies. Foreign currencies are recognised at the rate of exchange prevailing at the date of transaction. Company 
being a net exporter, follows the policy of natural hedging of foreign exchange transactions. There is net foreign exchange gain in the 
current and previous year.
The Company undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies, consequently, the Company is exposed to exchange rate 
fluctuations. To mitigate this, Company is operating US Dollar and EURO denominated Exchange Earners' Foreign Currency 
(EEFC) account. The export proceeds are getting credited in this account and these amounts in foreign currency are utilized to make 
import payments. Further, the Company, being a net exporter, follows the policy of natural hedging of foreign exchange earnings and 
outflow and hence it does not take any forward covers.
The carrying amounts of the Company's foreign currency (unhedged) denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
end of the reporting period are as follows:
176
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The net exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is insignificant.
Foreign 
Currency
(in lakhs)
INR
(in lakhs)
Foreign 
Currency
(in lakhs)
INR
(in lakhs)
   - USD
               5.1 
              437 
             4.96 
417
   - EUR
               2.8 
              263 
             2.07 
190
   - GBP
               0.1 
                 7 
             0.17 
19
   - CHF
               0.0 
0
             0.14 
13
   - JPY
           442.6 
              257 
                -                     - 
              964 
              639 
Trade and other receivables 
   - USD
             8.40 
              711 
           11.13 
918
   - EUR
             2.34 
              214 
             3.33 
295
   - RUB
                -   
                -            128.25 
112
   - GBP
             0.51 
                56 
             0.66 
68
              981 
           1,393 
Trade Payable against Import of goods, capital items and services 
March 31, 2024
Particulars
March 31, 2025
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
The sensitivity of impact on profit or loss of the Company to changes in the exchange rates, individual currency wise, is 
summarized below:-
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
USD Sensitivity
INR/USD - Increase by 1%
0.06%
0.10%
INR/USD - Decrease by 1%
(0.06%)
(0.10%)
EUR Sensitivity
INR/EUR - Increase by 1%
(0.01%)
0.02%
INR/EUR - Decrease by 1%
0.01%
(0.02%)
Impact on profit before tax (in %)
Currency Sensitivity
30.3.2 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a 
financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its investing 
activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
The customers are broadly classified into high risk and medium risk, accordingly credit limit exposure is fixed. The Company carries 
out payment performance review of all customers and based on this analysis, risk category of customers are evaluated annually. 
Further, the utilization of credit limit is regularly monitored by the Management.
Details of loss allowance on Trade receivables and contract assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Gross
Carrying
Amount
Expected
Credit 
Loss (%)
Expected
Credit Loss
Amount
Within the credit period
Less than 6 months past due
6 months - 1 year past due
1 - 2 years days past due
> 2 years past due
 4,276 
 2,228 
 171 
 56 
 2 
 3,459 
 1,677 
 125 
 60 
 7 
 0.3 
 1.4 
 11.5 
 66.0 
 100.0 
 0.3 
 1.3 
 11.5 
 43.5 
 100.0 
 15 
 31 
 20 
 37 
 2 
 10 
 23 
 14 
 26 
 7 
Expected
Credit Loss
Amount
Expected
Credit 
Loss (%)
Gross
Carrying
Amount
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance as at beginning of the year
                  80 
65
                  
 
Amounts recognised in the year (Refer Note 28)
                  25 
                   15 
Amounts written off during the year
                   -   
                    -   
Balance as at end of the year 
                 105 
                   80 
105
177
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
178
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
30.3.3 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company's 
approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company's business and 
reputation.
The Company regularly reviews its receivables, inventory and other working capital elements to mitigate any liquidity 
concerns. Any surplus from the business funds needs is parked in debt mutual funds (liquid / liquid plus) of reputed Asset 
Management Companies to provide day to day working capital.
(i) Financial arrangements
The Company had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period (fund based)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Floating Rate
     - Expiring within one year (bank overdraft and other facilities)
500
400
Book Overdraft as shown in Note 17 represents availment of cash credit facility in the books as at year-end. This was temporary 
and there was no actual utilisation of the borrowing facility.
Refer note 43(l) on other accounting policies
Carrying
amount
Less than
 1 year
1 - 2 
years
More than
2 years
As at March 31, 2025
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
2,898
              
 
2,898
          
 
-
             
-
  - Other financial liabilities
19
726
                 
 
726
            
 
-
             
-
  - Borrowings
17
120
                 
 
120
            
 
-
             
-
  - Lease liabilities
3B
38
                   
 
19
              
 
19
              
-
As at March 31, 2024
18
2,359
2,359
-
-
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
  - Other financial liabilities
19
396
396
-
-
Particulars
Note
Contractual cash flows
The following table presents the maturity period of all financial liabilities as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Accounting Policy
31.1 Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenue
31.2 Segment Revenues and Results
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision 
maker (CODM).
The Chief Executive officer (CEO) of the Company has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) as 
defined by Ind AS 108, Operating Segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which 
discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the CODM, in deciding how to allocate resources and 
assessing performance.  
1) The Company is organised into three main business segments, namely :
     a) Super Abrasives,  b) Machines and Accessories and c) Precision Products.
The  above segments have been identified taking into account the organisation structure as well as the differing risks and 
returns of these segments. The Company has identified business segments as its primary segments. The reportable 
business segments are in line with the segment wise information which is being presented to the CODM.
2) Segment revenue and expenses have been identified to segments on the basis of their relationships to the operating 
activities of the segment. Revenue and expenses, which relate to the enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to 
segments on a reasonable basis have been included under “Other un-allocable Income”.
Note 31 - Segment Disclosure
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
1. Segment Revenue
a) Super Abrasives
14,054
              
 
13,161
b) Machines and Accessories
4,650
                
 
4,732
c) Precision Products
2,779
                
 
2,733
Total
21,483
              
 
20,626
Less:- Inter Segment Revenue
286
                   
-
Revenues from contract with customers
21,197
              
 
20,626
2. Segment Results
a) Super Abrasives
3,144
                
 
3,120
b) Machines and Accessories
854
                   
1,111
c) Precision Products
332
                   
399
Total
4,330
                
 
4,630
Less: (i)  Finance costs
5
                      
0
(ii)  Other un-allocable Income net of un-allocable Expenditure of 
      Rs.202 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs.83 lakhs)
(644)
                 
(603)
Profit before tax
4,969
5,233
179
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
180
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
31.3 Other profit and loss disclosures
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Specified amounts included in the measure of segment profit or 
loss (i.e.,  Profit before tax) reviewed by the CODM:
 Earning before interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) 
a) Super Abrasives
3,804
                
 
3,710
                
b) Machines and Accessories
912
                   
1,142
                
c) Precision Products
598
609
                   
Total
5,314
5,461
31.4 Revenue by geographical market 
India
15,682               
Outside India
4,944                
Total
16,834
 
4,363
21,197
20,626
31.5 Segment assets and liabilities
Assets other than property, plant and equipment, inventory and trade receivables, and liabilities are not identifiable to any reportable 
segment, as these are used interchangable between segments.
a) Super Abrasives
12,564
              
 
8,710
                
b) Machines and Accessories
5,764
                
 
3,779
                
c) Precision Products
3,039
2,632
Total segment assets
21,367
              
 
15,121
               
Unallocable assets
6,093
                
 
8,247
                
 
Total assets as per Balance sheet
27,460
23,368
Segment Liabilities-Unallocable
5,485
                
 
4,167
                
31.6 Non current assets by geographical market other than financial assets and income tax assets
India
11,337
              
 
6,488
                
Outside India
-
-
Total 
11,337
6,488
31.7 Information about major customers
One single customer represents 10% or more of the Company's total revenue for the year ended March 31,2025 (March 31, 2024: NIL).
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
The Company has entered into operating lease arrangements and leased out a portion of its factory building to a related party, which 
is for a period of less than 12 months. 
This lease is a short term lease and does not include any variable payment terms.
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss:
The Statement of Profit or Loss shows the following amount related to leases:
Note 32  - Leases as a lessor
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Lease rental income recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
(Refer Note 23)
45
                  
 
48
                 
Details of the Factory Building (leased out portion) are as given below:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
239
                
 
239
               
 
Less: Accumulated depreciation
18
                  
 
14
                 
Net carrying amount
221
                
 
225
               
 
The depreciation recognized in respect of the leased out portion of the factory building for the year is Rs. 4 lakhs
(March 31, 2024 : Rs. 4 lakhs).
There are no contingent rents receivable and there are no direct operating expenses related to the above building.
Note 33  - Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Plans
Defined Benefit Plans
The Company operates defined contribution benefit plans for all qualifying employees.
Superannuation fund, Providend fund and pension fund are defined contribution plans towards which the Company makes 
contribution at predetermined rates to the Superannuation Trust funded with Life Insurance Corporation of India and the Regional 
Provident Fund Commissioner respectively. The same is debited to the Statement of Profit and Loss based on the amount of 
contribution required to be made as and when services are rendered by the employees. The Company also makes contributions to 
state plans namely Employee’s State Insurance Fund and Employee’s Pension Scheme 1995. The Company has no further 
payment obligation once the contributions have been paid.
The Company is having defined benefit plan namely gratuity for all qualifying employees.
The liability for gratuity to employees as at the Balance Sheet date is determined on the basis of actuarial valuation using Projected 
Unit Credit method. The amount is funded to a Gratuity fund administered by the trustees of 'M/s. Wendt (India) Limited Employees 
Group Gratuity Trust' and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. 
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gain and losses and the return on plan assets (excluding  net interest), is reflected 
immediately in the Balance Sheet with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they 
occur. Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected in retained earnings and is not reclassified to profit or 
loss.
181
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
The plans typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary risk.
Investment risk
Interest risk
Longevity risk
Salary risk
If the return on plan asset is below the discount rate which is determined by reference to market yields 
at the end of the reporting period, it will create a plan defecit.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using the discount rate which is 
determined by reference to market yield at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. For other 
defined benefit plans, the discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the 
reporting period. A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability. However, this will be 
partially offset by an increase in the return on the plan's  investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the 
mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectance of 
the plan participants will increase the plan's liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of 
plan participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan's liability.
A. Gratuity
(a)  Change in defined benefit obligation
The following tables set out the funded status of the gratuity plans and the amounts recognised in the Company's financial 
statements as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of period
                                 992 
                                 827 
Service cost
  
    a) Current service cost
                                   92 
                                   77 
    b) Past service cost
-
                                
 
36
                                  
Interest expenses 
                                   69 
                                   55 
Benefits paid
                                  (28)
                                (122)
Remeasurements:
  
    a) Effect of changes in demographic assumptions
                                   30 
                                  (25)
    b) Effect of change in financial assumptions
                                   21 
                                   12 
    c) Effect of experience adjustments
                                   24 
                                 132 
Transfer in
                                   17 
                                   -   
Transfer out
                                  (25)
                                   -   
Defined benefit obligation at end of period
                              1,192 
                                 992 
(b) Change in fair value of plan assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period
                                 814 
                                 781 
Interest income
                                   63 
                                   55 
Contributions
                                 180 
                                   91 
Benefits paid
                                  (28)
                                (122)
Remeasurements:
    a) Return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
                                     2 
                                     9 
Transfer in
                                   17 
                                   -   
Transfer out
                                  (25)
                                   -   
Fair value of plan assets at end of period
                              1,023 
                                 814 
182
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
(c)  Amounts recognized in the Balance Sheet
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Defined benefit obligation
                              1,192 
                                 992 
Fair value of plan assets
                             (1,023)
                                (814)
Net defined benefit liability* / (asset)
                                 169 
                                 178 
*Included under provision for employee benefits in Note 20 - "Provisions”
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Service cost
                                   92 
                                   77 
Net interest cost
                                     6 
0
Past service cost
                                   -   
                                   36 
Net Gratuity cost in the Statement of Profit and Loss*
                                   98 
                                 113 
* Included under contribution to provident and other funds in Note 25 - "Employee benefits expense”
(d)  Amounts recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Fund with an Insurance Company
                              1,023 
                                 814 
(f) Composition of plan assets
(g)  Significant actuarial assumptions
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.78%
7.03%
Salary escalation rate
12.00%
12.00%
Attrition rate
7.00%
8.00%
Retirement age
 58 years 
 58 years 
Pre-retirement mortality
 Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) Ultimate 
 Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) Ultimate 
The Company assesses these assumptions with its projected long-term plans of growth and prevalent industry standards.
The discount rate is based on the government securities yield.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
(e)  Amounts recognized in the Other Comprehensive Income
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / (asset)
Actuarial (gains) / losses
 75 
 118 
(Return) / Loss on plan assets excluding  amounts included in 
 (2)
 (9)
the net interest on the defined benefit liability / (asset)
Net Cost in Other Comprehensive Income
 73 
 109 
183
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
184
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
(h) Sensitivity analysis - DBO end of Period
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Discount rate +100 basis points
                              1,103 
                                 921 
Discount rate -100 basis points
                              1,293 
                              1,073 
Salary escalation rate +1%
                              1,285 
                              1,066 
Salary escalation rate -1%
                              1,109 
                                 925 
Attrition rate +1%
                              1,162 
                                 969 
Attrition rate -1%
                              1,225 
                              1,017 
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, salary escalation rate and attrition 
rate. The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual changes in the defined benefit obligation as it is 
unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated 
using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined 
benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
(i) Expected cash flows for following year
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Expected employer contributions /Addl. Provision next year
191
199
Expected total benefit payments
Year 1
81
61
Year 2
93
103
Year 3
120
84
Year 4
97
108
Year 5
131
88
Next 5 years
590
524
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 10.03 years (March 31, 2024: 9.41 years)
B. Compensated Absences
(a) Charge to Statement of Profit and Loss and Liability
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Charge / (credit) in the Statement of Profit and Loss
                                 123 
                                   72 
Liability as at the year end (refer Note 20)
                                 574 
                                 483 
The entire amount of provision is presented as current since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer
settlement of any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to avail
the full amount of accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 12 months. The leave obligation not expected
to be settled within the next 12 months amounts to Rs. 393 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 317 lakhs).
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Employers' Contribution to Provident Fund *
                                 113                                    99 
Employers’ Contribution to Superannuation Fund *
                                   29                                    29 
Employers’ Contribution to Employee’s Pension Scheme 1995 *
                                   64                                    65 
Employers’ Contribution to Employee’s State Insurance  #
                                     5                                      7 
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
(b) Actuarial Assumptions
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.78% p.a.
7.03% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
 12.00% p.a. 
 12.00% p.a. 
C. Defined Contribution Plans
* Included in Contribution to provident and other funds
# Included in staff welfare expenses
Note 34  - Related Party Transactions
1)  List of Related Parties:
i) Party where control exists -Subsidiaries
  
(a) 
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
ii) Investors with significant influence (SI) on the Company and their subsidiaries or fellow subsidiaries, with whom 
transactions have taken place during the year
(a) 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
      
(1)  CUMI America Inc, USA
      
(2)  CUMI (Australia) Pty Limited, Australia
(3)  Net Access India Limited, India
(4)  Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
      
(5)  Southern  Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
(6)  RHODIUS Abrasives GmbH, Germany
   (b) 
Wendt GmbH, Germany
(1)  Winterthur Technology Iberica SL, Spain
(2)  3M Company US (Montrose, USA)
      
(3)  3M Australia Pty Limited, Australia
(4)  3M Svenska AB, Sweden
(5)  3M International Trading (SHA) Co., Shanghai
iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP) with whom transactions have taken place during the year
   Mr. Ninad Gadgil, Executive Director and CEO (From May 6, 2024)
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao, Non-Executive Director
    Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar, Non-Executive Director (From July 24, 2024)
    Mr. Srikanth C, Executive Director and CEO (till May 5, 2024)
    Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar, Non-Executive Director (till July 23, 2024)
    Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan, Non-Executive Director *
   Mr. M Lakshminarayan, Non-Executive Director (till November 30, 2023)
   Ms.Hima Srinivas, Non-Executive Director
Mr. Muthiah Venkatachalam, Non-Executive Director
185
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
iv) Other Related Party
Wendt (India) Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust
* No transactions during the year
2) Transaction with related parties during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are as follows:
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
Purchase of Capital Goods
Southern Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
Net Access India Limited, India
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Purchase of Intangible Assets
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Purchase of Goods
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Selling Commission 
CUMI America Inc, USA
EDP Charges
Net Access India Limited, India
Reimbursement of other Expenses to related parties
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
CUMI America Inc, USA
Management Fee
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Managerial Remuneration
Mr. Srikanth C
Mr. Ninad Gadgil
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
KMP
KMP
 113 
 76 
 184 
 373 
 
3,508 
 292 
 175 
 -   
 8 
 475 
 
-   
 71 
 59 
 32 
 91 
 
290 
 19 
 194 
 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
-   
 143 
 146 
 12 
 21 
 322 
 
28 
 38 
 52 
 -   
 52 
 
274 
 129 
 -   
 
186
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
Sitting fees paid
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Mr. M Lakshminarayan
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Mr Muthiah Venkatachalam
Commission to non-executive directors
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Mr. M Lakshminarayan
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Mr Muthiah Venkatachalam
Payment of Dividend 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Contribution to post employment Benefit Plan
Wendt (India) Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust
Sale of Goods and Services
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
CUMI America Inc, USA
CUMI (Australia) Pty Ltd, Australia
RHODIUS Abrasives GmbH,Germany
Winterthur Technology Iberica SL, Spain
3M Svenska AB, Sweden
3M Australia Pty Limited, Australia
3M Company US (Montrose, USA)
3M International Trading (SHA) Co. Shanghai
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Other related party
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
 
 -   
3 
 4 
 2 
 2 
 13 
 
2 
 -   
 7 
 5 
 3 
 5 
 22 
 375 
 375 
 750 
 
180 
 262 
 312 
 240 
 338 
 2 
 -   
 51 
 1 
 -   
 -   
 3 
 21 
 1,230 
 
2 
 
 1 
2 
 3 
 -   
 1 
 10 
 
5 
 3 
 7 
 5 
 -   
 5 
 25 
 600 
 600 
 1,200 
 
91 
 265 
 402 
 278 
 412 
 2 
 1 
 94 
 1 
 0 
 12 
 -   
 20 
 1,487 
 
3 
187
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
Receipt of Management fee, Commission and Rent 
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary
 19 
 45 
 32 
 96 
 20 
 48 
 32 
 100 
Reimbursement of Expenses - Received
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Investor with SI
45
22
3) The details of amounts due to or due from related parties as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are as follows:
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
Trade receivables and Contract assets
Wendt GmbH, Germany
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
CUMI America Inc, USA
CUMI (Australia) Pty Ltd, Australia
Winterthur Technology Iberica SL, Spain
3M International Trading (SHA) Co. Shanghai
3M Svenska AB, Sweden
3M Company US (Montrose, USA)
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Other financial assets
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd, Thailand
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Other Non-current assets
Southern Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
 52 
 122 
 23 
 124 
 1 
 7 
 3 
 1 
 -   
 -   
 333 
27 
 5 
 32 
-   
 46 
 57 
 26 
 122 
 -   
 22 
 -   
 -   
 3 
 5 
 281 
27 
 10 
 37 
19 
Trade payables
Wendt GmbH, Germany
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Cumi America Inc, USA
Southern Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Net Access India Limited, India
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
 59 
 341 
 14 
 1 
 2 
 18 
 435 
 34 
 228 
 10 
 -   
 6 
 2 
 280 
188
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Other financial liabilities
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Commission payable
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Mr. M Lakshminarayan
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Mr Muthiah Venkatachalam
Investor with SI
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
10 
 2 
 -   
 7 
 5 
 3 
 5 
 22 
10 
 5 
 3 
 7 
 5 
 -   
 5 
 25 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
4) The details of compensation to KMP are as follows:
 Year ended 
March 31, 2025 
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
Short-term benefits
189
                              111
Post Employment Benefits
24
                                18
Other benefits
0
                                  
0
Sitting fees and commission
35
35
Particulars
Note: The related party relationships are as identified by the Company, on the basis of information available with the Company.
Transactions with related parties, including in the nature of sale of goods, rendering of services, purchase of goods (including
capital goods), procurement of services, purchase of intangible assets and others are at arm’s length price. 
Disclosure as required under Sec 186(4) of Companies Act, 2013
 As at 
March 31, 2025 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
Investment in Subsidiary (refer Note 7A)
277
                              277
Particulars
189
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
190
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note:  Relates to incremental export obligation to be fulfiled by the Company as a condition towards duty saved on property,
plant and equipment imported under the Export Promotion Captial Goods Scheme. As per managment's estimate, the Company
will be able to fulfill the balance obligation over the prescribed period of time i.e. upto March 31, 2026.
36.2 The Company does not have any pending litigations that would impact its financial position as at March 31, 2025. 
Note  35 - Earning per share (EPS) 
Accounting Policy
The basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit attributable to equity shareholders for the year by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the 
determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs 
associated with dilutive potential equity shares, and the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been 
outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
                    3,829 
                3,950 
             20,00,000 
         20,00,000 
                         10 
                     10 
(a) Profit for the year 
(b) Weighted average number of equity shares (numbers)  
(c) Nominal value of shares (in rupees)
    Earnings per share (in rupees) -
     Basic and diluted 
                  191.46 
              197.49 
Note : There is no dilution to the Basic Earnings per Equity Share as there are no dilutive potential equity shares.
Note 36 - Contingent Liability and commitments to the extent not provided for:
36.1 Commitments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1,041
                   
1,162                
2,009
                   
1,777                
(a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account (in 
     respect of tangible assets) and not  provided for (net of advances Rs. 30 lakhs, 
     March 31, 2024: Rs.65 lakhs)
(b) Commitment towards partly paid-up share for 100% Wholly Owned Subsidiary - 
10,299,993 shares @ THB 7.50 (1 THB = INR 2.60, March 31, 2024: INR 2.30)
     
(c)  Other Commitments
       - Fulfilment of Export obligation (refer Note below)
146
143
 (Rs. in lakhs, except number of shares)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note  37 - Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Development Act, 2006 ('MSMED Act')
Note 38 -  Research and Development Expenditure
Research and Development expenditure incurred during the year aggregates to Rs. 556 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Rs. 298 lakhs)
as detailed below:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue expenditure (refer note below)
390
270
Capital expenditure (including capital work in progress)
166
28
Total
556
298
Particulars
Note: Revenue expenditure shown above, inter alia,  includes depreciation of Rs. 69 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs.65 lakhs),
consultancy services of Rs. 56 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 15 lakhs) and travel expenditure of Rs.50 lakhs (March 31, 2024 :
Rs. 2 lakhs).
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
                       
                
365
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-                       
-
                       
-                       
223 
-
                 
 
-
                 
 -                 
 
-                 
 
-
                 
 -                 
(i) Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier registered under MSMED
Act as at the end of each accounting year;
(ii) Interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each     
accounting year;
(iii) The amount of principal paid to suppliers registered under MSMED Act beyond     
the appointed day during the year;
(iv) The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED     
Act, along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the 
appointed day during the year;
(v) The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act;
(vi) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each     
accounting year;
(vii) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the  succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues above are actually paid to the small 
enterprise, for the purpose of diasllowance of a deductible expenditure under 
Section 23 of the MSMED Act.
     
191
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
(a) Details of CSR expenditure incurred during the year
Note 39 - Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
(b) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year: Rs. 94 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 71 lakhs)
(c)  Amount spent by the Company during the year:
(d) Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act in respect of other than ongoing projects
Note: Figures in brackets represent amounts for the previous year.
Note 40 - Interest in Subsidiaries
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
CUMI Centre for Skills Development - Skill Development Centre
-
                       25
Construction of School Building in and around Hosur
47
                        15
Local CSR Project, Primary Health centre and ESG related
8
                          
31
Other Facilities to Schools 
39
                        
-
Total
94
71
Particulars
(i) Construction / acquisition of any asset
-
                      
 
-
                      
-
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above
       -  in 2024-25
94
                       
 
                      
94
       -  in 2023-24
71
-
71
Balance unspent as at 
April 01, 2024
Amount deposited in Specified 
Fund of Schedule VII of the Act 
within 6 months
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Balance unspent as 
at  March 31, 2025
-
-
                        94                          94 
                                -   
-
-
(71)
(71)
                                -   
As at March 
31, 2025
As at March 31, 
2024
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd
Thailand
99.99%
99.99%
% of holding and voting power
Name of the Company
Place of business
192
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
-
In Cash
Yet to
 be paid in cash 
Total 
Particulars
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 41 - Additional regulatory information required by Schedule III
(i) 
Details of benami property held: No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding 
benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
(ii) 
Wilful defaulter: The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
(iii) 
Relationship with struck off companies: The Company has no transactions with the companies struck off under Companies 
Act, 2013 or Companies Act, 1956.
(iv) 
Compliance with number of layers of companies: The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under 
the Companies Act, 2013.
(v) 
Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements: The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement 
which has an accounting impact on current or previous financial year.
(vi)(a) The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediaries shall:
a. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
b. provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
(vi)(b)
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
a. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
b. provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
(vii) 
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
(viii) 
The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
(ix) 
The Company has not revalued its Property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the current or previous year.
(x) 
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the standalone financial statements, are 
held in the name of the Company.
(xi) 
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory 
period.
(xii) 
The Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rs.5 crores from banks on the basis of security of 
current assets. Refer Note 17 for details of quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company.
(xiii) 
The Company was not required to recognise any provision as at March 31, 2025 under the applicable law or accounting 
standards, as it does not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts. The Company did not have any 
derivative contracts as at March 31, 2025.
(xiv) 
The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Company is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
193
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 42: Financial Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
March  31, 
2025
March  
31, 2024
% Variance
Reason for 
Variance
Current Ratio (times)
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
2.11
2.37
-11%
Note 1
Debt-Equity Ratio (times)
Debt - Long term
Equity
NIL
NIL
NIL
Note 2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)
Net Operating 
income
Debt Service
NIL
NIL
NIL
Note 2
Return on Equity Ratio (%)
Profit after tax
Average Equity 
19%
22%
-15%
Note 1
Inventory Turnover Ratio (times)
Sales
Average Inventory
6.21
6.31
-2%
Note 1
Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio (times)
Sales
Average receivables
3.61
4.62
-22%
Note 1
Trade Payable Turnover Ratio (times)
Purchase of Goods 
& Other expenses
Average Trade 
payables
4.76
5.26
-10%
Note 1
Net Capital Turnover Ratio (Times)
Sales
Working Capital
3.61
3.75
-4%
Note 1
Net Profit Ratio (%)
Profit after tax
Sales
18%
19%
-6%
Note 1
Return on Capital Employed (%)
Profit before 
interest and tax 
(Excluding 
exceptional item)
Tangible net worth + 
Deferred tax liabilities-
intangible assets
27%
27%
-1%
Note 1
Return on Investment (%)
- Mutual funds
Income Generated 
from investments
Time weighted 
average investments
8%
7%
13%
Note 1
Notes:
1. Not applicable as the variances are less than 25%
2. Book overdraft has not been considered as borrowings and it is short-term in nature. Further, borrowings do not include lease liabilities.
194
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 43: Summary of other Accounting Policies
This note provides a list of other accounting policies adopted in 
Transactions in currencies other than the entity's 
the preparation of Standalone financial statements of the 
functional currency (foreign currencies) are recognised at 
company to the extent they have not already been disclosed in 
the rates of exchange prevailing at the date of the 
the other notes above. These policies have been consistently 
transactions. At the end of each reporting period, 
applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated. 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the  rates prevailing at that date.  Non- 
monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates 
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and 
prevailing at that date when the fair value was 
notes have been rounded off to the nearest lakhs, as per 
determined.  Non-monetary items that are measured in 
the requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not 
stated.
retranslated.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of a business is carried at 
costs as established at the date of acquisition of the 
business less accumulated impairment losses, if 
any.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is 
incomplete by end of the reporting period in which the 
Superannuation fund, Provident fund and Pension fund 
combination occurs, the Company reports provisional 
are defined contribution plans towards which the 
amounts for the items for which the accounting is 
Company makes contribution at predetermined rates to 
incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
the Superannuation Trust, and the Regional Provident 
during the measurement period, or additional assets or 
Fund Commissioner respectively. The same is debited to 
liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information 
the Statement of Profit and Loss based on the amount of 
obtained above facts and circumstances that existed at 
contribution required to be made as and when services 
the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected 
are rendered by the employees.
the amounts recognised at that date.
The Company also makes contributions to state plans 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually. For the 
namely Employee’s State Insurance Fund and 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
Employee’s Pension Scheme 1995. The Company has 
those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
no further payment obligation once the contributions have 
from the business combination in which the goodwill 
been paid.
arose. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss 
is allocated to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill. 
Any impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not 
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in 
reversed in subsequent periods.
respect of defined benefit gratuity plan is the present 
value of the defined obligation at the end of the reporting 
period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuaries 
Items included in the financial statements of the 
using the projected unit credit method. The amount is 
Company are measured using the currency of the 
funded to a Gratuity fund administered by the trustees of 
primary economic environment in which the entity 
'M/s. Wendt (India) Limited Employees Group Gratuity 
operate (i.e. the "functional currency"). The financial 
Trust' and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of 
statements are presented in Indian Rupee (INR), the 
India.
national currency for India, which is the functional and 
presentation currency of the company.
(a) Rounding Off
(b) Goodwill
(d) Employee benefits
i)  Long Term Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Plans
Defined Benefit Plan
(c) Foreign currency transactions
195
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gain and losses 
arising from experience adjustments and changes in 
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the period in 
currently payable and deferred tax. Income tax expense 
which they occur directly in other comprehensive income. 
is recognized in the statement of profit and loss except to 
They are included in retained earnings in the statement of 
the extent it relates to items directly recognized in equity 
changes in equity and in the Balance Sheet. Defined 
or in other comprehensive income.
benefit costs are categorised as follows :
•  service cost (including current service cost, past 
service cost, as well as gains and losses on 
Current income tax for the current and prior periods are 
curtailments and settlements);
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from 
•  net interest expense or income;
or paid to the taxation authorities based on the taxable 
•  remeasurement
income for the period. The tax rates and tax laws used to 
compute the current tax amount are those that are 
enacted by the reporting date and applicable for the 
period. The Company offsets current tax assets and 
current tax liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable 
The Company also has liabilities for earned leave that are 
right to set off the recognized amounts and where it 
not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after 
intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the 
the end of the period in which the employees render the 
asset and liability simultaneously.
related service. These obligations are therefore 
measured as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided by 
Deferred tax is recognized using the Balance Sheet 
employees up to the end of the reporting period using the 
approach. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted 
recognized for deductible and taxable temporary 
using the appropriate market yields at the end of the 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and 
reporting period that have terms approximating to the 
liabilities and their carrying amount in financial 
terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements as a 
statements. However, the deferred tax liabilities are not 
result of experience adjustments and changes in 
recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Statement of 
goodwill or from initial recognition of an asset or liability in 
profit or loss.
a transaction that is not a business combination and 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profits or losses at 
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the 
the time of the transaction.
balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional 
right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after 
Deferred tax asset are recognized to the extent that it is 
the reporting period, regardless of when the actual 
probable that taxable profit will be available against 
settlement is expected to occur.
which the deductible temporary differences, and the 
carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax 
Termination benefits are recognized as an expense as 
losses can be utilized.
and when incurred.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable 
temporary differences.
Short term employee benefits including performance 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed 
incentives which are expected to be settled within 12 
at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is 
months after the end of the period in which the employee 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be 
renders related service, are determined as per 
available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax 
Company's policy and recognized as expense based on 
asset to be utilized.
expected obligation on undiscounted basis.
e) Taxation
i)  Current tax
Other Long Term Employee Benefits - 
Compensated Absences
ii)  Deferred tax
ii)  Short-term employee benefits 
196
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the period when the 
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment has 
asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax 
been provided on the straight-line method as above 
rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
based on technical advice, taking into account the 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, 
the operating conditions of the asset, past history of 
replacement, anticipated technological changes, 
Goods and Services Tax (GST) credit on materials 
manufacturers warranties and maintenance support, 
purchased / services availed for production / input 
etc.
services are taken into account at the time of purchase 
and availing services. GST Credit on purchase of capital 
Depreciation on assets added / disposed off during the 
goods wherever applicable are taken into account as and 
year is provided on pro-rata basis from the month of 
when the assets are acquired. The GST credits so 
addition or up to the month prior to the month of 
availed are utilised for payment of GST on outward 
disposal, as applicable.
supply and service. Theunutilised GST credit is carried 
Individual assets costing less than Rs.5,000 each are 
forward in the books.
depreciated in full in the year of acquisition.
An item of property, plant and equipment is 
The cost of Property, Plant and equipment comprises its 
derecognised upon disposal or when no future 
purchase price net of any trade discounts and rebates, 
economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
any import duties and other taxes (other than those 
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
subsequently recoverable from the tax authorities), any 
the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant 
directly attributable expenditure on making the asset 
and equipment is determined as the difference between 
ready for its intended use, other incidental expenses 
the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
and interest on borrowings attributable to acquisition of 
and is recognised in the Statement of profit or loss.
qualifying tangible assets up to the date the asset is 
ready for its intended use. Machinery spares which can 
be used exclusively  in connection with an item of 
Property, plant and equipment and whose use is 
expected to be irregular are capitalised and depreciated 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are 
over the useful life of the principal item of the relevant 
acquired separately are carried at cost less 
assets. Subsequent costs are included in the asset's 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
carrying amount are recognised as a separate asset, as 
impairment losses, if any.   The estimated useful life 
appropriate only when it is probable that future 
and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of 
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to 
each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in 
the Company and the cost of the item can be measured 
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.  
reliably. The carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is derecognised 
when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are 
charged to profit or loss during the reporting period in 
which they are incurred.
At the end of each reporting period, the Company 
reviews the carrying amounts of its Property, plant and 
Items of assets which are not yet ready for their intended 
equipment and intangible assets to determine whether 
use are carried at cost, comprising direct cost, related 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
incidental expenses and attributable interest, if 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the 
any.
recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order 
to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 
Depreciation
iii)  Indirect taxes
f)
Property, Plant and equipment
(g) Intangible assets
Intangible assets (acquired)
(h) Impairment of Property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets other 
than goodwill
Capital work-in-progress
197
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable 
amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
deposits held at call with financial institutions, other 
which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and 
short term, highly liquid investments with maturity of 3 
consistent basis of allocation can be identified, 
months or less that are readily convertible into known 
corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-
amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the 
insignificant risk of changes in values, and bank 
smallest group of cash-generating units for which a 
reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be 
overdrafts.
identified.
Statement of Cash flows are reported using the indirect 
Recoverable amount is higher of fair value less cost of 
method, whereby profit for the period is adjusted for the 
disposal and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
receipts or payments and item of income or expenses 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
associated with investing or financing cash flows. The 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
cash flows from operating, investing and financing 
estimates of future cash flows have not been 
activities of the Company are segregated.
adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a 
generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a results of 
amount, the carrying amount of the asset(or cash-
a past event, it is probable that the Company will be 
generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate 
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Statement of profit or loss.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best 
Such assets, that suffered an impairment, are reviewed 
estimate of the consideration required to settle present 
for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of 
obligation at the end of reporting period, taking into 
each reporting period.
account the risk and uncertainties surrounding the 
obligation.  When a provision is measured using the 
cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
Inventories are valued  at lower of cost and net 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows 
realizable value.  Cost of raw materials, stores and 
(when the effect of the time value of money is 
spares and traded goods comprises cost of purchases. 
material).
Cost of work-in-progress and finished goods comprises 
direct materials, direct labour, and an appropriate 
When some or all of the economic benefits required to 
proportion of overheads. Cost of inventories also 
settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a 
include all other costs incurred in bringing the 
third party,  a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is 
inventories to the present location and condition. Cost is 
virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and  
computed on weighted average basis.
the amount of receivable can be measured 
reliably.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price for inventories less the estimated costs of 
A disclosure for contingent liabilities is made where 
completion and estimated costs necessary to make the 
there is a possible obligation or a present obligation that 
sale.
may probably not require an outflow of resources or 
where there is an an obligation for which the future 
Provisions are made for potential obsolescence based 
outcome cannot be ascertained with reasonable 
on management assessment of aged inventory items. 
(j)
Cash and cash equivalents
(k) Provisions and Contingencies
(i)
Inventories
198
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
certainty. When there is a possible or a present 
•  the asset is held within business model whose 
objective is to hold assets in order to collect 
obligation where the likelihood of outflow of resources is 
contractual cash flows; and
remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
Contingent assets are not recognized in the financial 
 • the contractual terms of the instruments give rise on 
statements.
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
Financial assets are presented as current assets, 
except for those maturing later than 12 months after the 
when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
reporting date which are presented as non-current 
provision of the instruments.
assets. Financial assets are measured initially at fair 
Financial assets (excluding trade receivables which do 
value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried 
not contain a significant financing component) and 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
less any impairment loss.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
For the impairment policy on financial assets measured 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial 
at amortised cost, refer Note 43(m)(iii)
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to 
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are 
or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or 
subsequently measured at fair value through other 
financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
comprehensive income (except for financial assets that 
Transactions costs directly attributable to the 
are designated as fair value through profit or loss on 
acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at 
initial recognition) :
fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
 • the asset is held within a business model whose 
immediately in the Statement of profit or loss.
objective is achieved both by collecting contractual 
cash flows and selling financial assets; and
•  the contractual terms of the instruments give rise on 
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales 
and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
of financial assets that require delivery of assets within 
the time frame established by regulation or convention 
in the market place.
All recognised financial assets are subsequently 
measured in their entirety at either amortized cost or fair 
FVTPL is a residual category for financial assets. Any 
value, depending on the classification of the financial 
financial categorisation which is not at amortised cost or 
assets.
as FVTOCI, is classified at FVTPL. In addition, the 
Company may elect to designate the financial asset, 
which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVTOCI 
criteria, at FVTPL, if doing so eliminates or significantly 
Financial Assets that meet the following conditions are 
reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency.
subsequently measured at amortised cost (except for 
financial assets that are designated as fair value 
through profit or loss on initial recognition) :
(l)
Financial Instruments
(m) Financial assets
(ii) Financial assets at fair value through 
Profit or loss (FVTPL)
(i)   Classification of financial assets
199
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
The Company measures the loss allowance for a 
services provided to the Company prior to the end of the 
financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime 
financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are 
expected credit losses if the credit risk on that financial 
unsecured and are usually paid within 60 days of 
instrument has increased significantly since initial 
recognition based on the agreed credit period. Trade 
recognition. If the credit risk on a financial instrument  
and other payables are presented as current liabilities 
has not increased significantly since initial recognition, 
unless payment is not due within 12 months after the 
the Company measures the loss allowance for that 
reporting period. They are recognised initially at their 
financial instruments at an amount equal to 12 month 
transaction price and subsequently measured at 
expected credit losses. 12 month expected credit losses 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, if 
are portion of the lifetime expected credit losses and 
applicable.
represents the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if 
default occurs within the 12 months after the reporting 
date and thus, are not cash shortfalls that are predicted 
over the 12 months.
(iii) Impairment of financial assets
(n) Trade and other payables
Note 44 - Approval of Standalone Financial Statements
The Standalone Financial Statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on April 23, 2025.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number : 217038
Sridharan Rangarajan
Director
DIN:01814413
Place : Chennai
Ninad Gadgil
Executive Director & CEO
DIN: 08707884
Place : Hosur
Place 
Date 
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Chief Financial Officer
Place : Hosur
Arjun Raj P
Company Secretary
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
: Bengaluru
: April 23, 2025
Date : April 23, 2025
199
Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Statement of Holding Company's Interest in Subsidiary Company
st 
* Computed based on the exchange rates as on 31 March 2025 (Thai Baht Rs. 2.5345)
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Sridharan Rangarajan
Director                                                                                           
DIN: 01814413
Place: Chennai                                                                                 
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Chief Financial Officer
Place : Hosur
Ninad Gadgil
Executive Director & CEO
DIN: 08707884
Place : Hosur
Arjun Raj P
Company Secretary
Membership Number : A30324
Place: Chennai
1 
Name of the Company 
Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd
st
2 
The Financial year of the Subsidiary ended on
31  March 2025
3 
a
i) Number of ordinary shares held by Wendt (India) Ltd in the Subsidiary 
                   1,02,99,993
Company on the above date
    Face Value        Paid up value
ii) Face value and paid up value per share
    Thai Baht 10 - Thai Baht 2.50
iii) Interest of Wendt (India) Ltd
                       99.99%
b
i) Number of Preference  shares held by Wendt (India) Ltd in the Subsidiary 
                          —
Company on the above date
ii) Face value and paid up value per share
                          —
iii) Interest of Wendt (India) Ltd
                          —
                   Rs in lakhs
4 
The Net aggregate profit/loss of subsidiary Company so far as it concerns 
the holding Company 
i) Not dealt with in the accounts of Wendt (India) Ltd
a) For the Subsidiary 's Financial year ended 31st March 2025*
                                                144
b) For the previous financial years of the Subsidiary since it became a subsidiary 
                                              3825
of Wendt (India) Ltd
ii) Dealt with in the accounts of Wendt (India) Ltd, by way of Dividends on 
the shares held in the subsidiary 
st
a) For the Subsidiary 's Financial year ended 31  March 2025
                                                    -   
b) For the previous financial years of the Subsidiary since it became a subsidiary                                                      2423
of Wendt (India) Ltd
Date : April 23, 2025
201
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
202
Annual Report 2024-25
This Page has been 
Intentionally 
Left Blank
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
203
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
204
Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Wendt (India) Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Opinion
1.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Wendt (India) Limited (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiary (Holding Company and its subsidiary together referred to as “the Group”), 
(refer Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 
2025, and the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the 
consolidated financial statements, including material accounting policy information and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
2.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state 
of affairs of the Group, as at March 31, 2025, and consolidated total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and 
other comprehensive income), consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for opinion
3.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in India in terms of the Code of Ethics 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
4.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
1. Appropriateness of revenue recognition on sale 
of goods
Refer Note 22 (Revenue from contract with customers) of 
the consolidated financial statements.
The Holding Company’s revenue principally comprises 
sale of goods. Revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised at a point in time when the control of the goods 
is transferred to the customers, which is on dispatch or 
delivery in accordance with the terms of sales contracts, 
and there are no unfulfilled obligations that could affect 
the customer’s acceptance of the products.
We have identified the recognition of revenue as a key 
audit matter as the Holding Company has various 
customers with different terms of sales contracts which 
increase the risk of error in the timing of revenue 
recognition. Revenue recognition is determined to be an 
area involving significant risk and hence requiring 
significant auditor attention. The Holding Company and its 
external stakeholders focus on revenue as a key 
performance indicator and therefore there could be a risk 
of material misstatement in so far as revenue recognition 
is concerned.
Key Audit Matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Our audit procedures relating to revenue recognition 
included the following:
a.
Understood and performed procedures to assess the 
design and test the operating effectiveness of 
management’s key internal financial controls in 
relation to revenue recognition.
b.
Assessed the appropriateness of the revenue 
recognition accounting policies of the Holding 
Company, by evaluating compliance with the Ind AS 
115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’.
c.
Tested the reconciliation of the amounts as per the 
sales register to the general ledger; and the 
reconciliation items on a sample basis.
d.
Selected samples of revenue transactions during the 
year and inspected underlying documents which 
inter-alia included invoices, customer contracts or 
orders and shipping documents or customers’ 
acceptance, as applicable, to determine the revenue 
recognised in accordance with the terms of sales 
contracts.
e.
Tested selected samples of revenue transactions 
recorded before and after the financial year end date 
to determine whether the revenue has been 
recognised in accordance with the terms of the sales 
contracts, in the appropriate financial period.
f.
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements 
in respect of revenue recognition.
205
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
 2. Appropriateness of capitalisation of an 
intangible asset acquired during the year
Refer Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 
During the year, the Holding Company incurred Rs. 3,508 
Lakhs towards the acquisition of a Trademark from Wendt 
GmbH, an entity having significant influence over the 
Holding Company, which has been capitalised as an 
intangible asset in the books of account.
The capitalisation of the cost of acquisition of the 
Trademark has been determined to be a key audit matter 
due to the judgement exercised by the management in 
assessing whether the recognition criteria under Ind AS 
38 “Intangible Assets” had been met and in determining 
the estimated useful life over which the Trademark is 
expected to generate future economic benefits including 
key assumptions such as discount rate and expected 
growth rate of revenue from operations considered in the 
future cash flow projections.
Key Audit Matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Our audit procedures relating to the accounting for 
Trademark as an intangible asset included the following:
•
Understood the design and evaluated the operating 
effectiveness of the internal financial controls around 
capitalisation of intangible assets.
•
Evaluated the commercial substance of the 
transaction and management’s process of assessing 
the reasonableness of the transaction price, including 
obtaining the approvals from the Board of Directors, 
Audit Committee and Shareholders.
•
Perused the valuation report obtained by the 
management from an external professional services 
firm (“management’s expert”) and evaluated the 
independence, competence, capabilities and 
objectivity of the management’s expert.
•
Along with the involvement of auditors’ experts:
o
Assessed appropriateness of the valuation 
model used by the management’s expert; 
o
Evaluated reasonableness of the projections by 
assessing the key assumptions such as discount 
rate, growth rate, etc. used in the preparation of 
the projections and determining the estimated 
useful life of the Trademark; and
o
Tested the projected future cash flows and 
assessed whether those were consistent with our 
knowledge and understanding of the Company’s 
business.
•
Checked mathematical accuracy of the computations 
in the model.
•
Performed a sensitivity analysis in relation to key 
assumptions. 
•
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
206
Annual Report 2024-25
Other information
5.
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Report of the Directors, Management Discussion and Analysis Report, Report on Corporate 
Governance and Business Responsibility and Sustainability report but does not include the consolidated financial 
statements and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work 
we have performed and the report of the other auditor as furnished to us (Refer paragraph 14 below), we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the consolidated financial statements
6.
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
financial statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial 
position, consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash flows, and changes in equity of the Group in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
7.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either 
intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
8.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of the Group.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements
9.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
10. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•
207
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities 
within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of the Holding Company of which we are the 
independent auditors. For the subsidiary included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited 
by other auditor, such other auditor remains responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
11. We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
12. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other matter
14. The financial statements of the subsidiary located outside India, included in the consolidated financial statements, which 
constitute total assets of Rs. 2,964 lakhs and net assets of Rs. 2,684 lakhs as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of Rs. 
2,154 lakhs, profit of Rs. 138 lakhs, total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other comprehensive income) 
of Rs. 138 lakhs and net cash flows amounting to Rs. 175 lakhs for the year then ended, have been prepared in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in its country of incorporation and has been audited by another 
auditor under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in the country of incorporation. The Holding Company’s 
management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiary located outside India, from the accounting 
principles generally accepted in its country of incorporation to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have 
audited these conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s management. Our opinion insofar as it relates to 
the balances and affairs of the subsidiary located outside India, including other information, is based on the reports of the 
other auditor and the conversion adjustments prepared by the management of the Holding Company and audited by us. 
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on ‘Other legal and regulatory requirements’ below, 
is not modified in respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and the report of the other 
auditor.
•
•
•
•
•
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
208
Annual Report 2024-25
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
15.This report does not contain a statement on the matter specified in paragraph 3 (xxi) of‘ the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 
2020’(
(“CARO 2020”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 
143 
of 
the 
Act 
as, 
in 
our 
opinion, 
and 
according 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations 
given 
to 
us, 
there 
are 
no 
qualifications 
or adverse remarks included in the CARO 2020 report issued in respect of the standalone financial statements of the 
Holding 
Company 
which 
is 
included 
in 
these 
consolidated 
financial 
statements. 
Further, 
according 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us, 
CARO 2020 is not applicable to the subsidiary incorporated outside India, 
included in these 
consolidated 
financial 
statements.
16.As 
required 
by 
Section 
143(3) 
of 
the 
Act, 
we 
report, 
to 
the 
extent 
applicable, 
that:
(a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were 
necessary 
for 
the 
purposes 
of 
our 
audit 
of 
the 
aforesaid 
consolidated 
financial 
statements.
(b) In our opinion, 
proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the report of the 
other auditor except for the matters stated in paragraph 16(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies 
(Audit 
and 
Auditors) 
Rules, 
2014 
(as 
amended).
(c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt 
with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account and records maintained for the purpose of 
preparation 
of 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements.
(d) In our opinion, 
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards 
specified 
under 
Section 
133 
of 
the 
Act.
(e) On 
the 
basis 
of 
the 
written 
representations 
received 
from 
the 
directors 
of 
the 
Holding 
Company 
as 
on 
March 
31, 
2025 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, 
none of the directors of the Holding Company, 
incorporated in India, 
is disqualified as on March 31, 
2025, 
from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) 
of 
the 
Act.
(f) With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, 
reference is made to our 
remarks in paragraph 16(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 16(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under 
Rule 
11(g) 
of 
the 
Companies 
(Audit 
and 
Auditors) 
Rules, 
2014 
(as 
amended). 
(g)With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the 
Group 
and 
the 
operating 
effectiveness 
of 
such 
controls, 
refer 
to 
our 
separate 
report 
in 
“Annexure 
A”.
(h)With 
respect 
to 
the 
other 
matters 
to 
be 
included 
in 
the 
Auditors’ Report 
in 
accordance 
with 
Rule 
11 
of 
the 
Companies 
(Audit 
and 
Auditors) 
Rules, 
2014 
(as 
amended), 
in 
our 
opinion 
and 
to 
the 
best 
of 
our 
information 
and 
according 
to 
the 
explanations 
given 
to 
us:
i. There 
were 
no 
pending 
litigations 
which 
would 
impact 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
position 
of 
the 
Group.
ii.The 
Group 
was 
not 
required 
to 
recognise 
a 
provision 
as 
at 
March 
31, 
2025 
under 
the 
applicable 
law 
or 
accounting 
standards, 
as it does not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts. 
The Group did not have 
any 
derivative 
contracts 
as 
at 
March 
31, 
2025.
iii.There has been no delay in transferring amounts required to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection 
Fund 
by 
the 
Holding 
Company 
incorporated 
in 
India 
during 
the 
year.
209
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
iv.(a) 
The management of the Holding Company which is incorporated in India whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act has represented to us that, 
to the best of their knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed 
in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either 
from 
borrowed 
funds 
or 
share 
premium 
or 
any 
other 
sources 
or 
kind 
of 
funds) 
by 
the 
Holding 
Company 
to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediaries shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, 
lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries. 
(Refer 
Note 
40(vi)(
a) 
to 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements).
(b) 
The management of the Holding Company which is incorporated in India whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act has represented to us that, 
to the best of their knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed 
in 
the 
Notes 
to 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, 
no 
funds 
have 
been 
received 
by 
the 
Company 
from 
any 
person(s) 
or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, 
whether 
recorded 
in 
writing 
or 
otherwise, 
that 
the 
Holding 
Company 
shall, 
whether 
directly 
or 
indirectly, 
lend 
or 
invest 
in 
other 
persons 
or 
entities 
identified 
in 
any 
manner 
whatsoever 
by 
or 
on 
behalf 
of 
the 
Funding 
Parties 
(“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (
Refer 
Note 
40(vi)(
b) 
to 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements).
(c)Based on the audit procedures, 
that has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
performed by us on the Holding Company which is incorporated in India whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations 
under 
sub-clause 
(a) 
and 
(b) 
contain 
any 
material 
misstatement.
v.The 
dividend 
declared 
and 
paid 
by 
the 
Holding 
Company 
during 
the 
year 
is 
in 
compliance 
with 
Section 
123 
of 
the 
Act.
vi.Based on our examination, 
which included test checks the Holding Company has used an accounting software 
for maintaining their books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility and that has 
operated 
throughout 
the 
year 
for 
all 
relevant 
transactions 
recorded 
in 
the 
software 
except 
that 
the 
audit 
trail 
is 
not 
maintained at the application level for modification, 
if any, 
by certain users with specific access and direct 
database 
changes. 
During 
the 
course 
of 
our 
audit, 
except 
for 
the 
aforesaid 
instance 
of 
audit 
trail 
not 
maintained 
at 
application and database level, 
where the question of our commenting on whether the audit trail feature being 
tampered with does not arise, 
we did not notice any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with. 
Further, 
the audit trail has been preserved by the Holding Company as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention. 
17.The Holding Company has provided for managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated 
by 
the 
provisions 
of 
Section 
197 
read 
with 
Schedule 
V 
to 
the 
Act.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number: 217038
UDIN: 25217038BMMLXJ5864
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 23, 2025
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
210
Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 16(g) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
Members of Wendt (India) Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for 
the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to consolidated financial statements under clause (i) of 
sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March 
31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Wendt (India) Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) as of that date. Reporting under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 
143 of the Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is not 
applicable to the Holding Company’s subsidiary incorporated outside India namely Wendt Grinding Technologies 
Limited. 
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2.
The Board of Directors of the Holding Company, to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is applicable, is 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence to the Holding Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ responsibility
3.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company's internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the 
Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
5.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls system with reference to financial statements.
211
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements
6.
A company's internal financial control with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal financial control 
with reference to financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements
7.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to financial statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.
In our opinion, the Holding Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with 
reference to financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to financial statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by 
the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number: 217038
UDIN: 25217038BMMLXJ5864
Place: Bengaluru
Date: April 23, 2025
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
|
212
Annual Report 2024-25
This Page has been 
Intentionally 
Left Blank
213
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Director
Executive Director & CEO
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Place : Bengaluru
Date :  April 23, 2025
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
Membership Number : 217038
Partner
The above Consolidated Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in
our report of even date.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note
As at March 31,
2025
As at March 31,
2024
Particulars
A
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
(a) Property, plant and equipment 
3A
6,442 
5,817
(b) Right-of-use assets
3B
35 
-
(c) Capital work-in-progress
4
 980 
227
(d) Goodwill 
5
 10 
 10
(e) Other intangible assets 
6
 3,538 
 21
(f)   Financial Assets
(i) Other financial assets
13
 68 
 59
(g) Other non-current assets 
7
551
 588 
(h) Current tax assets (net)
8A
 45 
 200
Total non - current assets (1) 
 11,669 
 6,922 
2
Current assets 
(a) Inventories
9
 3,748 
 3,595 
(b) Financial assets
(i) Investments
10
 5,157 
 7,345 
(ii) Trade receivables
11
 6,835 
 5,352 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
12A
 1,833 
 1,780 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above
12B
 26 
 24 
(v) Other financial assets
13
 78 
 84 
(c) Other current assets
7
 734 
 473 
Total current assets (2) 
 18,411 
 18,653 
Total assets (1+2)
30,080 
 25,575 
B
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity 
(a) Equity share capital
14
 200 
 200 
(b) Other equity - reserves and surplus
15
 24,169 
 21,011 
Total equity (1)
24,369 
 21,211
Liabilities
2
Non-current liabilities
(a) Deferred tax liabilities (net)
16
 179 
 151
(b) Financial Liabilities - Lease liabilities
3B
 19 
 -   
Total non - current liabilities (2)
 
198 
151 
3
Current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
17
 120 
 -   
(ii) Lease liabilities
3B
 19 
 -   
(iii) Trade payables
- total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
18
 354 
 223 
- total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
  micro and small enterprises
18
 2,747 
 2,304 
(iv) Other financial liabilities
19
 725 
 396 
(b) Provisions
20
 787 
 694 
(c) Current tax liabilities (net)
8B
 94 
 17 
(d) Other current liabilities
21
 667 
 579 
Total current liabilities (3)
 5,513 
 4,213 
Total liabilities (2+3)
 5,711 
 4,364 
Total equity and liabilities (1+2+3)
 30,080 
 25,575 
214
Annual Report 2024-25
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Place : Bengaluru
Date :  April 23, 2025
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Director
Executive Director & CEO
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
Membership Number : 217038
Partner
The above Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
referred to in our report of even date.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Particulars
INCOME
1
Revenue from operations
22
 23,372 
 22,683 
2
Other income
23
 876 
 712 
3
Total income (1 + 2)
 24,248 
 23,395 
4
EXPENSES
(a) Cost of materials consumed
 6,945 
 6,887 
(b) Purchases of stock-in-trade
 1,602 
 1,436 
(c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress
24
 (104)
 (121)
and stock-in-trade
(d) Employee benefits expense
25
 4,223 
 3,866 
(e) Finance costs
26
5
 0 
(f) Depreciation and amortisation expense
27
 1,007 
 855 
(g) Other expenses
28
 5,447 
 5,051 
Total Expenses
 19,125 
 17,974 
5
Profit before tax (3 - 4)
5,123 
 5,421 
6
Tax Expense
(a) Current tax
29
 1,129 
 1,315 
(b) Deferred tax charge / (credit)
29
 46 
 11 
Total tax expense
 
1,175 
 1,326 
7
Profit for the year  (5 - 6)
 3,948 
 4,095 
8
Other comprehensive income
A
Items that will not be reclassified  to profit or loss
(i) Remeasurements of the defined benefit obligation
33
 (73)
 (109)
(ii) Income tax relating to the above
18 
 27 
B
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
(i) Exchange differences in translating the financial    
 
265 
 (73)
   
    statements of foreign operations
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
210 
 (155)
9
Total comprehensive income for the year (7+8)
4,158 
 3,940 
10
Earnings per equity share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs.10 each):
35
(1) Basic
 
197.43 
 204.77 
(2) Diluted
 197.43 
 204.77 
Year ended
March 31, 2024
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
215
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
(A) Equity Share Capital
Balance as at April 1, 2023
200
Add: Changes in equity share capital during the current year
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
200
Add: Changes in equity share capital during the current year
                          -   
Balance as at March 31, 2025
200
                      
This Page has been 
Intentionally 
Left Blank
216
Annual Report 2024-25
(B) Other Equity
General
Reserve
Retained
Earnings
Foreign Currency
Translation
Reserve
Balance as at April 1, 2023
       
     
                     
 
Profit for the year
         
 
       
                      
 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of income tax
         
         
                      
 
Total comprehensive income for the year
         
      
                      
 
Payment of final dividend for the preceding financial year
         
    
                      
 
Payment of interim dividend for the current year
         
       
                      
Transfer to General Reserve
         
       
                      
Balance as at March 31, 2024
       
    
                     
Profit for the year
         
      
                      
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of income tax
         
         
                     
Total comprehensive income for the year
         
      
                     
Payment of final dividend for the preceding financial year
         
       
                      
Payment of interim dividend for the current year
Transfer to General Reserve
18,671
4,095
(155)
3,940
(1,000)
(600)
-
21,011
3,948
210
4,158
(400)
(600)
-
Balance as at March 31, 2025
7,332
-
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
395
 
7,727
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
383
8,110
10,815
4,095
(82)
 
4,013
 
(1,000)
 
(600)
 
(395)
 
12,833
 
3,948
 
(55)
 
3,893
 
(400)
 
(600)
(383)
15,343
524
-
(73)
(73)
-
-
-
451
-
265
265
-
-
-
716
24,169
Particulars
Reserves and
surplus
Total
Items of other 
comprehensive
Income
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity referred to in our report of even date.
Membership Number: A30324
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Director
Executive Director & CEO
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Place : Bengaluru
Date :  April 23, 2025
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
Membership Number : 217038
Partner
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
217
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Year ended 
March  31, 2025
Year ended 
March  31, 2024
                    
Particulars
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax
 
5,123 
 5,421 
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 
1,007 
 855 
Loss allowance for trade receivables
 
26 
 15 
Bad Debts written off
 
-   
 1 
Finance costs
5
 0 
Interest income
 
(64)
 (36)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment/Scrapped
 
(7)
 (17)
Net Gain on sale of current investments
 
(613)
 (145)
Net fair value gain on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
(35)
 (355)
Unrealised exchange loss / (gain)
 
57 
 36 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 
5,499 
 5,775 
Changes in working capital :
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
 
(153)
 (180)
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables
 
(1,503)
 (1,332)
(Increase)/Decrease in other bank balances
 
(2)
 3 
(Increase)/Decrease in other current financial assets
6 
 (38)
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-current financial assets
 
(9)
 (6)
(Increase)/Decrease in other current assets
(261)
 (87)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables
 
573 
 164 
Increase/(Decrease) in other current financial liabilities
 
3 
 (80)
Increase/(Decrease) in current provisions
 
20 
 69 
Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities
 
88 
 197
Cash flows generated from operating activities
 
4,261 
 4,485
Income taxes paid (net of refunds)
 
(897)
 (1,504)
Net cash generated from operating activities
(A)
 3,364 
2,981 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
(1,944)
 (1,633)
Purchase of intangible assets
(3,588)
 (12)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment/scrapped 
19 
 39 
Purchase of current investments
(2,373)
 (3,181)
Sale of current investments
5,264 
 3,403 
Interest received 
64 
 44 
Inter corporate deposit matured/(repaid)
-   
 500 
Net cash used in investing activities
(B)
 (2,558)
 (840)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from current borrowings
 120 
 -
Principal payment of lease liabilities
(15)
 -
Interest payment of lease liabilities
(5)
 -
Interest paid
-   
 (0)
Dividend paid
(1,000)
 (1,600)
Net cash used in financing activities
(C)
 (900)
 (1,600)
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
(D)
 147 
 (76)
Net Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(A+B+C+D)
 53 
 465 
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year
(E)
 1,780 
 1,315 
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 
(A+B+C+D+E)
 1,833 
 1,780 
218
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Reconciliation of Cash and cash equivalents as per the Consolidated statement of cash flows
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of the following:
The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
referred to in our report of even date.
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents:
   (a) Balances with banks
         -in current accounts
1,641
                  1,779
   (b) Cheques on hand
191
                     
-
   (c) Cash on hand
1
                         
1
Balance as per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
1,833
1,780
Particulars
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Statement showing the applicable Key Accounting Standards (Ind AS) with related Material accounting Policy 
and Notes references as per Consolidated financial statements
2
Inventories
9
41(j)
7
Statement of Cash flows
12A
41(k)
8
Material accounting Policies
Under respective notes
8
Summary of other accounting Policies
41
8
Changes in accounting Estimates and Errors
2.1 & 2.2
12
Income taxes
8A, 8B & 29
41(f)(i) & (ii)
16
Property, plant and equipment
3,4 & 27
41(g)
19
Employee benefits
25 & 33
41(e)
24
Related party disclosures
34
33
Earnings per share
35
36
Impairment of assets
3, 4 & 6
41(i)
37
Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets
20 & 36
41(l)
38
Intangible assets
6 & 27
41(h)
107
Financial instruments - Disclosures
11, 13,17, 18, 23 & 30
41(m) & 41(n)
108
Operating segments
31
110
Consolidated Financial Statements
2.1
113
Fair value measurement
30
115
Revenue from contracts with Customers
21, 22 & 31
116
Leases
3B & 32
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Sridharan Rangarajan
Ninad Gadgil
Director
Executive Director & CEO
DIN:01814413
DIN: 08707884
Place : Chennai
Place : Hosur
Place : Bengaluru
Date :  April 23, 2025
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Arjun Raj P
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Place : Hosur
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
Membership Number : 217038
Partner
Other Accounting 
Policy Reference
Note & Material Accounting 
Policy Reference
Ind AS
No.
Description
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  FOR THE YEAR ENDED
MARCH 31, 2025
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
219
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
1
GROUP OVERVIEW
2.1 Basis of Preparation and Presentation
2.2Critical estimates and judgements
(iii) Historical Cost Convention 
These Consolidated financial statements have 
Wendt (India) Limited (hereinafter referred to as "the 
been prepared on the historical cost basis, 
Company") was incorporated on August 21, 1980 
except for certain financial instruments which are 
under the provisions of the erstwhile Companies 
measured at fair values at the end of each 
Act,1956, and is a joint venture  between Wendt 
reporting period. Historical cost is generally based on 
GmbH  Germany and Carborundum Universal 
the fair value of the consideration given in exchange 
Limited, India. The Company is into manufacturing, 
for goods and services. Fair value is the price that 
selling and servicing of Super Abrasives, High 
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
precision Grinding, Honing, Special Purpose 
liability in an orderly transaction between market 
Machines and High Precision components. The 
participants at the measurement date.
Company's registered office is in Bangalore and 
factory is situated in Hosur, Tamilnadu. The 
(iv) Operating Cycle
Company has one subsidiary viz. Wendt Grinding 
Based on the nature of products / activities of the 
Technologies Limited, Thailand. Wendt Grinding 
Group and the normal time between acquisition of 
Technlogies Limited is into Re-profiling of grinding 
assets and their realization in cash or cash 
wheels and trading of Superabrasive and other 
equivalents, the Group has determined its operating 
products.The Company, together with subsidiary are 
cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current and 
hereinafter referred to as "the Group". The Company 
non-current classification of its assets and liabilities.
Identification Number (CIN) of the Company is 
L85110KA1980PLC003913.
(v) New and amended standards adopted by the 
Group
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had vide notification 
(i)
Basis of Consolidation
dated September 9, 2024 and September 28, 2024 
Following subsidiary company have been 
notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
included in Consolidation:-
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024 and 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Third 
(i) Wendt Grinding Technologies Limited, 
th
Amendment Rules, 2024, respectively, which 
Thailand (incorporated on 19  July 2005) 
amended/ notified certain accounting standards (see 
99.99% Ownership Proportion (as on March  
below), and are effective for annual reporting periods 
31,  2025 & as on March 31, 2024)
beginning on or after April 1, 2024:
(ii) Compliance with Ind AS
(i) Lease liability in Sale and Leaseback - 
The Consolidated financial statements have 
Amendments to Ind AS 116; and
been prepared in accordance with Indian 
(ii) Insurance contracts - Ind AS 117
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) 
These amendments did not have any material impact 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions of the 
not expected to significantly affect the current or 
Act.
future periods. 
These Consolidated financial statements have 
been presented in Indian Rupees (Rs.) 
lakhs except for share and per share data and 
The preparation of these Consolidated financial 
unless otherwise stated
statements requires the use of accounting estimates 
220 
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 3A - Property, plant and equipment
Accounting Policy
Depreciation
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost. All other items of Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less 
accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets (other than freehold land and capital 
work-in-progress), net of their residual values over their useful lives. The estimated useful lives, residual value and 
depreciation method are reviewed  at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted 
for on a prospective basis.
Buildings - Freehold
      (i)   Factory Building                                                           
30 years
      (ii)  Building (Other than factory building)                           
60 years
Plant and Machinery
      (i)   Single Shift                                                                  
15 years
      (ii)  Double Shift                                                                
10 years
      (iii) Triple Shift                                                                  
7.5 years
Office Equipment
      (i)   Computers and Data Processing equipments                 
3 years
      (ii)   Servers and Networks                                                 
6 years
      (iii)  Others                                                                         
5 years
Furniture and Fittings                                                             
10 years
Vehicles                                                                                    
8 years
Estimated useful lives of the property, plant and equipment as considered by the company, which are in line
with those specified  under Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, are as follows:-
Refer Notes 42(g) and 42(i) on other accounting policies. 
which, by definition, seldom equals the actual results. 
The areas involving critical estimates or judgements 
Management also needs to exercise judgement in 
are:
applying the Group's accounting policies. This note 
(i) Estimation of defined benefit obligation - refer Note 
provides an overview of the areas that involved 
33
higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of 
(ii)Estimation of Useful life for amortization of Trade 
items which are more likely to be materially adjusted 
mark - refer Note 6
due to estimates and assumptions turning out to be 
different than those originally assessed. Detailed 
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. 
information about each of these estimates and 
They are based on historical experience and other 
judgements is included in the relevant notes together 
factors, including expectations of future events that 
with information about the basis of calculation for 
may have a financial impact on the Group and that are 
each affected line item in the consolidated financial 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
221
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Particulars
Land - 
Freehold
Buildings - 
Freehold
Plant and 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Furniture and 
Fittings
Motor 
Vehicles 
Total
I. Gross Block
Balance as at April 1, 2023
126
2,665
11,514
1,016
304
225
15,850
Additions
                -                  82              898                34 
38
16
1,068
Disposals
                -                   (6)             (184)                 (6)
(10)
                 
(28)
             
(234)
Effect of foreign currency translation from functional 
currency to reporting currency
                 0                  1                25 
2                    -                    0 
28
Balance as at March 31, 2024
             126           2,742         12,253           1,046                 332              213 
16,712
Balance as at April 1, 2024
126
             
2,742
          
12,253
        
1,046
          
332
                
213
            
16,712
Additions
                -                125           1,164              169                   14 
67
              
1,539
Disposals
                -                   -                 (63)               (96)                  (11)
(56)
             
(226)
Effect of foreign currency translation from functional 
currency to reporting currency
13                38                21                  1                    -   
10                83 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
139
             
2,905
          
13,375
        
1,120
          
335
                
234
            
18,108
II.  Accumulated depreciation 
Balance as at April 1, 2023
                -   
1,111
          
7,749
          
979
             
256                
157
            
10,252
Depreciation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
                -   
95
               
685
             
30
               
15                  
17
              
842
Eliminated on disposal of assets
                -   
(3)
                
(179)
            
(6)
                
(10)
                 
(15)
             
(213)
Effect of foreign currency translation from functional 
currency to reporting currency
                -   
(2)
                
25
               
(7)
                
-
                 
(2)
               
14
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
              
1,201
          
8,280
          
996
             
261
                
157
            
10,895
Balance as at April 1, 2024
                -   
1,201
          
8,280
          
996
             
261
                
157
            
10,895
Depreciation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
                -   
97
               
752
             
41
               
14
                  
13
              
917
Eliminated on disposal of assets
                -                   -   
(63)
(96)
(11)
(44)
(214)
Effect of foreign currency translation from functional 
currency to reporting currency
                -                  36                20                  2 
-
               10 
68
Balance as at March 31, 2025
                -   
1,334
8,989
943
264
136
11,666
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2024
126
1,541
3,973
50
71
56
5,817
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2025
139
1,571
4,386
177
71
98
6,442
Note : Refer to Note 36.1 (a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of Property, plant and equipment.
222
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 3B: Leases (As Lessee)
Accounting Policy
The Company has taken offices premises on 3 years lease period. The lease payments are discounted using the Company's 
incremental borrowing rate, being the rate that the Company would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an 
asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions.
Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available 
for use by the Group.
Right-of-use asset is depreciated over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
i) Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Right-of-use assets
    Building
35
-
35
-
Lease Liabilities
Non-Current
19
-
Current
19
38
-
(ii) Right-of-Use Assets
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2024
-
                      
Additions
54
                       
Termination
-
                      
Depreciation
19
Balance as at March 31, 2025
35
(iii) Lease Liabilities
      Movement of lease liabilities
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2024
-
                      
Additions
54
                       
Termination
-
                      
Finance costs
5
                         
Payment of lease liabilities
(21)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
38
(iv)  Additions to the right-of-use assets during the year were Rs. 54 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Rs.Nil).
-
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
223
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Year ended
Year ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets
27
19
-                       
Interest expense (included in finance costs)
26
5
-                       
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in 
Rent - other expenses)
28
1
5
Particulars
Note
(iv) The total cash outflow relating to leases for the year was Rs. 21 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs.Nil).
(v) Extension and Termination options :
Extension options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably 
certain to be extended (or not terminated).
Note 4: Capital work-in-progress (CWIP)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance as at beginning of the year
Addition during the year
Capitalised during the year
Balance as at end of the year 
Note : Capital work-in-progress represents expenditure incurred towards Property, plant and equipment. 
As at March 31, 2025
Projects in progress
875
35
70
-
980
Projects temporarily Suspended
-
              
 
-
              
 
-
              
 
-
              
 
-
As at March 31, 2024
Projects in progress
189
38
0
0
227
Projects temporarily Suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Less than
 1 Year
1 - 2 Years
2-3 Years
More than
3 Years
              
 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
Total
Less than
 1 Year
1 - 2 Years
2-3 Years
More than
3 Years
              
 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for the period of
Total
There are no significant projects whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan as
at end of the year or previous year.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
                       227 
                         176 
                    2,292 
                      1,119 
                  (1,539)
                    (1,068)
                       980 
                         227 
(v)  Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
224
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 5- Goodwill
 A reconciliation of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning and end of the reporting period. 
 Refer Note 42(c) on other accounting policies. 
Note 6 - Other intangible assets
Accounting Policy
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives of intangible assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Cost
Balance as at beginning of year
10
                                     
 
10
Additions
-
                                    
 
-
Disposals
-
                                    
 
-
Balance as at end of year
10
                                     
 
10
Accumulated Impairment
Balance as at beginning of year
-
                                    
 
-
Impairment losses recognised during the year
-
                                    
 
-
Balance as at end of year
-
-
Net Carrying Value
10
10
Refer Notes 42(h) and 42(i) on other accounting policies. 
Technical Knowhow                                                            
5 years
Computer Software                                                           
5 years
Brands and Trademarks                                                     
5/10 years
Patents                                                                             
5 years
Estimated useful lives of the intangible assets are as follows:-
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
225
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Particulars
Technical 
Knowhow
Computer 
Software
Brands and
Trademarks
Patents
Total
Note 6.1
Pursuant to a Trademark assignment agreement with Wendt GmbH, a related party of the Company (investor with significant influence), 
effective Feb 26, 2025 (the date of receipt of shareholders' approval for the transaction), the Company purchased the worldwide right, title and 
interest in a Trademark owned by/ registered in the name Wendt GmbH. The Company paid a consideration of Rs. 3,508 lakhs to acquire the 
above Trademark. 
The Company has estimated the useful life of the Trademark to be 10 years from the effective date based on factors such as useful life 
prevailing in similar industry, period of usage and benchmarking with similar transactions. Accordingly, the above trademark will be amortised 
on a straight line basis over a period of 10 years.
I. Gross Block
Balance as at April 1, 2023
202
375
81
50
 708 
Additions
-
12
-
-
 12 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
202
387
81
50
 720 
Balance as at April 1, 2024
202
387
81
50
 720 
Additions
-
80
3508
-
 3,588 
Disposals
-
-
-
-
 -   
Balance as at March 31, 2025
202
467
3589
50
 4,308 
II.  Accumulated amortisation
Balance as at April 1, 2023
202
354
81
50
 687 
Amortisation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
-
12
-
-
 12 
Eliminated on disposal of assets
-
-
-
-
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
202
366
81
50
 699 
Balance as at April 1, 2024
202
366
81
50
 699 
Amortisation expense for the year (refer Note 27)
-
13
58
-
 71 
Eliminated on disposal of assets
-
-
-
-
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
202
379
139
50
 770 
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2024
 - 
 21 
 -   
 -   
 21 
Net carrying value as at March 31, 2025
 -   
 88 
 3,450 
 -   
 3,538 
226
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 7 - Other assets
Particulars
 Unsecured, considered good 
(a) Advances to suppliers 
333
-
90 
-
(b) Balances with government authorities (other than
income taxes)
(i) Duties refundable
0 
-
0
-
(ii) GST credit receivable
22
-
32
-
(iii) VAT credit receivable
-
-
4
-
(c) Prepayments
309 
-   
211
-
(d) Capital advances (refer Notes (i) & (ii) below)
-
551
-
588
(e) Export incentive receivable
13
-    
19 
-
(f) Contract assets (refer Notes (iii) , (iv) and (v)  below)
39 
 -   
 108 
-
(g) Other advances
18 
 -   
 9 
-
Total 
 
734 
 551 
 473 
 588
 Notes:- 
(i) 
Capital advances include Rs.NIL (March 31, 2024: Rs. 19 lakhs) paid to a related party. (Refer Note 34)
(ii) Capital advances include an amount of Rs. 522 lakhs (2024: Rs.522 lakhs) paid to Karnataka Industrial Area 
Development Board (KIADB) for acquistion of land towards the Company's expansion plan. The Company has obtained 
a letter of allotment and also the possession of land. The Company is in the process of obtaining clearances that will 
enable to execute a lease-cum sale agreement for the above parcel of land. Pending execution of the lease-cum sale 
agreement (that is expected to be converted into a sale deed on fulfillment of conditions thereto), the Company has 
classified the said amount as a capital advance. 
(iii) Contract assets represent amount to be received from customers after installation and commissioning. 
(iv) Contract assets include Rs.Nil (March 31,2024 :Rs. 14 lakhs)  due from a related party.
                                     
                                     
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                     
                                     
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
 As at March 31, 2025 
Current
Current
Non-Current
Non-Current
 As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Balance as at beginning of the year
Obligation fullfiled during the year
Obligation to be fulfilled
Balance as at end of the year 
                                     
 108 
 (108)
 39 
 39 
 -   
 -   
 108 
 108 
(v)   Movement of contract assets :
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
227
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 9 - Inventories
Accounting Policy
Inventories are valued at lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is computed on weighted average basis.
Refer Note 42(j) on other accounting policies
(a) Raw materials
(b) Work-in-progress
(c) Finished goods
(d) Stock-in-trade
(e) Stores and spares
Included above, goods-in-transit:
(i) Raw materials
(ii) Stock-in-trade
Total goods-in-transit
Total
Particulars
As at March 31, 
2025
As at March 31, 
2024
1,895
1,856
772
                     
723
                    
401
                     
436
                    
356
                     
266
                    
324
                     
314
                    
3,748
                  
3,595
                 
116
                     
75
                      
151
63
267
138
Notes :
(a) Provision for inventories, which have either become wholly or partially obsolete (Provision for Obsolescence) or where their 
selling prices have declined below cost (Provision for net realizable value) charged during the year to the Statement of Profit and 
Loss amounted to Rs.76 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 81 lakhs)
(b) Refer Note 17 for information on assets pledged as security against the bank facility (including borrowings) of the Company.
Note 8 - Income tax assets and liabilities
A Income tax assets -non-current
Advance income tax and tax deducted at source (net)
Total
B Income tax liabilities - current
Provision for income tax (net)
Total
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
45
                       
200
                    
45
                       
200
                    
94
                       
17
                      
94
17
Refer Note 42(f) on other accounting policies
                                    
228
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 10 - Investments
Accounting Policy
Investment in Mutual funds [categorised as Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)]
Financial asset at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, with any gains or losses arising on 
remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporate any dividend or 
interest earned on the financial asset and is included under 'Other income'. Dividend on  financial asset at FVTPL is 
recognised when the Group's right to receive the dividends is established. It is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the dividend will flow to the entity, the dividend does not represent a recovery of part of cost of the investment and the 
amount can be measured reliably.
Refer Note 42(n) on other accounting policies 
Units (Nos)
Amount
Units (Nos)
Amount
   
           
       
     
           
         
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
Designated as Fair Value Through Profit and Loss
Investments in Mutual Funds (Unquoted)
1
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund - Growth
 
2,840,407 
 829 
 2,840,407 
 765
2
Aditya Birla Sun Life Short Term Fund - Growth -Regular Plan
 
870,071 
 405 
 870,071 
 374 
3
Aditya Birla Sun Life Low Duration Fund -Growth Regular Plan
 
67,209 
 433 
 67,209 
 404 
4
Aditya Birla Sun Life Floating Rate Fund - Growth Regular Plan  
-   
 -   
 99,117 
 313 
5
Nippon India Floating Rate Fund - Growth Plan - Growth Option
 957,475 
 423 
 1,537,180 
 626 
6
TATA Short Term Bond Fund Regular Plan - Growth
 
295,555 
 139 
 295,555 
 129
7
TATA Short Term Bond Fund Direct Plan - Growth
 
186,618 
 97 
 186,618 
 89 
8
Baroda BNP paribas Short Duration Fund - Regular Growth
 
3,688,473 
 1,053 
 5,241,326 
 1,387 
9
SBI Magnum Low Duration Fund - Regular Growth
 
6,109 
 209 
 6,109 
 195 
10
Inveso India Low Duration Fund - Regular - Growth
 
8,114 
 301 
 8,114 
 280 
11
HDFC Ultra Short Term Fund - Regular Growth 
-   
 -   
 2,103,110 
 291 
12
HDFC Low Duration Fund - Regular Plan Growth
 
492,881 
 279 
 492,881 
 259 
13
Bandhan Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Regular Plan - Growth
 
678,602 
 163 
 678,602 
 152 
14
Tata Money Market Fund Regular Plan - Growth
 
-   
 -   
 1,223 
 53 
15
Baroda BNP paribas ultra short duration fund-direct plan Growth  
-   
 -   
 7,154 
102 
16
Aditya Birla SunLife Corporate Bond Fund - Growth - Regular Plan 
-   
 -   
 251,140 
 255 
17
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund - Growth Plan
 
421,652 
 247 
 421,652 
 228 
18
ABSL CRISIL IBX AAA-Mar 2024 IndexFund Regular  Growth
 
-   
 -   
 7,657,284 
 832 
19
HDFC Corporate bond Fund - Regular Plan Growth
 
-   
-   
 329,149 
 97 
20
UOB Asset Management - Sure Daily  
1,690,855 
 579 
 1,690,855 
 514 
Total Investments carried at FVTPL
 
5,157 
 7,345 
Other disclosures
Aggregate cost of unquoted investments
 
-   
 4,170 
 -   
 6,467 
Aggregate market value of unquoted investments
 
-   
 5,157 
 -   
 7,345 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 
-   
 -   
 -   
 -   
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
229
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Note 11 - Trade receivables
Accounting Policy
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business 
and reflects the Group’s unconditional right to consideration (that is, payment is due only on the passage of time). Trade 
receivables are recognised initially at the transaction price as they do not contain significant financing components. The 
Group holds the trade receivables with the objective of collecting the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them 
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less loss allowance.
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to life time expected 
credit losses. Further, for the purposes of measuring lifetime expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables and contract 
assets, the Group has used a practical expedient as permitted under Ind AS 109. This expected credit loss allowance is 
computed based on a provision matrix which takes into account historical credit loss experience and adjusted for forward-
looking information.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at  March 31, 2024
Trade receivables from contract with customers
(a) Related parties (refer Note 34)
                                     325 
                                 256 
(b) Others
                                  6,616 
                              5,176 
                                  6,941 
                              5,432 
Less: Expected credit loss allowance
                                     106 
                                   80 
Total
                                  6,835 
                              5,352 
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
This Page has been 
Intentionally 
Left Blank
230
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Refer Note 30.3.2 for disclosure relating to credit risk.
Note : There are no unbilled revenues as on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1 - 2 
years
2 - 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Not Due
Unsecured trade receivables
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
(I) Undisputed trade receivables - considered good
 4,230 
 2,212 
 438 
 59 
 1 
 1 
 6,941 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -  
 -   
increase in credit risk
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables - Credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iv) Disputed trade receivables - considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(vi) Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total  
4,230 
 2,212 
 438 
 59 
 1 
 1 
 6,941 
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1 - 2 
years
2 - 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Not Due
Unsecured trade receivables
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
(i) Undisputed trade receivables - considered good
 3,432 
 1,817 
 116 
 60 
 7 
 -   
 5,432 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables - Credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iv) Disputed trade receivables - considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
increase in credit risk
(vi) Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total  
3,432 
 1,817 
 116 
 60 
 7 
 -   
 5,432 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
231
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 12A - Cash and cash equivalents
Refer Note 42(k) on other accounting policies. 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
(a)  Balances with banks in current accounts (refer Note below)
(b)  Cheques on hand
(c)  Cash on hand
 1,641 
 191 
 1 
 1,779 
 -   
 1 
Total
1,833
1,780 
Note: Includes bank balances maintained in Exchange Earners' Foreign Currency (EEFC) account which is below 
rounding off norms adopted by the Group.
Note 12B - Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
(a)  Deposits with maturity of more than 3 months
      and less than 1 year
(b)  Earmarked balances in dividend accounts
0
26
0
24
Total
26
24
Net debt reconciliation:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
Short-term borrowings
Lease liabilities
 1,833 
 (120)
 (38)
 1,780 
 0   
 -   
Net Cash/ (Net Debt)
 1,675 
 1,780
Particulars
Net Cash/ (Net debt) as at April 1, 2023
Net Cash/ (Net debt) as at March 31, 2024
 Cash and cash
equivalents 
 Short-term
borrowings 
 Lease
Liabilities 
 Cash and cash 
equivalents / Net (debt) 
Cash flows (net)
Repayments
Interest expense
Interest paid
1,315
 465 
 -   
 -   
 -   
1,780
0
-
1,780
 -   
 -   
 0 
 (0)
-
 -   
 -   
 -   
 465 
 -   
 (0)   
 0   
-
-
1,315
Net Cash/ (Net debt) as at March 31, 2025
1,833
(120)
(38)
1,675
Cash flows (net)
New borrowings / New Lease availed
Repayments
Interest expense
Interest paid
 53 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0 
 (120)   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (54)
 16 
 (5)
 5 
 53 
 (174)
 16 
 (5)
 5 
232
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 13 - Other financial assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Current
Non-Current
Non-Current
Current
78
68
59
84
Total
(a) Security deposits
(b) Employee advances (refer Note below)
(c) Non-trade receivables from 
      - Related Party  (refer Note 34)
      - Others
25
48
5
0
 68 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 36 
 38 
 10 
 0 
 59 
 -   
 -   
 -   
Notes:
(a) Employee advances represents advances in the 
nature of loans to employees amounting to:
With respect to the above advances:
(i) The Company has granted advances in the nature of loans to 269 employees aggregating to Rs. 66 lakhs during the year 
(March 31, 2024 : 224 employees aggregating to Rs. 61 lakhs).
(ii) The terms and conditions under which such advances in the nature of loans were granted are not prejudicial to the 
Company’s interest.
(iii) The schedule of repayment of principal has been stipulated and the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as 
stipulated. These advances in the nature of loans to employees are interest free and hence, payment of interest is not 
applicable.
(iv) There is no amount which is overdue for more than ninety days.
(v) There were no advances in nature of loans which fell due during the year and were renewed/extended. Further, no fresh 
loans were granted to same parties to settle the existing overdue advances in nature of loan.
(b) There were no loans/advances in nature of loans which were granted during the year to promoters/related parties.
48  
- 
   38  
-   
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Authorised: 
3,000,000 (March 31, 2024: 3,000,000) Equity
shares of Rs. 10/-  each with voting rights
Issued, subscribed and fully paid:
2,000,000 (March 31, 2024: 2,000,000) Equity
shares of Rs. 10/-  each with voting rights
300
300
Total
200
200
Note - 14: Equity share capital
200
200
(a) Reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
Add: Movements during the year
As at March 31, 2025
Number of
Shares
Amount
20,00,000
200
 20,00,000 
 -   
 200 
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
Amount
20,00,000
200
 20,00,000 
 -   
 200 
 -   
Number of
Shares
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
233
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(b) Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares in the Company:
Particulars
Equity shares :
       Wendt GmbH, Germany
       Carborundum Universal Limited, India
       SBI Mutual Fund
As at March 31, 2025
Number of
Shares
%
As at March 31, 2024
%
 7,50,000 
 7,50,000 
 1,27,425 
37.50
37.50
6.37
 7,50,000 
 7,50,000 
 1,28,544 
37.50
37.50
6.43
(c)  Details of shares held by Promoters at the end of the year:
Particulars
Equity shares :
       Wendt GmbH, Germany
       Carborundum Universal Limited, India
       
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
Shares
Number of
Shares
 7,50,000 
 7,50,000 
 
 7,50,000 
 7,50,000 
%
%
37.50
37.50
37.50
37.50
% Change
during 
the year
% Change
during 
the year
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
(d) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares with voting rights (one vote per share). The dividends proposed by the 
Board of directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in case of 
interim dividend which is approved by the Board of Directors. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity 
shareholders are entitled to receive only the residual assets of the Company. The distribution of dividend is in the 
proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
(e) There are no instances of bonus shares issued, shares issued for consideration other than cash and shares bought back 
during the period of 5 years immediately preceding the Balance Sheet date. Further, there are no contracts or 
commitments for the sale of shares or disinvestment and there are no shares reserved for issue under options.
Note: During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Promoters informed the Group of their execution of an agreement that 
amends the terms of the Shareholders agreement, specifically regarding their shareholding in the Company. The execution of 
the agreement is to facilitate a potential divestiture by Wendt GmbH of up to its entire ownership interest in the Company 
through one or more transactions in the secondary market.
Note 15 - Other equity
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
A. Reserves and Surplus
General reserve
8,110
7,727 
Retained earnings
15,343 
 12,833 
B. Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 716 
 451
Total
24,169 
 21,011
Number of
Shares
234
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
15.1 General Reserve
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
7,727 
7,332 
Transfer from retained earnings
383 
395 
Balance as at the end of the year
8,110 
7,727 
The general reserve is a free reserve, retained from the Group's profits and can be utilised upon fulfilling certain conditions
in accordance with Companies Act, if any.
15.2 Retained earnings
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 12,833 
 10,815 
Profit for the year
 3,948 
 4,095 
Other comprehensive income arising from remeasurement of  
(55)
 (82)
defined benefit obligation, net of tax
Payment of final dividend for the preceding financial year 
(400)
 (1,000)
Payment of interim dividend for the current year 
(600)
 (600)
Transfer to general reserve
 (383)
 (395)
Balance as at the end of the year 
15,343 
 12,833 
Retained earnings comprise of the Group's undistributed earnings after taxes.
15.3 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 451 
 524 
Movement during the year
 265 
 (73)
Balance as at the end of the year 
716 
 451 
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the results and net assets of the Group's foreign subsidiaries from their 
functional currencies to the Group's presentation currency (i.e. Indian Rupees) are recognised directly in Other 
Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. Exchange differences accumulated in 
the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to Profit or Loss at the time of disposal of respective foreign operation.
The amount of dividend per share distributed to equity shareholders during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024 was Rs. 50 and Rs. 80 respectively.
Dividend on equity shares declared and paid
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 25, 2024 had recommended a final dividend of 200% (Rs. 20/- per equity 
share of face value Rs.10/- each). The proposal was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on July 
22, 2024, this has resulted in a cash outflow of Rs. 400 lakhs. Also, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 22, 
2025 had declared an interim dividend of 300% (Rs. 30/- per equity share of face value of Rs. 10/- each), this has resulted in a 
cash outflow of Rs 600 lakhs.
Proposed dividend on equity shares
Further, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 23, 2025 have recommended a final dividend of  200% (Rs.20/- per 
equity share of face value of Rs.10/- each) which is subject to approval of shareholders.
15.4 Distributions made and proposed
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
235
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Refer Note 42(f)(ii) on other accounting policies 
Note 16 - Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
Opening
Balance
Recognised
in Profit 
and Loss
Recognised
in  other
comprehensive
Income
Closing
Balance
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 177 
 93 
 -   
 270 
Net gain on fair valuation of mutual funds
 164 
 (37)
 -   
 127 
Right-of-use assets
 -   
 0 
 0 
 341 
 56 
 -   
 397 
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax assets
Provision for employee benefits
 (167)
 (3)
 (18)
 (188)
Loss allowance on trade receivables
 (20)
 (6)
 -   
 (26)
Tax on unrealised profit on stock
 (3)
 -   
 -   
 (3)
Lease liabilities
 -   
 (1)
 -   
 (1)
 (190)
 (10)
 (18)
 (218)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 151 
 46 
 (18)
 179 
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Opening
Balance
Recognised
in Profit 
and Loss
Recognised
in  other
comprehensive
Income
Closing
Balance
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 187 
 (10)
 -   
 177 
Net gain on fair valuation of mutual funds
 139 
 25 
 -   
 164 
 326 
 15 
 -   
 341 
Tax effect of items constituting deferred tax assets
Provision for employee benefits
 (126)
 (14)
 (27)
 (167)
Loss allowance on trade receivables
 (16)
 (4)
 -   
 (20)
Tax on unrealised profit on stock
 (5)
 2 
 -   
 (3)
Others
 (12)
 12 
 -   
 -   
 (159)
 (4)
 (27)
 (190)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 167 
 11 
 (27)
 151 
236
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 17 - Current borrowings
Accounting Policy
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction cost incurred. Borrowings are classified as current liabilites 
unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 month after the reporting 
period.
Quarter
Name of Bank
Particulars 
of securities
provided
Amount
as per 
books of 
account
Amount as 
reported in the 
quarterly 
return
/ statement
Amount 
of difference
Jun-24
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
 3,192 
 3,192 
 -   
Sep-24
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
 3,446 
 3,446 
 -   
Dec-24
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
 3,580 
 3,580 
 -   
Mar-25
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Inventories
 3,440 
 3,440 
 -   
a. Inventories
Quarter
Name of Bank
Particulars 
of securities
provided
Amount
as per books
of account
(Gross)
Amount as 
reported in the 
quarterly 
return
/ statement
Amount 
of 
difference
Jun-24
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Trade Receivables
 3,802 
 3,802 
 -   
Sep-24
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Trade Receivables
 3,872 
 3,872 
 -   
Dec-24
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Trade Receivables
 4,175 
 4,175 
 -   
Mar-25
State Bank of India and ICICI Bank Limited
Trade Receivables
 6,694 
 6,694 
 -   
b. Trade Receivables
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Secured (refer Notes below)
 Book Overdraft 
 120 
 -   
 Total
 120 
 -   
Notes:
(i) 
Current borrowings- Book overdraft represents availment of cash credit facility, which carries an interest rate of 9.90% 
per annum.
(ii) 
First charge on all Property, plant and equipment of the Company except land and building.
(iii) 
Details of quarterly statements of current assets filed by the Company with the bank and reconciliation with the books of 
account for the year ended March 31, 2025.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
235
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 18 - Trade payables
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Total Outstanding dues of Micro and small enterprises 
(refer Note 38)
 354 
 223 
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than MSME
- Related parties (refer Note 34)
 531 
 316 
- Other than related parties
 2,216 
 1,988 
 
2,747 
 2,304 
 Total 
 
3,101 
 2,527
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Unbilled 
trade 
payables 
(Accrued)
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
           
           
            
            
            
            
(i) Undisputed Dues - MSME
-
223
-
-
-
-
223
(ii) Undisputed Dues - Others
460
          
1,151
        
603
          
52
             
16
               
22
              
2,304
(iii) Disputed Dues - MSME
-
           
-
 
-
            
-
           
 
-
            
-
           
-
(iv) Disputed Dues - Others
-
           
-
            
-
            
-
            
-            
-
            
-
Total
460
          
1,374
        
603
          
52
             
16               22
              
2,527
Particulars
Outstanding for the following period from the due date of payment
Refer Note 42(o) on other accounting policies 
Unbilled 
trade 
payables 
(Accrued)
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
           
           
            
            
            
            
(i) Undisputed Dues - MSME
-
354
-
-
-
-
354
(ii) Undisputed Dues - Others
706
          
1,250
        
729
           
56
             
2
               
4
              
2,747
(iii) Disputed Dues - MSME
-
           
-
            
-
            
-
           
 
-
            
-
            
-
(iv) Disputed Dues - Others
-
           
-
            
-
            
-
            
-            
-             
-
Total
706
          
1,604
        
729
           
56
             
2               4               
3,101
Particulars
Outstanding for the following period from the due date of payment
238
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 19 - Other financial liabilities - Current
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
 (a) Unclaimed and Unpaid dividends (refer Note (i) below) 
 25 
 23 
 (b) Deposit from related party (refer Note 34) 
 10 
 10 
 (c) Creditors for capital supplies and services (refer Note (ii) below) 
 430 
 104 
 (d) Due to employees 
 253 
 252 
 (e) Others 
 
7 
 7 
 Total 
 
725 
 396
Notes:
(i) There are no amounts which has remained unpaid or unclaimed as at Balance sheet date requiring transfer to Investor 
Education and Protection Fund. 
(ii) Creditors for capital supplies and services includes dues to MSME amounting to Rs. 11 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Nil)
Note 20 - Provisions
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
 (a) Provision for employee benefits
- Compensated absences (refer Note 33)
 574 
 483 
- Gratuity (refer Note 33)
 169 
 178 
(b) Provision for Warranty (refer Notes below)
 44 
 33 
Total
 
787 
 694 
Notes:
(i) 
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of products sold which are still under warranty at the end of the 
reporting period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Warranty estimates are established 
using historical information on the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims and also management 
estimates regarding possible future outflow on servicing the customers for any corrective action in respect of product 
failure which is generally expected to be settled within a period of 24 months.
(ii) Movement in provision for warranty:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
As at beginning of the year
 33 
 16 
Provision recognised during the year (refer Note 28)
 18 
 25 
Amounts used during the year
 (7)
 (8)
As at end of the year
 44 
 33 
Refer Note 42(e) on other accounting policies.
Note 21 - Other current liabilities
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
(a) Advances received from customers (refer Note below)
154
190
(b) Statutory dues payable (other than income taxes)
477
364
(c) Others
36
25
Total
667
579
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
239
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note:
(i)   Movement of advances received from customers:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance as at beginning of the year
 190 
 167 
Amounts received during the year 
 585 
 1,233 
Amounts recognized as revenue during the year
 (621)
 (1,210)
Balance as at end of the year 
 154 
 190 
Note 22 - Revenue from operations
Accounting Policy
a) Sale of goods
b) Sale of services
The Group earns revenue from sale of goods and services of Super Abrasives, High precision Grinding, Honing, Special 
Purpose Machines and High Precision Components.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when control of products has transferred to customers  and there are no unfulfilled 
obligations that could affect the customer's acceptance of the products. Control of products is considered to be transferred at 
a point-in-time when goods have been despatched or delivered, as per the terms agreed with the customer.
Revenue is recognised at the transaction price which the Group expects to be entitled.
The Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money as the contract with customers does not 
contain a significant financing component, since the sales are generally made with a credit term of 30 to 60 days, which is 
consistent with market practice.
When the payment exceeds the value of goods supplied or services rendered, a contract liability (advance from customers) is 
recognised. If the value of goods supplied or services rendered exceed the payment, a contract asset is recognised.
Revenue from rendering of services is recognized as the services are rendered over a period of time as per the terms of 
contracts with customers.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(i) Revenue from contract with customers 
(a) Sale of products [refer Notes (i) and (iii) below] 
 21,209 
 20,371 
(b) Sale of services [refer Notes (ii) and (iii) below] 
 1,905 
 2,111 
 23,114 
 22,482 
(ii) Other operating income  [refer Note (iv) below] 
258 
 201 
Total
 23,372 
 22,683 
Year ended
Notes:
(i) Details of sale of products (point in time)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
 Manufactured products 
19,004 
 18,014 
 Traded products
 2,205 
 2,357 
 Total - sale of products
 21,209 
 20,371 
Year ended
240
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(ii)  Details of sale of services (overtime)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
 Machining charges 
1,683 
 1,893 
 Others 
 222 
 218 
 Total - sale of services
 1,905 
 2,111
Year ended
(iii)  Other disclosures required under Ind AS 115
(a) All the revenue contracts are for periods of one year or less. Hence as permitted under Ind AS 115, the transaction price 
allocated to these unsatisfied contracts is not disclosed.
(b) Refer Note 31 for disclosure of disaggregated revenue.
(c) Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract price
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Contract price
 23,114 
 22,482 
Adjustment towards variable consideration
-   
 -   
Revenue from sale of products and services
 23,114 
 22,482 
Year ended
(iv) Details of other operating income
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Sale of scrap
 116 
 73 
Commission
 19 
 20 
Export incentives
 61 
 57 
Freight recovery from customers - net
 62 
 51 
 Total - other operating income
 258 
 201 
Year ended
Note 23 - Other income
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a) Interest income
- On income tax refund
 46 
 -   
- Others (from financial assets measured at amortised cost)
 18 
 36 
(b) Rental income (refer Note 32)
45 
48 
(c) Net gain on sale of current investments
613 
 145 
(d) Net fair value gain on financial assets measured 
 35 
 355 
at fair value through profit or loss
(e) Net gain on disposal of Property, plant 
 7 
 17 
and equipment /scrapped
(f)
Net gain on foreign exchange transactions and translation
 93 
 101 
(g) Miscellaneous income
 19 
 10 
Total
 876 
 712 
Year ended
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
241
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 24 - Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening stock
Work - in - progress
 723 
 621 
Finished goods
 436 
 288 
Stock-in- trade
 266 
 395 
 1,425 
 1,304 
Closing Stock
Work - in - progress
 772 
 723 
Finished goods
 401 
 436 
Stock-in- trade
 356 
 266 
 1,529 
 1,425 
Net (increase) / decrease
(104)
 (121)
Year ended
Note 25 Employee benefits expense
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a) Salaries, wages and bonus
3,508 
 3,195 
(b) Contribution to provident and other funds (refer Note 33C)
304 
 306 
(c) Staff welfare expenses
411 
 365 
Total
 4,223 
 3,866 
Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a) Interest expense on borrowings
-   
 0 
(b) Interest on lease liabilities
5
 -   
(c) Interest - others
-   
 0 
Total
 5 
 0
Year ended
Note 26  Finance costs
242
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer Note 3)
917 
 843 
(b) Amortisation of intangible assets  (refer Note 6)
71 
 12 
(c) Depreciation of right-of-use asset (refer Note 3B)
19 
 - 
Total
1,007 
 855 
Year ended
Note 27 Depreciation and amortisation expense
Note 28 - Other expenses
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Stores and spares consumed
 1,173 
 1,028 
Contract labour
 151 
 143 
Repairs and maintenance
- Buildings
 108 
 116 
- Machinery
 171 
 237 
- Others
62 
 45 
Power and fuel charges
 423 
 430 
Freight outward and packing charges (net)
 337 
 333 
Rental charges (refer note 3B(v))
 1 
 5 
Job work Processing charges
 925 
 1,083 
Sitting fees paid to non-executive directors (refer Note 34)
13 
 10 
Commission to non-executive directors (refer Note 34)
 22 
 25 
Rates and taxes
 171 
 54 
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (refer Note 37)
94 
 71 
Insurance
 44 
 37 
Selling commission
 274 
 284 
Bad trade receivables written off
-   
 1 
Loss allowance for trade receivables (refer Note 30.3.2)
 26 
 15 
Auditors remuneration
As Auditors
Statutory audit and limited review
 19 
 15 
Tax audit and certificates
 1 
 1 
     Reimbursement of expenses
2 
 3 
Bank charges
 53 
 41 
Management fee (refer Note 34)
290 
 274 
Professional expenses
 256 
 185 
Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Charges
147 
 117 
Advertisement and sales promotion expenses
 53 
 28 
Warranty expenses (refer Note 20)
 18 
 25 
Travelling and conveyance expenses
 279 
 196 
Communication expenses
 23 
 21 
Miscellaneous expenses
 311 
 228 
Total
 5,447 
 5,051 
Year ended
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
243
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 29 - Income tax recognised in profit or loss
Particulars
Current tax
In respect of the current year
 1,199 
 1,305 
In respect of the prior years
 (70)
 10 
 1,129 
 1,315 
Deferred tax
In respect of the current year 
 46 
 11 
 46 
 11 
Total 
 1,175 
 1,326 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(a) Income tax expense
Particulars
Profit before tax 
 5,123 
 5,421 
Income tax using the Company's domestic tax 
 1,289 
 1,364 
rate of 25.17% (March 31, 2024 - 25.17%)
Effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining  
50 
 18 
taxable profit
Effect of different overseas tax rates
 (8)
 (11)
Effect of differential tax on long-term capital gain 
(88)
 (62)
Effect of unused tax losses applied during current period
 (4)
 - 
Others
 6 
 7 
 1,245 
 1,316 
Adjustment recognised in the current year in relation to current tax
 (70)
 10 
 of previous years
Income tax recognised in statement of profit and Loss
1,175 
 1,326 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(b) Numerical reconciliation between average effective tax rate and applicable tax rate :
Note:
1)  The tax impact for deferred tax purposes has been arrived by applying a tax rate of 25.17% (March 31, 2024 : 25.17%) 
being the prevailing tax rate applicable for the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 under the Income tax 
Act , 1961.
(c) Unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised
 -   
 
32 
Carried forward unused tax losses relates to long-term capital losses has been utilised during the current year against the 
long-term capital gain arising out of sale of Investments.
Refer Note 42(f) on other accounting policies
244
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 30 - Financial Instruments
30.1 Capital Management
30.2 Categories of financial instruments
The capital includes issued equity share capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders. The Group’s 
objectives when managing capital is to safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern while maximizing the return to 
shareholders through the optimisation of cash and cash equivalents along with investment which is predominantly investment 
in liquid mutual funds and deposits.
The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 were as 
follows:
Particulars
Carrying Amount as at 
Fair Value as at 
 March 31, 
2025
 March 31,
2024
 March 31,
2024
 March 31,
2025
Financial Assets
Measured at fair value through profit and 
loss (FVTPL) 
Investments
5,157 
7,345 
5,157 
7,345 
Measured at amortised cost
- Trade receivables
 6,835 
 5,352 
 6,835 
 5,352 
- Cash and cash equivalents
 1,833 
 1,780 
 1,833 
 1,780 
- Other bank balances
 26 
 24 
 26 
 24 
-
Other financial assets
 146 
 143 
 146 
 143 
Total financial assets
 13,997 
 14,644 
 13,997 
 14,644 
Financial Liabilities
Measured at amortised cost
- Trade payables
 3,101 
 2,527 
 3,101 
 2,527 
- Other financial liabilities
 725 
 396 
 725 
 396 
- Borrowings
 120 
 -   
 120 
 -   
- Lease liabilities
 38 
 -   
 38 
 -
Total financial liabilities
 3,984 
 2,923 
 3,984 
 2,923 
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a 
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The management assessed that fair value of cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables and other 
current financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these 
instruments.
The fair value of unquoted mutual funds is based on the net asset value published by the asset management company at the 
reporting date. 
Fair value hierarchy
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
  (i.e.as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
245
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
The following table presents the fair value measurement hierarchy of financial assets measured at fair value on recurring 
basis as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Particulars
Note
Total
Fair value measurement using
Prices in
active markets
(Level 1)
Significant
observable
inputs (Level 2)
Significant
unobservable
inputs (Level 3)
Financial assets designated at FVTPL:
As at March 31, 2025
   -  Investment in mutual funds 
10
 5,157 
 5,157 
 -   
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
   -  Investment in mutual funds
10
 7,345 
 7,345 
 -   
 -   
The following table presents the assets and liabilities which are measured at amortized cost for which fair values are disclosed 
as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Particulars
Note
Total
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices
in active 
markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable
inputs
(Level 2)
Significant
unobservable
inputs
(Level 3)
As at March 31, 2025
Financial assets measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade receivables
11
 6,835 
 -   
 -   
 6,835 
  - Cash and cash equivalents
12A
 1,833 
 -   
 -   
1,833 
  - Other bank balances
12B
 26 
 -   
 -   
 26 
  - Other financial assets
13
 146 
 -   
 -   
 146
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
 3,101 
 -   
 -   
 3,101 
  - Other financial liabilities
19
 725 
 -   
 -   
 725 
  - Borrowings
17
 120 
 -   
 -   
 120 
  - Lease liabilities
3B
 38 
 -   
 -   
 38 
As at March 31, 2024
Financial assets measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade receivables
11
 5,352 
 -   
 -   
 5,352 
  - Cash and cash equivalents
12A
 1,780 
 -   
 -   
 1,780 
  - Other bank balances
12B
 24 
 -   
 -   
 24 
  - Other financial assets
13
 143 
 -   
 -   
 143 
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
 2,527 
 -   
 -   
 2,527 
  - Other financial liabilities
19
 396 
 -   
 -   
396 
There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period.
246
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
30.3 Financial risk management objectives and policies
30.3.1 Market risk
30.3.1 (a)  Foreign currency risk management
The Group treasury function provides service to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial 
markets monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the group  through internal risk report which 
analyze exposures by degree and magnitude of risk.  These risk include market risk (currency risk and interest risk), price risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide 
written principles on interest risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity. The Group does not enter into trade financial 
instruments for speculative purpose.
The Group treasury function reports quarterly to the senior management team that monitors risk and policies implemented to 
mitigate risk exposures.
The Group is exposed primarily to the financial risk of change in foreign currency exchange rate. The group transacts in 
various foreign currencies. Foreign currencies are recognised at the rate of exchange prevailing at the date of transaction. 
The Group follows the policy of natural hedging of foreign exchange transactions. There is a net foreign exchange gain in the 
current and previous year.
The Group undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies, consequently, the group is exposed to exchange rate 
fluctuations. To mitigate this, group is operating US Dollar and EURO denominated Exchange Earner's foreign currency 
(EEFC) account. The export proceeds are getting credited in this account and these amounts in foreign currency are utilized 
to make import payments. Further, the Group follows the policy of natural hedging of foreign exchange earnings and outflow 
and hence it does not take any forward covers.
The carrying amounts of the Group's foreign currency (unhedged) denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at 
the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Thai Baht
(in lakhs)
Creditors against Import of goods, 
capital items and Services
USD
 -   
 5.06 
 437 
 -   
 4.96 
 418 
USD
82.00
 -   
 208 
48.99
 -  
 112 
EUR
-   
 2.77 
 263 
 -   
 2.07 
190 
GBP
-   
 0.07 
 7 
 -   
 0.17 
 19 
CHF
-   
 0.01 
 -   
 -   
 0.14 
 13 
JPY
-   
 442.59 
 257 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 1,172 
 752 
Trade  and other receivables
USD
-   
 7.81 
 661 
 -   
 10.48 
 865 
EUR
 -   
   2.34 
 214 
 -   
 3.33 
 295 
RUB
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 128.25 
 112 
GBP
 -   
 0.51 
 56 
 -   
 0.66 
 68 
 931  
1,340 
Foreign
Currency
(in lakhs)
INR
(in lakhs)
INR
(in lakhs)
Foreign
Currency
(in lakhs)
Thai Baht
(in lakhs)
The net exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is insignificant.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
247
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
The sensitivity of impact on profit or loss of the Group to changes in the exchange rates, individual currency wise, is 
summarized below:-
30.3.2 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
investing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial 
instruments. 
The customers are broadly classified into high risk and medium risk, accordingly credit limit exposure is fixed. The company 
carries out payment performance review of all customers and based on this analysis, risk category of customers are 
evaluated annually. Further, the utilization of credit limit is regularly monitored by the Management.
Details of loss allowance on Trade receivables and contract assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Gross
carrying
amount 
Expected
Credit Loss
(%)
Expected
Credit Loss
amount
Expected
Credit
Loss amount
Expected
Credit
Loss (%)
Gross
carrying
amount
Within the credit period
 4,253 
 0.3 
 12 
 3,432 
 0.3 
 10 
Less than 6 months past due
 2,228 
 1.0 
 23 
 1,911 
 1.2 
 24 
6 months - 1 year past due
 438 
 10.0 
 44 
 130 
 10.0 
 13 
1 - 2 years days past due
 59 
 43.1 
 25 
 60 
 43.5 
 26 
> 2 years past due
 2 
 100.0 
 2 
 7 
 100.0 
 7 
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at beginning of the year
80 
 65 
Amounts recognised in the year (refer Note 28)
 26 
 15 
Amounts written off during the year (out of provision) 
-   
 -   
Balance as at end of the year 
 106 
 80 
Currency Sensitivity
USD Sensitivity
INR/USD - Increase by 1%
0.06%
0.10%
INR/USD - Decrease by 1%
(0.06%)
(0.10%)
EUR Sensitivity
INR/EUR - Increase by 1%
(0.01%) 
0.02%
INR/EUR - Decrease by 1%
0.01%
(0.02%)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit before tax (in %)
248
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
30.3.3 Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group's approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and 
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group's business and reputation.
The Group regularly reviews its receivables, inventory and other working capital elements to mitigate any liquidity concerns. 
Any surplus from the business funds needs is parked in debt mutual funds (liquid / liquid plus) from reputed Asset 
Management Companies to provide day to day working capital.
(i) Financial arrangements
The Group had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
 3,101 
 3,101 
 -   
 -   
  - Other Financial Liabilities
19
 725 
 725 
 -   
 -   
  - Borrowings
17
 120 
 120 
 -   
 -   
  - Lease liabilities
3B
 38 
 19 
 19 
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost:
  - Trade payables
18
 2,527 
 2,527 
 -   
 -   
  - Other Financial Liabilities
19
 396 
 396 
 -   
 -   
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Floating rate
     - Expiring within one year (bank overdraft and other facilities)
500
400
Book Overdraft as shown in Note 17 represents availment of cash credit facility in the books as at year-end. This was 
temporary and there was no actual utilisation of the borrowing facility.
The following table presents the maturity period of all financial liabilities as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Note
Contractual cash flows
Carrying
Amount
Less than
1 year
1 - 2 years
More than
2 years
Refer Note 42(m) on other accounting policies 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
249
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 31 - Segment Disclosures
Accounting Policy
31.1 Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenue
31.2 Segment Revenues and Results
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision 
maker (CODM).
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the holding Company has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(CODM) of the Group as defined by Ind AS 108, Operating Segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an 
enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the CODM, in deciding how to 
allocate resources and assessing performance.  
1) The Group is organised into four business segments, namely:
a) Super Abrasives , b) Machines and Accessories , c) Precision Products and d) Others
The "Others" segment includes other trading products.
The  above segments have been identified taking into account the organisation structure as well as the differing risks and 
returns of these segments. The Group has identified business segments as its primary segments. The reportable 
business segments are in line with the segment wise information which is being presented to the CODM.
2) Segment revenue and expenses have been identified to segments on the basis of their relationships to the operating 
activities of the segment. Revenue and expenses, which relate to the enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to 
segments on a reasonable basis have been included under "Other un-allocable Income".
Particulars
1. Segment Revenue
a) Super Abrasives
14,159
13,315
b) Machines and Accessories
4,650
4,732
c) Precision Products
2,779
2,733
d) Others
1,812
1,714
Total
23,400
22,494
Less:- Inter Segment Revenue
286
12
Revenues from contract with customers
23,114
22,482
2. Segment Results
a) Super Abrasives
 3,122 
 3,114 
b) Machines and Accessories
 854 
 1,111 
c) Precision Products
 332 
 399 
d) Others
 146 
 169 
Total
 
4,454 
 4,793 
Less:  (i)  Finance costs
 5 
 0 
          (ii)  Other un-allocable Income net of un-allocable Expenditure  
(674)
 (628)
    of Rs. 202 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs.84 lakhs)
Profit before tax
 5,123 
 5,421 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
250
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
31.3 Other profit and loss disclosures
Particulars
Specified amounts regularly provided to the CODM, but not included
 -   
 -   
in the segment measure of profit or loss (i.e., Profit before tax):
Specified amounts included in the measure of segment profit or loss
(i.e.,  Profit before tax) reviewed by the CODM:
Earning before interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)
a) Super Abrasives
 3,786 
 3,709 
b) Machines and Accessories
 912 
 1,142 
c) Precision Products
 598 
 609 
d) Others
 165 
 188 
Total
 
5,461 
 5,648 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
31.4 Revenue by Geographical market 
Particulars
 India 
 
16,834 
 15,682 
 Outside India 
 6,280 
 6,800 
 Total Revenues 
 23,114 
 22,482 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
31.5 Segment assets and liabilities
Particulars
a) Super Abrasives
 12,726 
 8,827 
b) Machines and Accessories
 5,764 
 3,779 
c) Precision Products
 3,039 
 2,632 
d) Others
 609 
 480 
Total segment assets
 22,138 
 15,718 
Unallocable assets
 7,942 
 9,857 
Total assets as per Balance sheet 
 30,080 
 25,575 
Segment Liabilities-Unallocable 
 5,711 
 4,364 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Assets other than property, plant and equipment, inventory and trade receivables, and liabilities are not identifiable to
any reportable segment, as these are used interchangable between segments.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
251
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
31.6 Non current assets by geographical market other than financial assets and income tax assets
Particulars
 India 
 
11,337 
 6,488 
 Outside India 
 219 
 175 
 Total non current assets 
 11,556 
 6,663 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
31.7 Information about major customers
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group's total revenue for the years ended March 31,2025 and 
March 31, 2024.
Note 32  - Leases As a Lessor
The Company has entered into operating lease arrangements and leased out a portion of its factory building to a related 
party, which is for a period of less than 12 months. 
This lease is a short term lease and does not include any variable payment terms.
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss:
The statement of profit or loss shows the following amount related to leases:
Particulars
Lease rental income recognised in the Statement of 
 45 
 48 
Profit and Loss (refer Note 23)
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Details of the Factory Building (leased out portion) are as given below:
Particulars
Gross carrying amount
 239 
 239 
Less: Accumulated depreciation
 18 
 14 
Net carrying amount
 221 
 225 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
The depreciation recognized in respect of the leased out portion of the factory building for the year is Rs.4 lakhs (March 
31, 2024 : Rs. 4 lakhs).
There are no contingent rents receivable and there are no direct operating expenses related to the above building.
252
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note  33  - Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Plans
Defined Benefit Plans
The Company operates defined contribution benefit plans for all qualifying employees.
Superannuation fund, Providend fund and pension fund are defined contribution plans towards which the Company makes 
contribution at predetermined rates to the Superannuation Trust funded with Life Insurance Corporation of India and the 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner respectively. The same is debited to the Statement of Profit and Loss account based 
on the amount of contribution required to be made as and when services are rendered by the employees. The Company also 
makes contributions to state plans namely Employee’s State Insurance Fund and Employee’s Pension Scheme 1995. The 
Company has no further payment obligation once the contributions have been paid. The Company's subsidiary does not 
have any defined contribution or benefit plans.
The Company is having defined benefit plan namely gratuity for all qualifying employees.
The liability for gratuity to employees as at the Balance Sheet date is determined on the basis of actuarial valuation using 
projected Unit Credit method.  The amount is funded to a Gratuity fund administered by the trustees of 'M/s. Wendt (India) 
Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust' and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gain and losses and the return on plan assets (excluding net interest), is reflected 
immediately in the Balance Sheet with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which 
they occur. Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected in retained earnings and is not 
reclassified to profit or loss.
The plans typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary 
risk.
If the return on plan asset is below the discount rate which is determined 
by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period, it will 
create a plan deficit.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using 
the discount rate which is determined by reference to market yield at the 
end of the reporting period on government bonds. For other defined 
benefit plans, the discount rate is determined by reference to market 
yields at the end of the reporting period. A decrease in the bond interest 
rate will increase the plan liability. However, this will be partially offset by 
an increase in the return on the plan's investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by 
reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both 
during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectance of 
the plan participants will increase the plan's liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by 
reference to the future salaries of plan participants. As such, an increase 
in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan's liability.
Investment risk
Interest rate risk
Longevity risk
Salary risk
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
253
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
A. Gratuity
The following tables set out the funded status of the gratuity plans and the amounts recognised in the Company's financial 
statements as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
(a) Change in defined benefit obligation
Particulars
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of period
 992 
 827 
Service cost
  
  
    a) Current service cost
 92 
 77 
    b) Past service cost
 -   
 36 
Interest expenses 
 69 
 55 
Benefits paid
 (28)
 (122)
Remeasurements
    a) Effect of changes in demographic assumptions
 30 
 (25)
    b) Effect of change in financial assumptions
 21 
 12 
    c) Effect of experience adjustments
 24 
 132 
Transfer in
 17 
 -   
Transfer out
 (25)
Defined benefit obligation at end of period
 1,192 
 992 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period
 814 
 781 
Interest income
 63 
 55 
Contributions
 180 
 91 
Benefits paid
 (28)
 (122)
Remeasurements
    a) Return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
 2 
 9 
Transfer in
 17 
 -   
Transfer out
 (25)
 -   
Fair value of plan assets at end of period
 1,023 
 814 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(b) Change in fair value of plan assets
Particulars
Defined benefit obligation
 1,192 
 992 
Fair value of plan assets
 (1,023)
 (814)
Net defined benefit liability * / (asset)
 169 
 178 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(c) Amounts recognized in the Balance Sheet
*Included under provision for employee benefits in Note 20 - "Provisions"
254
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Particulars
Service Cost
 92 
 77 
Net interest cost
6
 0 
Past service Cost
 -   
 36 
Net Gratuity cost in the consolidated statement of profit and loss *
 98 
 113 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
(d) Amounts recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss
* Included under contribution to provident and other funds in Note 25 - "Employee benefits expense"
Particulars
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability / (asset)
Actuarial (gains) / losses
 75 
 118 
(Return) / Loss on plan assets excluding  amounts included in the net 
(2)
 (9)
interest on the defined benefit liability / (asset)
 
Net Cost in Other Comprehensive Income
 73 
 109 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
(e) Amounts recognized in the Other Comprehensive Income
Particulars
Fund with an Insurance Company
 1,023 
 814 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(f) Composition of plan assets
Particulars
Discount rate
6.78%
7.03%
Salary escalation rate
12.00%
12.00%
Attrition rate
7.00%
8.00%
Retirement age
 58 years 
 58 years 
Pre-retirement mortality 
Indian Assured Lives Mortality Indian Assured Lives Mortality
(2012-14) Ultimate 
  (2012-14) Ultimate 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(g) Significant actuarial assumptions
The Company assesses these assumptions with its projected long-term plans of growth and prevalent industry standards.
The discount rate is based on the government securities yield.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
255
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(h) Sensitivity analysis - DBO end of Period
Particulars
Discount rate +100 basis points
 1,103 
 921 
Discount rate -100 basis points
 1,293 
 1,073 
Salary escalation rate +1%
 1,285 
 1,066 
Salary escalation rate -1%
 1,109 
 925 
Attrition rate +1%
 1,162 
 969 
Attrition rate -1%
 1,225 
 1,017 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Expected employer contributions
191
199
Expected total benefit payments
Year 1
81
61
Year 2
93
103
Year 3
120
84
Year 4
97
108
Year 5
131
88
Next 5 years
590
524
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(i) Expected cash flows for following year
Particulars
Charge / (credit) in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 123 
 72 
Liability as at the year end (refer Note 20)
 574 
 483 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
B. Compensated Absences
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, salary escalation rate and 
attrition rate. The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual changes in the defined benefit obligation as 
it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be 
correlated.
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in 
calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 10.03 years (March 31, 2024: 9.41 years)
(a) Charge to Statement of Profit and Loss and Liability
The entire amount of provision is presented as current since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to 
avail the full amount of accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 12 months.  The leave obligation not 
expected to be settled within the next 12 months amounts to Rs. 393 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 317 lakhs).
256
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Particulars
Discount rate
6.78% p.a.
7.03% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
  12.00% p.a.  
 12.00% p.a. 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(b) Actuarial Assumptions
Particulars
Employers' Contribution to Provident Fund *
 113 
 99 
Employers’ Contribution to Superannuation Fund *
 29 
 29 
Employers’ Contribution to Employee’s Pension Scheme 1995 *
 64 
 65 
Employers’ Contribution to Employee’s State Insurance  #
 5 
 7 
Employers' Contribution to Social security Fund #
 2 
 2 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
C. Defined Contribution Plans
* Included in contribution to provident and other funds
# Included in staff welfare expenses
Note  34  - Related Party Disclosures
1) List of Related parties
i) Investors with significant influence (SI) on the Group and their subsidiaries or fellow subsidiaries, with 
whom transactions have taken place during the year
(a) Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
      
(1)  CUMI America Inc, USA
      
(2)  CUMI (Australia) Pty Limited, Australia
      
(3)  Net Access India Limited, India
(4)  Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
(5)  Southern  Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
(6)  RHODIUS abrasives GmbH, Germany
 (b) Wendt GmbH, Germany
(1) Winterthur Technology Iberica SL, Spain
      (2) 3M UK -Winterthur Technology, UK
      
(3) 3M Company US (Montrose, USA)
      
(4) 3M Australia Pty Limited, Australia
      
(5) 3M Svenska AB, Sweden
      (6) 3M International Trading (SHA) Co. Shanghai
ii) Key Management Personnel (KMP) with whom transactions have taken place during the year
    Mr. Ninad Gadgil, Executive Director and CEO (From May 6, 2024)
   
 Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao, Non-Executive Director
 Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar, Non-Executive Director (From July 24, 2024)
Mr. Srikanth C, Executive Director and CEO (till May 5, 2024)
   
 Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar, Non-Executive Director (till July 23, 2024)
   
 Mr. Sridharan Rangarajan, Non-Executive Director *
   
 Mr. M Lakshminarayan, Non-Executive Director (till November 30,2023)
 Ms. Hima Srinivas, Non-Executive Director
 Mr. Muthiah Venkatachalam, Non-Executive Director
iii) Other Related party
  
 Wendt (India) Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust
* No transactions during the year.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
257
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
2) Transaction with related parties during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are as follows:
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Purchase of Capital Goods
Southern Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
Net Access India Limited, India
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Purchase of Intangible Assets
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Purchase of Goods
Wendt Gmbh, Germany
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Selling Commission 
CUMI America Inc, USA
EDP Charges
Net Access India Limited, India
Reimbursement of other Expenses  to related parties
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
CUMI America Inc, USA
Management Fee Expense
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Managerial Remuneration
Mr. Srikanth C
Mr. Ninad Gadgil
Sitting fees paid
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Mr. M Lakshminarayan
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Mr. Muthiah Venkatachalam
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
 113 
 76 
 184 
 373 
 
3,508 
 
292 
 986 
 8 
 1,286 
 
-   
71 
 59 
 32 
 91 
 
290 
 19 
 194 
 2 
 -   
 3 
 4 
 2 
 2 
 13 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 
-   
 143 
 982 
 21 
 1,146 
 
28 
 38 
 52 
 -   
 52 
 
274 
 129 
 -   
 3 
 1 
 2 
 3 
 -   
 1 
 10 
258
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
Commission to non-executive directors
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Mr. M Lakshminarayan
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Mr. Muthiah Venkatachalam
Payment of Dividend 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Contribution to post employment Benefit Plan
Wendt (India) Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust
Sale of Goods and Services
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
CUMI America Inc, USA
CUMI (Australia) Pty Ltd, Australia
RHODIUS Abrasives GmbH, Germany
Winterthur Technology Iberica SL, Spain
3M Svenska AB, Sweden
3M Australia Pty Limited, Australia
3M Company US (Montrose, USA)
3M International Trading (SHA) Co. Shanghai
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Receipt of Commission and Rent
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Reimbursement of Expenses - Received
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Other related party
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
 5 
 3 
 7 
 5 
 -   
 5 
 25 
 
600 
 600 
 1,200 
91 
265 
 454 
 412 
 2 
 1 
 94 
 1 
 0 
 12 
 -   
 20 
 1,261 
 20 
 48 
 68 
 22 
 2 
 -   
 7 
 5 
 3 
 5 
 22 
 
375 
 375 
 750 
180 
262 
 405 
 338 
 2 
 -   
 51 
 1 
 -   
 -   
 3 
 21 
 1,083 
 19 
 45 
 64 
 45
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
259
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
3) The details of amounts due to or due from related parties as at March 31, 2025 and  March 31, 2024 are as follows:
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
Trade receivables and Contract assets
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
CUMI America Inc, USA
CUMI (Australia) Pty Ltd, Australia
Winterthur Technology Iberica SL, Spain
3M International Trading (SHA) Co. Shanghai
3M Svenska AB, Sweden
3M Company US (Montrose, USA)
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Other financial assets
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Other Non current assets
Southern Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
Trade payables
Wendt GmbH, Germany 
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
CUMI America Inc, USA
Sterling Abrasives Limited, India
Southern Energy Development Corporation Ltd, India
Net Access India Limited, India
Other financial liabilities
Carborundum Universal Limited (CUMI), India
Commission payable
Mr. Shrinivas G Shirgurkar
Mr. M Lakshminarayan
Ms. Hima Srinivas
Mr. Bhagya Chandra Rao
Mr. Lakshminarayanan Ramkumar
Mr Muthiah Venkatachalam
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Subsidiary of Investor with SI
Investor with SI
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
KMP
 46 
 72 
 122 
 -   
 22 
 -   
 -   
 3 
 5 
 270 
10 
 19 
34
264
10
6
 -   
2
316
 
10 
 5 
 3 
 7 
 5 
 -   
 5 
 25 
 52 
 137 
 124 
 1 
 7 
 3 
 1 
 -   
 -   
 325 
 
5 
 -   
59
437
14
2
1
18
 531 
 
10 
 2 
 -   
 7 
 5 
 3 
 5 
 22 
260
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 35 - Earning per share (EPS) 
Accounting Policy
The basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit attributable to equity shareholders for the year by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after income tax effect of interest and other financing 
costs associated with dilutive potential equity shares, and the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would 
have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Particulars
Short-term benefits
 189 
 111 
Post Employment Benefits
 24 
 18 
Other benefits
 0 
 0 
Sitting fees and commission
 35 
 35 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
4) The details of compensation to KMP are as follows:
Note: The related party relationships are as identified by the Group, on the basis of information available with the Group. 
Transactions with related parties, including in the nature of sale of goods, rendering of services, purchase of goods (including 
capital goods), procurement of services, purchase of intangible assets and others are at arm’s length price. 
Particulars
a) Profit for the year (Rs in lakhs)
 3,948 
 4,095 
b) Weighted average number of equity shares (number)
 2,000,000 
 2,000,000 
c) Nominal value of shares (in rupees)
 10 
 10 
    Earnings per share (in rupees) -
    Basic and diluted 
 197.43 
 204.77 
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Note : There is no dilution to the Basic Earnings per Equity Share as there are no dilutive potential equity shares.
Note 36 - Contingent liability and Commitments
36.1 Commitments
Particulars
a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account (in respect of tangible assets) and not  provided for
 
(net of advances Rs. 30 lakhs, March 31, 2024: Rs. 65 lakhs)
b)  Other Commitments
       - Fulfilment of Export obligation (refer Note below)
 146 
 143 
1,041 
 1,162 
As at
March 31, 2025
Note:  Relates to incremental export obligation to be fulfiled by the Company as a condition towards duty saved on property, 
plant and equipment imported under the Export Promotion Captial Goods Scheme. As per managment's estimate, the 
Company will be able to fulfill the balance obligation over the prescribed period of time i.e. upto March 31, 2026.
As at
March 31, 2024
36.2 The Group does not have any pending litigations that would impact its financial position as at March 31, 2025. 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
261
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
Note 37 - Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR)
(a) Details of CSR expenditure incurred during the year
Particulars
CUMI Centre for Skills Development - Skill Development Centre
 -   
25
Construction of School Building in and around Hosur
47
15
Local CSR Project, Primary Health centre and ESG related
8
31
Other facilities to schools
39
-
Total
94
71
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 38 - Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Development Act, 2006 ('MSMED Act')                                                                                                                         
Particulars
(i) 
Principal amount remaining unpaid to any supplier registered under 
 
 365 
 223 
end of each accounting year;
(ii)
Interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each accounting year; 
 -   
 -   
(iii) The amount of principal paid to suppliers registered under MSMED Act beyond the appointed 
 -   
 -   
day during the year;
(iv) The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED Act, along with  
-   
 -   
the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during the year; 
(v) The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which  
-   
 -   
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest  
specified under the MSMED Act;
(vi) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year; 
-   
 -   
(vii) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years,  
 -   
 -   
until such date when the interest dues above are actually paid to the small enterprise, for the 
purpose of diasllowance of a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED Act.
MSMED Act as at the
As at March
31, 2025
As at 
31, 2024
March
(i) Construction / acquisition of any asset
 -   
 -   
 -   
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above
       -  in 2024-25
94
 -   
94
       -  in 2023-24
71
 -   
71
(b) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year: Rs. 94 lakhs  (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 71 lakhs)
(c)  Amount spent by the Company during the year:
(d) Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act in respect of other than ongoing projects
Yet to be paid
 in cash
Total 
In cash
Particulars
-
-
 94 
 94 
 -   
-
-
 (71)
 (71)
 -   
Balance unspent 
as at April 01, 2024
Amount deposited in Specified
Fund of Schedule VII of the Act
within 6 months
Amount required
to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent
during the year
Balance 
unspent as at
March 31, 2025
Note: Figures in brackets represent amounts for the previous year.
262
Annual Report 2024-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 39 -  Research and Development Expenditure
Particulars
Revenue expenditure (refer Note below)
390
270
Capital expenditure (including capital work in progress)
166
28
Total
556
298
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Research and Development expenditure incurred during the year aggregates to Rs.556 lakhs (March 31, 2024: 
Rs. 298 lakhs) as detailed below:
Note 40 - Additional regulatory information required by Schedule III
(i) 
Details of benami property held: No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding 
benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
(ii) 
Wilful defaulter: The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
(iii) 
Relationship with struck off companies: The Group has no transactions with the companies struck off under Companies Act, 
2013 or Companies Act, 1956.
(iv) 
Compliance with number of layers of companies: The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(v) 
Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements: The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which 
has an accounting impact on current or previous financial year.
(vi)
(a) The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediaries shall:
a. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
b. provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
(vi)
(b) The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
a. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
b.  provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
(vii) There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
(viii) The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
(ix) 
The Group has not revalued its Property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the current or previous year.
(x) 
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Group is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, are held in the name 
of the Group.
(xi) 
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory 
period.
(xii) The Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rs.5 crores from banks on the basis of security of current 
assets. Refer Note 17 for details of quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company.
(xiii) The Group was not required to recognise any provision as at March 31, 2025 under the applicable law or accounting standards, 
as it does not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts. The Group did not have any derivative contracts as 
at March 31, 2025.
(xiv) The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Company is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
Note: Revenue expenditure shown above, inter alia,  includes depreciation of Rs. 69 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : 
Rs.65 lakhs),  consultancy services of Rs. 56 lakhs (March 31, 2024 : Rs. 15 lakhs) and travel expenditure of Rs.50 lakhs
(March 31, 2024 : Rs. 2 lakhs).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
263
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
Note 41
Additional information as required by Paragraph 2 of the General Instructions for Preparation of Consolidated
Financial Statements to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013
As % of 
Consolidated 
net assets
Amount    
As % of 
Consolidated
Profit
Amount    
As % of 
Consolidated
Profit
I. Parent
Wendt (India) Limited
90.18%
21,975
        
 
96.99%
3,829       (26.19%)
(55)
        
90.77%
3,774
II. Subsidiary
a) Foreign
1. Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd
11.01%
2,684
          
 
3.49%
138
-
            
 
-
           
 
3.31%
138
Inter-Company Elimination and 
Consolidation Adjustments
(1.19%)
(290)
(0.48%)
(19)
126.19%
265
5.92%
246
Total
100.00%
24,369
100.00%
3,948
100.00%
210
100.00%
4,158
March 31, 2025
Net assets i.e. total asset 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit 
or loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income 
Share in Total  
Comprehensive Income
Amount     
Name of the entity
Amount     
As % of 
Profit
Consolidated
As % of 
Consolidated 
net assets
Amount    
As % of 
Consolidated
Profit
Amount    
As % of 
Consolidated
Profit
I. Parent
Wendt (India) Limited
90.52%
19,201
        
 
96.46%
3,950       52.90%
(82)
        
98.17%
3868
II. Subsidiary
a) Foreign
1. Wendt Grinding Technologies Ltd
10.85%
2,302
          
 
4.00%
164
-
            
 
-
           
 
4.16%
164
Inter-Company Elimination and 
Consolidation Adjustments
(1.37%)
(292)
(0.46%)
(19)
47.10%
(73)
(2.33%)
(92)
Total
100.00%
21,211
100.00%
 4,095
100.00%
 (155)
100.00%
3,940
March 31, 2024
Net assets i.e. total asset 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit 
or loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income 
Share in Total  
Comprehensive Income
Amount     
Name of the entity
Amount     
As % of 
Profit
Consolidated
264
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
This note provides a list of other accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Consolidated financial 
statements to the extent they have not already been 
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain 
disclosed in the other notes above. These policies have 
or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated 
been consistently applied to all the years presented 
as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair 
unless otherwise stated.
value of the consideration received and the fair value 
of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying 
amount of the assets (including goodwill), and 
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and 
liabilities of the subsidiary. All amounts previously 
notes have been rounded off to the nearest lakhs, as 
recognised in other comprehensive income in 
per the requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise 
relation to that subsidiary (i.e.., reclassified to profit 
stated.
or loss or transferred to another category of equity as 
specified/permitted by applicable Ind AS). The fair 
value of any investment retained in the former 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate 
subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded 
the financial statements of the Company and entities 
as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent 
controlled by the Company. Control is achieved 
accounting under Ind AS 109.
when the Company:
•  has power over the investee
•  is exposed, or has rights , to variable return from its 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the 
involvement with the investee; and
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
controlling interests in the acquired business and the 
acquisition date fair value of any previous equity 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the 
interest in the acquired entity (if any), over the fair 
Company obtains control over the subsidiary and 
value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
ceases when the Company loses control of the 
subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is 
subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year 
incomplete by end of the reporting period in which the 
are included in the consolidated Statement of profit 
combination occurs, the Group reports provisional 
and loss from the date the Company gains control 
amounts for the items for which the accounting is 
until the date when the Company ceases to control 
incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
the subsidiary.
during the measurement period, or additional assets 
The Group combines the financial statements of the 
or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information 
parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding 
obtained about facts and circumstances that existed 
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
at the acquisition date that, if known, would have 
income and expenses. Intercompany transactions, 
affected the amounts recognised at that date.
balances and unrealized gains on transactions 
Goodwill arising on acquisition of a business is 
between group companies are eliminated. 
carried at costs as established at the date of 
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the 
acquisition of the business less accumulated 
transaction provides evidence of an impairment of 
impairment losses, if any.
the transferred asset.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually. For the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
accounting policies in line with the Group's 
those cash-generating units that are expected to 
accounting policies.
benefit from the business combination in which the 
Changes in the Group's ownership 
interest in existing subsidiaries
(a) Rounding Off
(b) Basis of consolidation
(c)  Goodwill
Note 42: Summary of other Accounting Policies
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
265
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of the cash-
disposal involving loss of control over the subsidiary), 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the 
all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity 
impairment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying 
in respect of that operation attributable to the owners 
amount of the goodwill. Any impairment loss 
of the Group are reclassified to profit or loss. In 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent 
addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary 
periods.
that includes a foreign operation that does not result in 
the Group losing control over the subsidiary, the 
proportionate share of accumulated exchange 
differences are re-attributed to non-controlling 
Items included in the financial statements of each of 
interests and are not recognised in profit or loss.
the Group's entities are measured using the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which the 
entity operates (i.e. the "functional currency"). The 
Consolidated financial statements are presented in 
Indian Rupee (INR), the national currency for India, 
which is functional and presentation currency of the 
Group.
Superannuation fund, Provident fund and Pension 
fund are defined contribution plans towards which the 
In preparing the financial statements of each 
Company makes contribution at predetermined rates 
individual group entity, transactions in currencies 
to the Superannuation Trust, and the Regional 
other than the entity's functional currency (foreign 
Provident Fund Commissioner respectively. The 
currency) are recognised at the rates of exchange 
same is debited to the Statement of Profit and Loss 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end 
based on the amount of contribution required to be 
of each reporting period, monetary items 
made as and when services are rendered by the 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at 
employees.
the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items 
carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign 
The Company also makes contributions to state plans 
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at 
namely Employee’s State Insurance Fund and 
the date when the fair value was determined. Non-
Employee’s Pension Scheme 1995. The Company 
monetary items that are measured in terms of 
has no further payment obligation once the 
historical cost in a foreign currency are not 
contributions have been paid.
retranslated.
For the purposes of presenting these consolidated 
financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the 
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in 
Group's foreign operations are translated into Indian 
respect of defined benefit gratuity plan is the present 
Rupees using exchange rates prevailing at the end of 
value of the defined obligation at the end of the 
each reporting period. Income and expense items are 
reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The 
translated at the average exchange rates for the 
defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The 
during that period, in which case the exchange rates 
amount is funded to a Gratuity fund administered by 
at the dates of transactions are used. Exchange 
the trustees of  'M/s. Wendt (India) Limited Employees 
differences arising, if any, are recognised in other 
Group Gratuity Trust' and managed by Life Insurance 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity 
Corporation of India.
(and attributed to non-controlling interests as 
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gain and 
appropriate).
losses arising from experience adjustments and 
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. disposal of 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in 
the Group's entire interest in a foreign operation, a 
the period in which they occur directly in consolidated 
(d)  Foreign currency transactions
(e)  Employee benefits
(i) Long Term Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Plans
Defined Benefit Plan
266
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
other comprehensive income. They are included in 
retained earnings in the consolidated statement of 
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current 
changes in equity and in the consolidated Balance 
tax payable and deferred tax. Income tax expense is 
Sheet. Defined benefit costs are categorised  as 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss except to 
follows :
the extent it relates to items directly recognized in 
•  service cost (including current service cost, past 
equity or in other comprehensive income.
service cost, as well as gains and losses on 
curtailments and settlements);
• net interest expense or income;
Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be 
• remeasurement
recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities 
based on the taxable income for the period. The tax 
rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax 
amount are those that are enacted by the reporting 
date and applicable for the period. The Group offsets 
The Company also has liabilities for earned leave that are 
current tax assets and current tax liabilities, where it 
not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after 
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized 
the end of the period in which the employees render the 
amounts and where it intends either to settle on a net 
related service. These obligations are therefore 
measured as the present value of expected future 
basis or to realize the asset and liability 
simultaneously.
payments to be made in respect of services provided by 
employees up to the end of the reporting period using the 
projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted 
using the appropriate market yields at the end of the 
Deferred tax is recognized using the Balance Sheet 
reporting period that have terms approximating to the 
approach. Deferred Tax assets and liabilities are 
terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements as a 
recognized for deductible and taxable temporary 
result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and 
assumptions are recognised in the Statement of profit or 
liabilities and their carrying amount in consolidated 
loss.
financial statements. However, the deferred tax 
liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the 
balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional 
recognition of goodwill or from initial recognition of an 
right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
the reporting period, regardless of when the actual 
combination and affects neither accounting nor 
settlement is expected to occur.
taxable profits or losses at the time of the 
transaction.
Termination benefits are recognized as an expense as 
and when incurred.
Deferred tax asset are recognized to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and the 
carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax 
Short term employee benefits including performance 
losses can be utilized.
incentives which are expected to be settled within 12 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable 
months after the end of the period in which the employee 
temporary differences other than investment in 
renders related service, are determined as per the 
subsidiaries, where the Parent is able to control the 
Group's policy and recognized as expense based on 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it 
expected obligation on undiscounted basis.                                                                                                                                               
is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
(f) Taxation
(i)  Current tax
Other Long Term Employee Benefits - 
Compensated Absences
(ii)  Deferred tax 
(ii)  Short-term employee benefits
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
267
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the 
Items of assets which are not yet ready for their 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
intended use are carried at cost, comprising direct 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
cost, related incidental expenses and attributable 
deferred tax asset to be utilized.
interest, if any.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when 
the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on 
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment has 
tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
been provided on the straight-line method as above 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
based on technical advice, taking into account the 
nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, 
the operating conditions of the asset, past history of 
Goods and Services Tax (GST) credit on materials 
replacement, anticipated technological changes, 
manufacturers warranties and maintenance support, 
purchased / services availed for production / input 
services are taken into account at the time of purchase 
etc.
and availing services. GST Credit on purchase of 
Depreciation on assets added / disposed off during 
capital goods wherever applicable are taken into 
the year is provided on pro-rata basis from the month 
account as and when the assets are acquired. The 
of addition or up to the month prior to the month of 
GST credits so availed are utilised for payment of GST 
disposal, as applicable.
on outward supply and service. The unutilised GST 
credit is carried forward in the books.
Individual assets costing less than Rs.5,000 each are 
depreciated in full in the year of acquisition.
An item of property, plant and equipment is 
The cost of Property, Plant and equipment comprises 
derecognised upon disposal or when no future 
its purchase price net of any trade discounts and 
economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
rebates, any import duties and other taxes (other than 
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
those subsequently recoverable from the tax 
the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant 
authorities), any directly attributable expenditure on 
and equipment is determined as the difference 
making the asset ready for its intended use, other 
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
incidental expenses and interest on borrowings 
of the asset and is recognised in consolidated 
attributable to acquisition of qualifying assets up to 
statement of profit or loss.
the date the asset is ready for its intended use. 
Machinery spares which can be used exclusively  in 
connection with an item of Property, Plant and 
equipment and whose use is expected to be irregular 
are capitalised and depreciated over the useful life of 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are 
the principal item of the relevant assets. Subsequent 
acquired separately are carried at cost less 
costs are included in the asset's carrying amount are 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits 
impairment losses, if any. The estimated useful life 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the 
and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The 
each reporting period, with the effect of any changes 
carrying amount of any component accounted for as a 
in estimate being accounted for on a prospective 
separate asset is derecognised when replaced. All 
basis.
other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or 
loss during the reporting period in which they are 
incurred.
Capital work-in-progress
Depreciation
(iii)  Indirect taxes
(g)  Property, Plant and equipment
(h)  Intangible assets
Intangible assets (acquired)
268
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
(i) Impairment of Property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets other 
than goodwill
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
(l) Provisions and Contingencies
(j) Inventories
inventories also include all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to the present location and 
condition. Cost is computed on weighted average 
basis.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews 
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
the carrying amounts of its Property, plant and 
price for inventories less the estimated costs of 
equipment and intangible assets to determine 
completion and estimated costs necessary to make 
whether there is any indication that those assets have 
the sale.
suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication 
Provisions are made for potential obsolescence 
exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is 
based on management assessment of aged inventory 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
items. 
impairment loss (if any). When it is not possible to 
estimate the recoverable amount of an individual 
asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, 
When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation 
deposits held at call with financial institutions, other 
can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated 
short term, highly liquid investments with maturity of 3 
to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they 
months or less that are readily convertible into known 
are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating 
amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation 
insignificant risk of changes in values, and bank 
basis can be identified. 
overdrafts.
Recoverable amount is higher of fair value less cost of 
Statement of Cash flows are reported using the 
disposal and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
indirect method, whereby profit for the period is 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future 
reflects current market assessments of the time value 
operating cash receipts or payments and item of 
of money and the risks specific to the asset for which 
income or expenses associated with investing or 
the estimates of future cash flows have not been 
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, 
adjusted.
investing and financing activities of the Group are 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-
segregated.
generating unit) is estimated to be less than its 
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset(or 
cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a results 
immediately in the Statement of profit or loss
of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
Such assets, that suffered an impairment, are 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the 
end of each reporting period.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle 
present obligation at the end of reporting period, 
taking into account the risk and uncertainties 
Inventories are valued  at lower of cost and net 
surrounding the obligation.  When a provision is 
realizable value.  Cost of raw materials, stores and 
measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the 
spares and traded goods comprises cost of 
present obligation, its carrying amount is the present 
purchases. Cost of work-in-progress and finished 
value of those cash flows (when the effect of the time 
goods comprises direct materials, direct labour, and 
value of money is material).
an appropriate proportion of overheads. Cost of 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
269
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
When some or all of the economic benefits required 
All recognised financial assets are subsequently 
measured in their entirety at either amortized cost or 
to settle a provision are expected to be recovered 
fair value, depending on the classification of the 
from a third party,  a receivable is recognised as an 
asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will 
financial assets.
be received and  the amount of receivable can be 
measured reliably.
Financial Assets that meet the following conditions 
A disclosure for contingent liabilities is made where 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
(except for financial assets that are designated as 
that may probably not require an outflow of 
fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition):
resources or where there is an obligation for which 
the future outcome cannot be ascertained with 
 •  
the asset is held within business model whose 
reasonable certainty. When there is a possible or a 
objective is to hold assets in order to collect 
present obligation where the likelihood of outflow of 
contractual cash flows; and
resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is 
made.
•  
the contractual terms of the instruments give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
Contingent assets are not recognized in the 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
consolidated financial statements.
principal and interest  on the principal amount 
outstanding.
Financial assets are presented as current assets, 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
except for those maturing later than 12 months after 
recognised when the Group becomes a party to the 
the reporting date which are presented as non-
contractual provision of the instruments.
current assets. Financial assets are measured 
Financial assets (excluding trade receivables which 
initially at fair value plus transaction costs and 
do not contain a significant financing component) 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the 
and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair 
effective interest method, less any impairment loss.
value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and 
Amortised cost are represented by security deposits, 
financial liabilities (other than financial assets and 
cash and cash equivalents and eligible current and 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) 
non-current assets. Cash and cash equivalent 
are added to or deducted from the fair value of the 
comprise cash on hand and in banks and demand 
financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, 
deposit with banks which can be withdrawn at any 
on initial recognition. Transactions costs directly 
time without prior notice or penalty on the principal.
attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
For the impairment policy on financial assets 
are recognised immediately in the Statement of profit 
measured at amortised cost, refer Note 42(n)(iii).
or loss.
Financial assets that meet the following conditions 
are subsequently measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (except for financial 
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets 
assets that are designated as fair value through 
are recognised and derecognised on a trade date 
profit or loss on initial recognition) :
basis. Regular way purchases or sales are 
purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
•  
the asset is held within a business model whose 
delivery of assets within the time frame established 
objective is achieved both by collecting 
by regulation or convention in the market place.
contractual cash flows and selling financial 
assets; and
(i)  Classification of financial assets
(m) Financial instruments
(n) Financial assets
270
Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
•  
the contractual terms of the instruments give rise on 
financial instrument  has not increased significantly 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
since initial recognition, the Group measures the 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
loss allowance for that financial instruments at an 
and interest  on the principal amount outstanding.
amount equal to 12 month expected credit losses. 
12 month expected credit losses are portion of the 
lifetime expected credit losses and represents the 
lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if default 
occurs within the 12 months after the reporting date 
and thus, are not cash shortfalls that are predicted 
FVTPL is a residual category for financial assets. 
over the 12 months.
Any financial categorisation which is not at 
amortised cost or as FVTOCI, is classified at FVTPL. 
In addition, the Group may elect to designate the 
financial asset, which otherwise meets amortised 
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
cost or FVTOCI criteria, at FVTPL, if doing so 
services provided to the Group prior to the end of the 
eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement 
financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are 
or recognition inconsistency.
unsecured and are usually paid within 60 days of 
recognition based on the agreed credit period. Trade 
and other payables are presented as current 
liabilities unless payment is not due within 12 
The Group measures the loss allowance for a 
months after the reporting period. They are 
financial instrument at an amount equal to the 
recognised initially at their transaction price and 
lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
that financial instrument has increased significantly 
effective interest method, if applicable.
since initial recognition. If the credit risk on a 
(ii) Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL)
(o) Trade and other payables
(iii) Impairment of financial assets
Note 43 - Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on April 23, 2025.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Firm Registration Number : 012754N/N500016
Jagadeesh Sridharan
Partner
Membership Number : 217038
Sridharan Rangarajan
Director
DIN:01814413
Place : Chennai
Ninad Gadgil
Executive Director & CEO
DIN: 08707884
Place : Hosur
Place 
Date 
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Chief Financial Officer
Place : Hosur
Arjun Raj P
Company Secretary
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
: Bengaluru
: April 23, 2025
Date : April 23, 2025
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
271
rd
43  Annual Report 24-25
(Rs. in Lakhs)
FORM AOC-I
Statement containing salient features of the Financial Statement of Subsidiaries
Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
31-3-2025
31-3-2024
Share capital
653
              
591
                  
Reserves and surplus
2,031
           
1,710
               
Total liabilities *
2,964
           
2,559
               
Total assets**
2,386
           
2,046
               
Details of current and non-current investments (except investment in subsidiary) 
578
              
514
                  
Turnover
2,154
           
2,146
               
Profit before taxation
172
              
205
                  
Provision for taxation 
34
                
41
                  
Profit after taxation
138
              
164
                  
Proposed dividend
-
               
-
                  
% of Shareholding
100
100
Wendt Grinding Technologies 
Ltd
(WGTL)
Incorporated on July 19, 2005
* Total Liabilities include : Share capital of subsidiary + Non current liabilities + current liabilities
** Total Assets include: Non Current Assets and Current Assets. (excluding current and non-current investments)
The exchange rates used are as below:
Notes:
a) The Consolidated Ind AS financial statements has been prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles laid down in 
Indian Accounting Standards, prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
b) The above information has been furnished in accordance with Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013. The above statement is based on the 
financial statements of the respective subsidiary company which have been prepared in accordance with regulatory requirements as applicable in 
the country of incorporation.
Currency
Balance Sheet(Closing Rate)
Statement of Profit 
and Loss(Average Rate)
31-3-2025
31-3-2024
31-3-2024
31-3-2025
THB (WGTL)
2.535
2.297
2.428
2.351
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sridharan Rangarajan
Director
DIN:01814413
Place : Chennai
Ninad Gadgil
Executive Director & CEO
DIN: 08707884
Place : Hosur
Mukesh Kumar Hamirwasia
Chief Financial Officer
Place : Hosur
Arjun Raj P
Company Secretary
Membership Number: A30324
Place : Chennai
Date : April 23, 2025
272
Annual Report 2024-25
Dental
Semiconductor
Industry
Research & Development
Bio Medical
Aerospace
3D Printing for High Performance Ceramics
Ceramics Additive Manufacturing
OELHELD Products
<i)W£NDF 
GRINDING FLUIDS 
High-Performance LuBricants 
for Tool Production 
M • nuf.ctu .. 
r • pp.ov• ls 
-------- • 
,._ <t» ~<=e <::::'D -
~ 
.B!: -
-B-- G'~ 
Q~MS "!•Hu 
_-~----
= 
......... 
~tH-l.Is~ 
AQUATEC 
Water soluBle coolants 
DIAGRIND SERIES 
Oil for production of gears 
LITH Z 
oe.lhe.ld. 
innovative fluid technology 
IONOGRIND 
Dielectric for 
rotary erosion and grinding 
DIELECTRICS 
Fluids for EDM Machines 
I • 
--
·" 
Awards & Accolades
EHS Excellence Award
Safety Day Award 
Award from Customer
under Value Category
Best Supplier Award for Special Projects
from one of our esteemed Customer
OEM Recognition Award
CFO of the year 2024 Award by NXTGEN 
CFO 100 Roll of Honor 2025 award
Awards & Accolades
5S Champions and Quarterly Awards
Team Awards
Long Service Awards
Exhibitions
 IMTEX 2025
®WIENDr 0 
ENiiiNEEiliiD ~'1lR 
PRECISION AND PER!'ORMnNCE 
.WENDI'--
A Fond Welcome
A Fond Welcome
Tree Plantation with Customer
Customer Visit
CUFEST 2024
Events
.WENDJ'._
Events
Technical Seminars
First Aid Training  
Mock Drill Training
Events
Kick-off Meet
.WENDJ'._
Events
Engineers Day Celebration
Wendt is an Engineer’s Engineer
Events
Communication Meeting
Employee farewell
.WENDJ'._
Social Events
World Environment Day Celebration 
International Yoga Day Celebration
Inauguration Pooja at Plant
Republic day Celebration
Social Events
Women's Day Celebration
Independence Day Celebration
.WENDJ'._
Social Events
New Building Inauguration Pooja
Christmas Celebration
Blood Donation Camp
Social Events
Anniversary Pooja
Ayudha Pooja Celebration
Social Events
Pongal Celebration
Employee Wellness Initiative Program
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
CSR Spend over the year (Rs Lakhs)
Education
92%
Healthcare
8%
2024-25
Rs 94.3 L
94.3
70.5
43.7
32.1
32.0
34.5
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
Theme wise Beneficiaries FY 2024-25 
Appreciation from TN Govt.
Notes:
Notes:
